Mar. 3, 2025
Title 20
Employees' Benefits
Parts 400 to 499
Revised as of April 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of April 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 20:
Chapter III—Social Security Administration
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
1359
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
1379
Chapter III Index
1389
List of CFR Sections Affected
1399
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
20 CFR 401.5
refers to title 20, part 401, section 5.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, April 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is in fact available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or call 202-741-6010.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
April 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 20—
Employees' Benefits
is composed of four volumes. The first volume, containing parts 1-399, includes current regulations issued by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor and the Railroad Retirement Board. The second volume, containing parts 400-499, includes all current regulations issued by the Social Security Administration. The third volume, containing parts 500 to 656, includes current regulations issued by the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, and the Employment and Training Administration. The fourth volume, containing part 657 to End, includes the current regulations issued by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, the Benefits Review Board, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (all of the Department of Labor) and the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of April 1, 2025.
An index to chapter III appears in the second volume.
For this volume, Cheryl E. Sirofchuck was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
20 CFR Ch. III (4-1-25 Edition)
Social Security Administration

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
(This book contains parts 400 to 499)
Part
chapter iii
—Social Security Administration
401

# CHAPTER III—SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
Part
Page
400
[Reserved]
401
Privacy and disclosure of official records and information
5
402
Availability of information and records to the public
26
403
Testimony by employees and the production of records and information in legal proceedings
44
404
Federal old-age, survivors and disability insurance (1950- )
48
405
[Reserved]
408
Special benefits for certain World War II veterans
728
411
The Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program
769
416
Supplemental security income for the aged, blind, and disabled
809
418
Medicare subsidies
1190
422
Organization and procedures
1236
423
Service of process
1303
424-428
[Reserved]
429
Administrative claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act and related statutes
1304
430
Personnel
1314
431
Protection of human subjects
1315
432-437
[Reserved]
438
Restrictions on lobbying
1333
440-497
[Reserved]
498
Civil monetary penalties, assessments and recommended exclusions
1342
499
[Reserved]
PART 400 [RESERVED]
Pt. 401

# PART 401—PRIVACY AND DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL RECORDS AND INFORMATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
401.5
Purpose of the regulations.
401.10
Applicability.
401.15
Limitations on scope.
401.20
Scope.
401.25
Terms defined.

# Subpart B—The Privacy Act
401.30
Privacy Act and other responsibilities.
401.35
Your right to request records.
401.40
How to get your own records.
401.45
Verifying your identity.
401.50
Granting notification of or access to a record.
401.55
Access to medical records.
401.60
Access to or notification of program records about more than one individual.
401.65
How to correct your record.
401.70
Appeals of refusals to correct records or refusals to allow access to records.
401.75
Rights of parents or legal guardians.
401.80
Accounting for disclosures.
401.85
Exempt systems.
401.90
Contractors.
401.95
Fees.

# Subpart C—Disclosure of Official Records and Information
401.100
Disclosure of records with the written consent of the subject of the record.
401.105
Disclosure of personal information without the consent of the subject of the record.
401.110
Disclosure of personal information in nonprogram records without the consent of the subject of the record.
401.115
Disclosure of personal information in program records without the consent of the subject of the record.
401.120
Disclosures required by law.
401.125
Disclosures prohibited by law.
401.130
Freedom of Information Act.
401.135
Other laws.
401.140
General principles.
401.145
Safeguards against unauthorized redisclosure or use.
401.150
Compatible purposes.
401.155
Law enforcement purposes.
401.160
Health or safety.
401.165
Statistical and research activities.
401.170
Congress.
401.175
Government Accountability Office.
401.180
Disclosure under court order or other legal process.
401.185
Other specific recipients.
401.190
Deceased persons.
401.195
Situations not specified in this part.
401.200
Blood donor locator service.
Appendix A to Part 401—Employee Standards of Conduct

# Authority:
Secs. 205, 702(a)(5), 1106, and 1141 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405, 902(a)(5), 1306, and 1320b-11); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a; 8 U.S.C. 1360; 26 U.S.C. 6103; 30 U.S.C. 923.

# Source:
62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 401.5
Purpose of the regulations.
(a)
General.
The purpose of this part is to describe the Social Security Administration (SSA) policies and procedures for implementing the requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a and section 1106 of the Social Security Act concerning disclosure of information about individuals, both with and without their consent. This part also complies with other applicable statutes.
(b)
Privacy.
This part implements the Privacy Act by establishing agency policies and procedures for the maintenance of records. This part also establishes agency policies and procedures under which you can ask us whether we maintain records about you or obtain access to your records. Additionally, this part establishes policies and procedures under which you may seek to have your record corrected or amended if you believe that your record is not accurate, timely, complete, or relevant.
(c)
Disclosure.
This part also sets out the general guidelines which we follow in deciding whether to make disclosures. However, we must examine the facts of each case separately to decide if we should disclose the information or keep it confidential.
§ 401.10
Applicability.
(a)
SSA.
All SSA employees and components are governed by this part. SSA employees governed by this part include all regular and special government employees of SSA; experts and consultants whose temporary (not in
excess of 1 year) or intermittent services have been procured by SSA by contract pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109; volunteers where acceptance of their services are authorized by law; those individuals performing gratuitous services as permitted under conditions prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management; and, participants in work-study or training programs.
(b)
Other entities.
This part also applies to advisory committees and councils within the meaning of the Federal Advisory Committee Act which provide advice to: Any official or component of SSA; or the President and for which SSA has been delegated responsibility for providing services.
§ 401.15
Limitations on scope.
The regulations in this part do not—
(a) Make available to an individual records which are not retrieved by that individual's name or other personal identifier.
(b) Make available to the general public records which are retrieved by an individual's name or other personal identifier or make available to the general public records which would otherwise not be available to the general public under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and part 402 of this title.
(c) Govern the maintenance or disclosure of, notification about or access to, records in the possession of SSA which are subject to the regulations of another agency, such as personnel records which are part of a system of records administered by the Office of Personnel Management.
(d) Apply to grantees, including State and local governments or subdivisions thereof, administering federally funded programs.
(e) Make available records compiled by SSA in reasonable anticipation of court litigation or formal administrative proceedings. The availability of such records to the general public or to any subject individual or party to such litigation or proceedings shall be governed by applicable constitutional principles, rules of discovery, and applicable regulations of the agency.
§ 401.20
Scope.
(a)
Access.
Sections 401.30 through 401.95, which set out SSA's rules for implementing the Privacy Act, apply to records retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier subject to the Privacy Act. The rules in §§ 401.30 through 401.95 also apply to information developed by medical sources for the Social Security program and shall not be accessed except as permitted by this part.
(b)
Disclosure
—(1)
Program records.
Regulations that apply to the disclosure of information about an individual contained in SSA's program records are set out in §§ 401.100 through 401.200 of this part. These regulations also apply to the disclosure of other Federal program information which SSA maintains. That information includes:
(i) Health insurance records which SSA maintains for the Health Care Financing Administration's (HCFA) programs under title XVIII of the Social Security Act. We will disclose these records to HCFA. HCFA may redisclose these records under the regulations applying to records in HCFA's custody;
(ii) Black lung benefit records which SSA maintains for the administration of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act; (However, this information is not covered by section 1106 of the Social Security Act.) and
(iii) Information retained by medical sources pertaining to a consultative examination performed for the Social Security program shall not be disclosed except as permitted by this part.
(2)
Nonprogram records.
Section 401.110 sets out rules applicable to the disclosure of nonprogram records, e.g., SSA's administrative and personnel records.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 16812, Mar. 30, 2000; 72 FR 20939, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.25
Terms defined.
Access
means making a record available to a subject individual.
Act
means the Social Security Act.
Agency
means the Social Security Administration.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security.
Disclosure
means making a record about an individual available to or releasing it to another party.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act.
Individual
when used in connection with the Privacy Act or for disclosure of nonprogram records, means a living person who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. It does not include persons such as sole proprietorships, partnerships, or corporations. A business firm which is identified by the name of one or more persons is not an individual. When used in connection with the rules governing program information,
individual
means a living natural person; this does not include corporations, partnerships, and unincorporated business or professional groups of two or more persons.
Information
means information about an individual, and includes, but is not limited to, vital statistics; race, sex, or other physical characteristics; earnings information; professional fees paid to an individual and other financial information; benefit data or other claims information; the social security number, employer identification number, or other individual identifier; address; phone number; medical information, including psychological or psychiatric information or lay information used in a medical determination; and information about marital and family relationships and other personal relationships.
Maintain
means to establish, collect, use, or disseminate when used in connection with the term
record
; and, to have control over or responsibility for a system of records when used in connection with the term
system of records.
Notification
means communication to an individual whether he is a subject individual. (
Subject individual
is defined further on in this section.)
Program information
means personal information and records collected and compiled by SSA in order to discharge its responsibilities under titles I, II, IV part A, X, XI, XIV, XVI and XVIII of the Act and parts B and C of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act.
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by SSA including, but not limited to, information such as an individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history that contains the individual's name, or an identifying number, symbol, or any other means by which an individual can be identified. When used in this part, record means only a record which is in a system of records.
Routine use
means the disclosure of a record outside SSA, without the consent of the subject individual, for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected. It includes disclosures required to be made by statutes other than the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. It does not include disclosures which the Privacy Act otherwise permits without the consent of the subject individual and without regard to whether they are compatible with the purpose for which the information is collected, such as disclosures to the Bureau of the Census, the General Accounting Office, or to Congress.
Social Security Administration (SSA)
means (1) that Federal agency which has administrative responsibilities under titles, I, II, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and XVIII of the Act; and (2) units of State governments which make determinations under agreements made under sections 221 and 1633 of the Act.
Social Security program
means any program or provision of law which SSA is responsible for administering, including the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act. This includes our responsibilities under parts B and C of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act.
Statistical record
means a record maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not maintained to make determinations about a particular subject individual.
Subject individual
means the person to whom a record pertains.
System of records
means a group of records under our control from which information about an individual is retrieved by the name of the individual or by an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular. Single records or groups of records which are not retrieved by a personal identifier are not part of a system of records. Papers maintained by individual Agency employees which are prepared, maintained, or discarded at the discretion of the employee and which are not subject
to the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. 2901, are not part of a system of records; provided, that such personal papers are not used by the employee or the Agency to determine any rights, benefits, or privileges of individuals.
We
and
our
mean the Social Security Administration.

# Subpart B—The Privacy Act
§ 401.30
Privacy Act and other responsibilities.
(a)
Policy.
Our policy is to protect the privacy of individuals to the fullest extent possible while nonetheless permitting the exchange of records required to fulfill our administrative and program responsibilities, and responsibilities for disclosing records which the general public is entitled to have under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and 20 CFR part 402.
(b)
Maintenance of records.
We will maintain no record unless:
(1) It is relevant and necessary to accomplish an SSA function which is required to be accomplished by statute or Executive Order;
(2) We obtain the information in the record, as much as it is practicable, from the subject individual if we may use the record to determine an individual's rights, benefits or privileges under Federal programs;
(3) We inform the individual providing the record to us of the authority for our asking him or her to provide the record (including whether providing the record is mandatory or voluntary, the principal purpose for maintaining the record, the routine uses for the record, and what effect his or her refusal to provide the record may have on him or her). Further, the individual agrees to provide the record, if the individual is not required by statute or Executive Order to do so.
(c)
First Amendment rights.
We will keep no record which describes how an individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless we are expressly authorized:
(1) By statute,
(2) By the subject individual, or
(3) Unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.
(d)
Privacy Officer.
The Privacy Officer is an advisor to the Agency on all privacy policy and disclosure matters. The Privacy Officer coordinates the development and implementation of Agency privacy policies and related legal requirements to ensure Privacy Act compliance, and monitors the coordination, collection, maintenance, use and disclosure of personal information. The Privacy Officer also ensures the integration of privacy principles into information technology systems architecture and technical designs, and generally provides to Agency officials policy guidance and directives in carrying out the privacy and disclosure policy.
(e)
Senior Agency Official for Privacy.
The Senior Agency Official for Privacy assumes overall responsibility and accountability for ensuring the agency's implementation of information privacy protections as well as agency compliance with federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to the privacy of information, such as the Privacy Act. The compliance efforts also include reviewing information privacy procedures to ensure that they are comprehensive and up-to-date and, where additional or revised procedures may be called for, working with the relevant agency offices in the consideration, adoption, and implementation of such procedures. The official also ensures that agency employees and contractors receive appropriate training and education programs regarding the information privacy laws, regulations, polices and procedures governing the agency's handling of personal information. In addition to the compliance role, the official has a central policy-making role in the agency's development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory and other policy proposals which might implicate information privacy issues, including those relating to the collection, use, sharing, and disclosure of personal information.
(f)
Privacy Impact Assessment.
In our comprehensive Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) review process, we incorporate the tenets of privacy law, SSA privacy regulations, and privacy policy directly into the development of certain Information Technology projects. Our review examines the risks and
ramifications of collecting, maintaining and disseminating information in identifiable form in an electronic information system and identifies and evaluates protections and alternate processes to reduce the risk of unauthorized disclosures. As we accomplish the PIA review, we ask systems personnel and program personnel to resolve questions on data needs and data protection prior to the development of the electronic system.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20939, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.35
Your right to request records.
The Privacy Act gives you the right to direct access to most records about yourself that are in our systems of records. Exceptions to this Privacy Act right include—
(a) Special procedures for access to certain medical records (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(3) and § 401.55);
(b) Unavailability of certain criminal law enforcement records (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(k), and § 401.85); and
(c) Unavailability of records compiled in reasonable anticipation of a court action or formal administrative proceeding.

# Note to § 401.35:
The Freedom of Information Act (see 20 CFR part 402) allows you to request information from SSA whether or not it is in a system of records.
§ 401.40
How to get your own records.
(a)
Your right to notification and access.
Subject to the provisions governing medical records in § 401.55, you may ask for notification of or access to any record about yourself that is in an SSA system of records. If you are a minor, you may get information about yourself under the same rules as for an adult. Under the Privacy Act, if you are the parent or guardian of a minor, or the legal guardian of someone who has been declared legally incompetent, and you are acting on his or her behalf, you may ask for information about that individual. You may be accompanied by another individual of your choice when you request access to a record in person,
provided
that you affirmatively authorize the presence of such other individual during any discussion of a record to which you are requesting access.
(b)
Identifying the records.
At the time of your request, you must specify which systems of records you wish to have searched and the records to which you wish to have access. You may also request copies of all or any such records. Also, we may ask you to provide sufficient particulars to enable us to distinguish between records on individuals with the same name. The necessary particulars are set forth in the notices of systems of records which are published in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Requesting notification or access.
To request notification of or access to a record, you may visit your local social security office or write to the manager of the SSA system of records. The name and address of the manager of the system is part of the notice of systems of records. Every local social security office keeps a copy of the
Federal Register
containing that notice. That office can also help you get access to your record. You do not need to use any special form to ask for a record about you in our files, but your request must give enough identifying information about the record you want to enable us to find your particular record. This identifying information should include the system of records in which the record is located and the name and social security number (or other identifier) under which the record is filed. We do not honor requests for all records, all information, or similar blanket requests. Before granting notification of or access to a record, we may, if you are making your request in person, require you to put your request in writing if you have not already done so.
§ 401.45
Verifying your identity.
(a)
When required.
Unless you are making a request for notification of or access to a record in person, and you are personally known to the SSA representative, you must verify your identity in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section if:
(1) You make a request for notification of a record and we determine that the mere notice of the existence of the record would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of privacy if disclosed to someone other than the subject individual; or,
(2) You make a request for access to a record which is not required to be disclosed to the general public under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and part 402 of this chapter.
(b)
Manner of verifying identity
—(1)
Request in person.
If you make a request to us in person, you must provide at least one piece of tangible identification such as a driver's license, passport, alien or voter registration card, or union card to verify your identity. If you do not have identification papers to verify your identity, you must certify in writing that you are the individual who you claim to be and that you understand that the knowing and willful request for or acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense.
(2)
Request by telephone.
If you make a request by telephone, you must verify your identity by providing identifying particulars which parallel the record to which notification or access is being sought. If we determine that the particulars provided by telephone are insufficient, you will be required to submit your request in writing or in person. We will not accept telephone requests where an individual is requesting notification of or access to sensitive records such as medical records.
(3)
Electronic requests.
If you make a request by computer or other electronic means, e.g., over the Internet, we require you to verify your identity by using identity confirmation procedures that are commensurate with the sensitivity of the information that you are requesting. If we cannot confirm your identity using our identity confirmation procedures, we will not process the electronic request. When you cannot verify your identity through our procedures, we will require you to submit your request in writing.
(4)
Electronic disclosures.
When we collect or provide personally identifiable information over open networks such as the Internet, we use encryption in all of our automated online transaction systems to protect the confidentiality of the information. When we provide an online access option, such as a standard e-mail comment form on our Web site, and encryption is not being used, we alert you that personally identifiable information (such as your social security number) should not be included in your message.
(5)
Requests not made in person.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) of this section, if you do not make a request in person, you must submit a written request to SSA to verify your identify or you must certify in your request that you are the individual you claim to be. You must also sign a statement that you understand that the knowing and willful request for or acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense.
(6)
Requests on behalf of another.
If you make a request on behalf of a minor or legal incompetent as authorized under § 401.40, you must verify your relationship to the minor or legal incompetent, in addition to verifying your own identity, by providing a copy of the minor's birth certificate, a court order, or other competent evidence of guardianship to SSA; except that you are not required to verify your relationship to the minor or legal incompetent when you are not required to verify your own identity or when evidence of your relationship to the minor or legal incompetent has been previously given to SSA.
(7)
Medical records—additional verification.
You need to further verify your identity if you are requesting notification of or access to sensitive records such as medical records. Any information for further verification must parallel the information in the record to which notification or access is being sought. Such further verification may include such particulars as the date or place of birth, names of parents, name of employer or the specific times the individual received medical treatment.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20939, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.50
Granting notification of or access to a record.
(a)
General.
Subject to the provisions governing medical records in § 401.55 and the provisions governing exempt systems in § 401.85, upon receipt of your request for notification of or access to
a record and verification of your identity, we will review your request and grant notification or access to a record, if you are the subject of the record.
(b)
Our delay in responding.
If we determine that we will have to delay responding to your request because of the number of requests we are processing, a breakdown of equipment, shortage of personnel, storage of records in other locations, etc., we will so inform you and tell you when notification or access will be granted.
§ 401.55
Access to medical records.
(a)
General.
You have a right to access your medical records, including any psychological information that we maintain.
(b)
Medical records procedures
—(1)
Notification of or access to medical records.
(i) You may request notification of or access to a medical record pertaining to you. Unless you are a parent or guardian requesting notification of or access to a minor's medical record, you must make a request for a medical record in accordance with this section and the procedures in §§ 401.45 through 401.50 of this part.
(ii) When you request medical information about yourself, you must also name a representative in writing. The representative may be a physician, other health professional, or other responsible individual who will be willing to review the record and inform you of its contents. Following the discussion, you are entitled to your records. The representative does not have the discretion to withhold any part of your record. If you do not designate a representative, we may decline to release the requested information. In some cases, it may be possible to release medical information directly to you rather than to your representative.
(2)
Utilization of the designated representative.
You will be granted direct access to your medical record if we can determine that direct access is not likely to have an adverse effect on you. If we believe that we are not qualified to determine, or if we do determine, that direct access to you is likely to have an adverse effect, the record will be sent to the designated representative. We will inform you in writing that the record has been sent.
(c)
Medical records of minors
—(1)
Request by the minor.
You may request access to your own medical records in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Requests on a minor's behalf; notification of or access to medical records to an individual on a minor's behalf.
(i) To protect the privacy of a minor, we will not give to a parent or guardian direct notification of or access to a minor's record, even though the parent or guardian who requests such notification or access is authorized to act on a minor's behalf as provided in § 401.75 of this part.
(ii) A parent or guardian must make all requests for notification of or access to a minor's medical record in accordance with this paragraph and the procedures in §§ 401.45 through 401.50 of this part. A parent or guardian must at the time he or she makes a request designate a family physician or other health professional (other than a family member) to whom the record, if any, will be sent. If the parent or guardian will not designate a representative, we will decline to release the requested information.
(iii) Where a medical record on the minor exists, we will in all cases send it to the physician or health professional designated by the parent or guardian. The representative will review the record, discuss its contents with the parent or legal guardian, then release the entire record to the parent or legal guardian. The representative does not have the discretion to withhold any part of the minor's record. We will respond in the following similar manner to the parent or guardian making the request: “We have completed processing your request for notification of or access to _____'s (Name of minor) medical records. Please be informed that if any medical record was found pertaining to that individual, it has been sent to your designated physician or health professional.”
(iv) In each case where we send a minor's medical record to a physician or health professional, we will make reasonable efforts to inform the minor that we have given the record to the representative.
(3)
Requests on behalf of an incapacitated adult.
If you are the legal guardian of an adult who has been declared legally incompetent, you may receive his or her records directly.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20939, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.60
Access to or notification of program records about more than one individual.
When information about more than one individual is in one record filed under your social security number, you may receive the information about you and the fact of entitlement and the amount of benefits payable to other persons based on your record. You may receive information about yourself or others, which is filed under someone else's social security number, if that information affects your entitlement to social security benefits or the amount of those benefits.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.65
How to correct your record.
(a)
How to request a correction.
This section applies to all records kept by SSA (as described in § 401.5) except for records of earnings. (20 CFR 422.125 describes how to request correction of your earnings record.) You may request that your record be corrected or amended if you believe that the record is not accurate, timely, complete, relevant, or necessary to the administration of a social security program. To amend or correct your record, you should write to the manager identified in the notice of systems of records which is published in the
Federal Register
(see § 401.40(c) on how to locate this information). The staff at any social security office can help you prepare the request. You should submit any available evidence to support your request. Your request should indicate—
(1) The system of records from which the record is retrieved;
(2) The particular record which you want to correct or amend;
(3) Whether you want to add, delete or substitute information in the record; and
(4) Your reasons for believing that your record should be corrected or amended.
(b)
What we will not change.
You cannot use the correction process to alter, delete, or amend information which is part of a determination of fact or which is evidence received in the record of a claim in the administrative appeal process. Disagreements with these determinations are to be resolved through the SSA appeal process. (See subparts I and J of part 404, and subpart N of part 416, of this chapter.) For example, you cannot use the correction process to alter or delete a document showing a birth date used in deciding your social security claim. However, you may submit a statement on why you think certain information should be altered, deleted, or amended, and we will make this statement part of your file.
(c)
Acknowledgment of correction request.
We will acknowledge receipt of a correction request within 10 working days, unless we can review and process the request and give an initial determination of denial or compliance before that time.
(d)
Notice of error.
If the record is wrong, we will correct it promptly. If wrong information was disclosed from the record, we will tell all those of whom we are aware received that information that it was wrong and will give them the correct information. This will not be necessary if the change is not due to an error, e.g., a change of name or address.
(e)
Record found to be correct.
If the record is correct, we will inform you in writing of the reason why we refuse to amend your record and we will also inform you of your right to seek a review of the refusal and the name and address of the official to whom you should send your request for review.
(f)
Record of another government agency.
If you request us to correct or amend a record governed by the regulation of another government agency, e.g., Office of Personnel Management, Federal Bureau of Investigation, we will forward your request to such government agency for processing and we will inform you in writing of the referral.
§ 401.70
Appeals of refusals to correct records or refusals to allow access to records.
(a)
General.
This section describes how to appeal decisions we make under the Privacy Act concerning your request for correction of or access to your records, those of your minor child, or those of a person for whom you are the legal guardian. This section describes how to appeal decisions made by SSA under the Privacy Act concerning your request for correction of or access to your records, those of your minor child, or those of a person for whom you are the legal guardian. We generally handle a denial of your request for information about another person under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (see part 402 of this chapter). To appeal a decision under this section, your request must be in writing.
(b)
Appeal of refusal to correct or amend records.
If we deny your request to correct an SSA record, you may request a review of that decision. As discussed in § 401.65(e), our letter denying your request will tell you to whom to write.
(1) We will review your request within 30 working days from the date of the receipt. However, for a good reason and with the approval of the Executive Director for the Office of Privacy and Disclosure, we may extend this time limit up to an additional 30 days. In that case, we will notify you about the delay, the reason for it and the date when the review is expected to be completed.
(2) If, after review, we determine that the record should be corrected, we will do so. However, if we refuse to amend the record as you requested, we will inform you that—
(i) Your request has been refused and the reason for the refusal;
(ii) The refusal is our final decision; and
(iii) You have a right to seek court review of our final decision.
(3) We will also inform you that you have a right to file a statement of disagreement with the decision. Your statement should include the reason you disagree. We will make your statement available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, together with a statement of our reasons for refusing to amend the record. Also, we will provide a copy of your statement to individuals whom we are aware received the record previously.
(c)
Appeals after denial of access.
If, under the Privacy Act, we deny your request for access to your own record, those of your minor child or those of a person to whom you are the legal guardian, we will advise you in writing of the reason for that denial, the name and title or position of the person responsible for the decision and your right to appeal that decision. You may appeal the denial decision to the Office of the General Counsel, Office of Privacy and Disclosure, Social Security Administration, Attn: Executive Director, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235, within 30 days after you receive notice denying all or part of your request, or, if later, within 30 days after you receive materials sent to you in partial compliance with your request.
(d)
Filing your appeal.
If you file an appeal, the Executive Director or his or her designee will review your request and any supporting information submitted and then send you a notice explaining the decision on your appeal. The time limit for making our decision after we receive your appeal is 30 working days. The Executive Director or his or her designee may extend this time limit up to 30 additional working days if one of the circumstances in 20 CFR 402.140 is met. We will notify you in writing of any extension, the reason for the extension and the date by which we will decide your appeal. The notice of the decision on your appeal will explain your right to have the matter reviewed in a Federal district court if you disagree with all or part of our decision.
[72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007, as amended at 88 FR 1329, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 401.75
Rights of parents or legal guardians.
For purposes of this part, a parent or guardian of any minor or the legal guardian of any individual who has been declared incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction is authorized to act on behalf of a minor or
incompetent individual. Except as provided in § 401.45, governing procedures for verifying an individual's identity, and § 401.55(c) governing special procedures for notification of or access to a minor's medical records, if you are authorized to act on behalf of a minor or legal incompetent, you will be viewed as if you were the individual or subject individual.
§ 401.80
Accounting for disclosures.
(a) We will maintain an accounting of all disclosures of a record for five years or for the life of the record, whichever is longer;
except that,
we will not make accounting for:
(1) Disclosures under paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 401.110; and,
(2) Disclosures of your record made with your written consent.
(b) The accounting will include:
(1) The date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure; and
(2) The name and address of the person or entity to whom the disclosure is made.
(c) You may request access to an accounting of disclosures of your record. You must request access to an accounting in accordance with the procedures in § 401.40. You will be granted access to an accounting of the disclosures of your record in accordance with the procedures of this part which govern access to the related record. We may, at our discretion, grant access to an accounting of a disclosure of a record made under paragraph (g) of § 401.110.
§ 401.85
Exempt systems.
(a)
General policy.
The Privacy Act permits certain types of specific systems of records to be exempt from some of its requirements. Our policy is to exercise authority to exempt systems of records only in compelling cases.
(b)
Specific systems of records exempted.
(1) Those systems of records listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are exempt from the following provisions of the Act and this part:
(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and paragraph (c) of § 401.80 of this part which require that you be granted access to an accounting of disclosures of your record.
(ii) 5 U.S.C. 552a (d) (1) through (4) and (f) and §§ 401.35 through 401.75 relating to notification of or access to records and correction or amendment of records.
(iii) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) (G) and (H) which require that we include information about SSA procedures for notification, access, and correction or amendment of records in the notice for the systems of records.
(iv) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) and § 401.30 which require that if we ask you to provide a record to us, we must inform you of the authority for our asking you to provide the record (including whether providing the record is mandatory or voluntary, the principal purposes for maintaining the record, the routine uses for the record, and what effect your refusal to provide the record may have on you), and if you are not required by statute or Executive Order to provide the record, that you agree to provide the record. This exemption applies only to an investigatory record compiled by SSA for criminal law enforcement purposes in a system of records exempt under subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act to the extent that these requirements would prejudice the conduct of the investigation.
(2) The following systems of records are exempt from those provisions of the Privacy Act and this part listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) Pursuant to subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, the Investigatory Material Compiled for Law Enforcement Purposes System, SSA.
(ii) Pursuant to subsection (k)(2) of the Privacy Act:
(A) The General Criminal Investigation Files, SSA;
(B) The Criminal Investigations File, SSA; and,
(C) The Program Integrity Case Files, SSA.
(D) Civil and Administrative Investigative Files of the Inspector General, SSA/OIG.
(E) Complaint Files and Log. SSA/OGC.
(F) Anti-Harassment
Hostile Work Environment Case Tracking and Records System, SSA.
(G) Social Security Administration Violence Evaluation and Reporting System, SSA.
(H) Anti-Fraud System, SSA.
(iii) Pursuant to subsection (k)(5) of the Privacy Act:
(A) Security and Suitability Files.
(B) [Reserved]
(iv) Pursuant to subsection (k)(6) of the Privacy Act, the Personnel Research and Merit Promotion Test Records, SSA/DCHR/OPE.
(c)
Notification of or access to records in exempt systems of records.
(1) Where a system of records is exempt as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you may nonetheless request notification of or access to a record in that system. You should make requests for notification of or access to a record in an exempt system of records in accordance with the procedures of §§ 401.35 through 401.55.
(2) We will grant you notification of or access to a record in an exempt system but only to the extent such notification or access would not reveal the identity of a source who furnished the record to us under an express promise, and prior to September 27, 1975, an implied promise, that his or her identity would be held in confidence, if:
(i) The record is in a system of records which is exempt under subsection (k)(2) of the Privacy Act and you have been, as a result of the maintenance of the record, denied a right, privilege, or benefit to which you would otherwise be eligible; or,
(ii) The record is in a system of records which is exempt under subsection (k)(5) of the Privacy Act.
(3) If we do not grant you notification of or access to a record in a system of records exempt under subsections (k) (2) and (5) of the Privacy Act in accordance with this paragraph, we will inform you that the identity of a confidential source would be revealed if we granted you notification of or access to the record.
(d)
Discretionary actions by SSA.
Unless disclosure of a record to the general public is otherwise prohibited by law, we may at our discretion grant notification of or access to a record in a system of records which is exempt under paragraph (b) of this section. Discretionary notification of or access to a record in accordance with this paragraph will not be a precedent for discretionary notification of or access to a similar or related record and will not obligate us to exercise discretion to grant notification of or access to any other record in a system of records which is exempt under paragraph (b) of this section.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 82 FR 16510, Apr. 5, 2017; 83 FR 63416, Dec. 10, 2018; 84 FR 45901, Sept. 3, 2019; 87 FR 25141, Apr. 28, 2022]
§ 401.90
Contractors.
(a) All contracts which require a contractor to maintain, or on behalf of SSA to maintain, a system of records to accomplish an SSA function must contain a provision requiring the contractor to comply with the Privacy Act and this part.
(b) A contractor and any employee of such contractor will be considered employees of SSA only for the purposes of the criminal penalties of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(i), and the employee standards of conduct (see appendix A of this part) where the contract contains a provision requiring the contractor to comply with the Privacy Act and this part.
(c) This section does not apply to systems of records maintained by a contractor as a result of his management discretion, e.g., the contractor's personnel records.
§ 401.95
Fees.
(a)
Policy.
Where applicable, we will charge fees for copying records in accordance with the schedule set forth in this section. We may only charge fees where you request that a copy be made of the record to which you are granted access. We will not charge a fee for searching a system of records, whether the search is manual, mechanical, or electronic. Where we must copy the record in order to provide access to the record (e.g., computer printout where no screen reading is available), we will provide the copy to you without cost. Where we make a medical record available to a representative designated by you or to a physician or health professional designated by a parent or guardian under § 401.55 of this part, we will not charge a fee.
(b)
Fee schedule.
Our Privacy Act fee schedule is as follows:
(1) Copying of records susceptible to photocopying—$.10 per page.
(2) Copying records not susceptible to photocopying (e.g., punch cards or magnetic tapes)—at actual cost to be determined on a case-by-case basis.
(3) We will not charge if the total amount of copying does not exceed $25.
(c)
Other fees.
We also follow §§ 402.155 through 402.165 of this chapter to determine the amount of fees, if any, we will charge for providing information under the FOIA and Privacy Act.

# Subpart C—Disclosure of Official Records and Information
§ 401.100
Disclosure of records with the written consent of the subject of the record.
(a)
General.
Except as permitted by the Privacy Act and the regulations in this part, or when required by the FOIA, we will not disclose your records without your written consent.
(b)
Disclosure with written consent.
The written consent must clearly specify to whom the information may be disclosed, the information you want us to disclose (e.g., social security number, date and place of birth, monthly Social Security benefit amount, date of entitlement), and, where applicable, during which timeframe the information may be disclosed (e.g., during the school year, while the subject individual is out of the country, whenever the subject individual is receiving specific services).
(c)
Disclosure of the entire record.
We will not disclose your entire record. For example, we will not honor a blanket consent for all information in a system of records or any other record consisting of a variety of data elements. We will disclose only the information you specify in the consent. We will verify your identity and where applicable (e.g., where you consent to disclosure of a record to a specific individual), the identity of the individual to whom the record is to be disclosed.
(d) A parent or guardian of a minor is not authorized to give written consent to a disclosure of a minor's medical record. See § 401.55(c)(2) for the procedures for disclosure of or access to medical records of minors.
[72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.105
Disclosure of personal information without the consent of the subject of the record.
(a) SSA maintains two categories of records which contain personal information:
(1) Nonprogram records, primarily administrative and personnel records which contain information about SSA's activities as a government agency and employer, and
(2) Program records which contain information about SSA's clients that it keeps to administer benefit programs under Federal law.
(b) We apply different levels of confidentiality to disclosures of information in the categories in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section. For administrative and personnel records, the Privacy Act applies. To the extent that SSA has physical custody of personnel records maintained as part of the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) Privacy Act government-wide systems of records, these records are subject to OPM's rules on access and disclosure at 5 CFR parts 293 and 297. For program records, we apply somewhat more strict confidentiality standards than those found in the Privacy Act. The reason for this difference in treatment is that our program records include information about a much greater number of persons than our administrative records, the information we must collect for program purposes is often very sensitive, and claimants are required by statute and regulation to provide us with the information in order to establish entitlement for benefits.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.110
Disclosure of personal information in nonprogram records without the consent of the subject of the record.
The disclosures listed in this section may be made from our nonprogram records, e.g., administrative and personnel records, without your consent. Such disclosures are those:
(a) To officers and employees of SSA who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties. The SSA official who is responsible for the record may upon request of any officer or employee, or on his own initiative,
determine what constitutes legitimate need.
(b) Required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and 20 CFR part 402.
(c) For a routine use as defined in § 401.25 of this part. Routine uses will be listed in any notice of a system of records. SSA publishes notices of systems of records, including all pertinent routine uses, in the
Federal Register.
(d) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of Title 13 U.S.C.
(e) To a recipient who has provided us with advance written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record;
Provided,
that, the record is transferred in a form that does not identify the subject individual.
(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine whether the record has such value.
(g) To another government agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of such government agency or instrumentality has submitted a written request to us, specifying the record desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.
(h) To an individual pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual if a notice of the disclosure is transmitted to the last known address of the subject individual.
(i) To either House of Congress, or to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee.
(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of duties of the Government Accountability Office.
(k) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.115
Disclosure of personal information in program records without the consent of the subject of the record.
This section describes how various laws control the disclosure of personal information that we keep. We disclose information in the program records only when a legitimate need exists. For example, we disclose information to officers and employees of SSA who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties. We also must consider the laws identified below in the respective order when we disclose program information:
(a) Some laws require us to disclose information (§ 401.120); some laws require us to withhold information (§ 401.125). These laws control whenever they apply.
(b) If no law of this type applies in a given case, then we must look to FOIA principles. See § 401.130.
(c) When FOIA principles do not require disclosure, we may disclose information if both the Privacy Act and section 1106 of the Social Security Act permit the disclosure.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20940, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.120
Disclosures required by law.
We disclose information when a law specifically requires it. The Social Security Act requires us to disclose information for certain program purposes. These include disclosures to the SSA Office of Inspector General, the Federal Parent Locator Service, and to States pursuant to an arrangement regarding use of the Blood Donor Locator Service. Also, there are other laws which require that we furnish other agencies information which they need for their programs. These agencies include the Department of Veterans Affairs for its benefit programs, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to carry out its duties regarding aliens, the Railroad Retirement Board for its benefit programs, and to Federal, State and local
agencies administering Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, Medicaid, unemployment compensation, food stamps, and other programs.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20941, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.125
Disclosures prohibited by law.
We do not disclose information when a law specifically prohibits it. The Internal Revenue Code generally prohibits us from disclosing tax return information which we receive to maintain individual earnings records. This includes, for example, amounts of wages and contributions from employers. Other laws restrict our disclosure of certain information about drug and alcohol abuse which we collect to determine eligibility for social security benefits.
§ 401.130
Freedom of Information Act.
The FOIA requires us to disclose any information in our records upon request from the public, unless one of several exemptions in the FOIA applies. When the FOIA requires disclosure (see part 402 of this chapter), the Privacy Act permits it.
The public
does not include Federal agencies, courts, or the Congress, but does include State agencies, individuals, corporations, and most other parties. The FOIA does not apply to requests that are not from
the public
(e.g., from a Federal agency). However, we apply FOIA principles to requests from these other sources for disclosure of program information.
§ 401.135
Other laws.
When the FOIA does not apply, we may not disclose any personal information unless both the Privacy Act and section 1106 of the Social Security Act permit the disclosure. Section 1106 of the Social Security Act requires that disclosures which may be made must be set out in statute or regulations; therefore, any disclosure permitted by this part is permitted by section 1106.
§ 401.140
General principles.
When no law specifically requiring or prohibiting disclosure applies to a question of whether to disclose information, we follow FOIA principles to resolve that question. We do this to insure uniform treatment in all situations. The FOIA principle which most often applies to SSA disclosure questions is whether the disclosure would result in a “clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.” To decide whether a disclosure would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy we consider—
(a) The sensitivity of the information (e.g., whether individuals would suffer harm or embarrassment as a result of the disclosure);
(b) The public interest in the disclosure;
(c) The rights and expectations of individuals to have their personal information kept confidential;
(d) The public's interest in maintaining general standards of confidentiality of personal information; and
(e) The existence of safeguards against unauthorized redisclosure or use.
§ 401.145
Safeguards against unauthorized redisclosure or use.
(a) The FOIA does not authorize us to impose any restrictions on how information is used after we disclose it under that law. In applying FOIA principles, we consider whether the information will be adequately safeguarded against improper use or redisclosure. We must consider all the ways in which the recipient might use the information and how likely the recipient is to redisclose the information to other parties. Thus, before we disclose personal information we may consider such factors as—
(1) Whether only those individuals who have a need to know the information will obtain it;
(2) Whether appropriate measures to safeguard the information to avoid unwarranted use or misuse will be taken; and
(3) Whether we would be permitted to conduct on-site inspections to see whether the safeguards are being met.
(b) We feel that there is a strong public interest in sharing information with other agencies with programs having the same or similar purposes, so we generally share information with those
agencies. However, since there is usually little or no public interest in disclosing information for disputes between two private parties or for other private or commercial purposes, we generally do not share information for these purposes.
§ 401.150
Compatible purposes.
(a)
General.
The Privacy Act allows us to disclose information maintained in a system of records without your consent to any other party if such disclosure is pursuant to a routine use published in the system's notice of system of records. A “Routine use” must be compatible with the purpose for which SSA collected the information.
(b)
Notice of routine use disclosures.
A list of permissible routine use disclosures is included in every system of records notice published in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Determining compatibility
—(1)
Disclosure to carry out SSA programs.
We disclose information for published routine uses necessary to carry out SSA's programs.
(2)
Disclosure to carry out programs similar to SSA programs.
We may disclose information for the administration of other government programs. These disclosures are pursuant to published routine uses where the use is compatible with the purpose for which the information was collected. These programs generally meet the following conditions:
(i) The program is clearly identifiable as a Federal, State, or local government program.
(ii) The information requested concerns eligibility, benefit amounts, or other matters of benefit status in a Social Security program and is relevant to determining the same matters in the other program. For example, we disclose information to the Railroad Retirement Board for pension and unemployment compensation programs, to the Department of Veterans Affairs for its benefit programs, to worker's compensation programs, to State general assistance programs and to other income maintenance programs at all levels of government. We also disclose for health maintenance programs like Medicaid and Medicare.
(iii) The information will be used for appropriate epidemiological or similar research purposes.
[72 FR 20941, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.155
Law enforcement purposes.
(a)
General.
The Privacy Act allows us to disclose information for law enforcement purposes under certain conditions. Much of the information in our files is especially sensitive or very personal. Furthermore, participation in social security programs is mandatory, so people cannot limit what information is given to us. Therefore, we generally disclose information for law enforcement purposes only in limited situations. The Privacy Act allows us to disclose information if the head of the law enforcement agency makes a written request giving enough information to show that the conditions in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section are met, what information is needed, and why it is needed. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section discuss the disclosures we generally make for these purposes.
(b)
Serious crimes.
SSA may disclose information for criminal law enforcement purposes where a violent crime such as murder or kidnapping has been committed and the individual about whom the information is being sought has been indicted or convicted of that crime.
(c)
Criminal activity involving the social security program or another program with the same purposes.
We disclose information when necessary to investigate or prosecute fraud or other criminal activity involving the social security program. We may also disclose information for investigation or prosecution of criminal activity in other income-maintenance or health-maintenance programs (e.g., other governmental pension programs, unemployment compensation, general assistance, Medicare or Medicaid) if the information concerns eligibility, benefit amounts, or other matters of benefit status in a social security program and is relevant to determining the same matters in the other program.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20941, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.160
Health or safety.
The Privacy Act allows us to disclose information in compelling circumstances where an individual's health or safety is affected. For example, if we learn that someone has been exposed to an excessive amount of radiation, we may notify that person and appropriate health officials. If we learn that someone has made a threat against someone else, we may notify that other person and law enforcement officials. When we make these disclosures, the Privacy Act requires us to send a notice of the disclosure to the last known address of the person whose record was disclosed.
§ 401.165
Statistical and research activities.
(a)
General.
Statistical and research activities often do not require information in a format that identifies specific individuals. Therefore, whenever possible, we release information for statistical or research purposes only in the form of aggregates or individual data that cannot be associated with a particular individual. The Privacy Act allows us to release records if there are safeguards that the record will be used solely as a statistical or research record and the individual cannot be identified from any information in the record.
(b)
Safeguards for disclosure with identifiers.
The Privacy Act also allows us to disclose data for statistical and research purposes in a form allowing individual identification, pursuant to published routine use, when the purpose is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected. We will disclose personally identifiable information for statistical and research purposes if—
(1) We determine that the requestor needs the information in an identifiable form for a statistical or research activity, will use the information only for that purpose, and will protect individuals from unreasonable and unwanted contacts;
(2) The activity is designed to increase knowledge about present or alternative Social Security programs or other Federal or State income-maintenance or health-maintenance programs; or is used for research that is of importance to the Social Security program or the Social Security beneficiaries; or an epidemiological research project that relates to the Social Security program or beneficiaries; and
(3) The recipient will keep the information as a system of statistical records, will follow appropriate safeguards, and agrees to our on-site inspection of those safeguards so we can be sure the information is used or redisclosed only for statistical or research purposes. No redisclosure of the information may be made without SSA's approval.
(c)
Statistical record.
A statistical record is a record in a system of records which is maintained only for statistical and research purposes, and which is not used to make any determination about an individual. We maintain and use statistical records only for statistical and research purposes. We may disclose a statistical record if the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section are met.
(d)
Compiling of records.
Where a request for information for statistical and research purposes would require us to compile records, and doing that would be administratively burdensome to ongoing SSA operations, we may decline to furnish the information.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 20941, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.170
Congress.
(a) We disclose information to either House of Congress. We also disclose information to any committee or subcommittee of either House, or to any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of that committee, if the information is on a matter within the committee's or subcommittee's jurisdiction.
(b) We disclose to any member of Congress the information needed to respond to constituents' requests for information about themselves (including requests from parents of minors, or legal guardians). However, these disclosures are subject to the restrictions in §§ 401.35 through 401.60.
§ 401.175
Government Accountability Office.
We disclose information to the Government Accountability Office when that agency needs the information to carry out its duties.
[72 FR 20941, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.180
Disclosure under court order or other legal process.
(a)
General.
The Privacy Act permits us to disclose information when we are ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction. When information is used in a court proceeding, it usually becomes part of the public record of the proceeding and its confidentiality often cannot be protected in that record. Much of the information that we collect and maintain in our records on individuals is especially sensitive. Therefore, we follow the rules in paragraph (d) of this section in deciding whether we may disclose information in response to an order from a court of competent jurisdiction. When we disclose pursuant to an order from a court of competent jurisdiction, and the order is a matter of public record, the Privacy Act requires us to send a notice of the disclosure to the last known address of the person whose record was disclosed.
(b)
Court.
For purposes of this section, a court is an institution of the judicial branch of the U.S. Federal government consisting of one or more judges who seek to adjudicate disputes and administer justice. (See 404.2(c)(6) of this chapter). Entities not in the judicial branch of the Federal government are not courts for purposes of this section.
(c)
Court order.
For purposes of this section, a court order is any legal process which satisfies all of the following conditions:
(1) It is issued under the authority of a Federal court;
(2) A judge or a magistrate judge of that court signs it;
(3) It commands SSA to disclose information; and
(4) The court is a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d)
Court of competent jurisdiction.
It is the view of SSA that under the Privacy Act the Federal Government has not waived sovereign immunity, which precludes state court jurisdiction over a Federal agency or official. Therefore, SSA will not honor state court orders as a basis for disclosure. State court orders will be treated in accordance with the other provisions of this part.
(e)
Conditions for disclosure under a court order of competent jurisdiction.
We disclose information in compliance with an order of a court of competent jurisdiction if—
(1) another section of this part specifically allows such disclosure, or
(2) SSA, the Commissioner of Social Security, or any officer or employee of SSA in his or her official capacity is properly a party in the proceeding, or
(3) disclosure of the information is necessary to ensure that an individual who is accused of criminal activity receives due process of law in a criminal proceeding under the jurisdiction of the judicial branch of the Federal government.
(f)
In other circumstances.
We may disclose information to a court of competent jurisdiction in circumstances other than those stated in paragraph (e) of this section. We will make our decision regarding disclosure by balancing the needs of a court while preserving the confidentiality of information. For example, we may disclose information under a court order that restricts the use and redisclosure of the information by the participants in the proceeding; we may offer the information for inspection by the court
in camera
and under seal; or we may arrange for the court to exclude information identifying individuals from that portion of the record of the proceedings that is available to the public. We will make these determinations in accordance with § 401.140.
(g)
Other regulations on request for testimony, subpoenas and production of records in legal proceedings.
See 20 CFR part 403 of this chapter for additional rules covering disclosure of information and records governed by this part and requested in connection with legal proceedings.
[72 FR 20941, Apr. 27, 2007]
§ 401.185
Other specific recipients.
In addition to disclosures we make under the routine use provision, we also release information to—
(a) The Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census, survey, or related activity; and
(b) The National Archives of the United States if the record has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government. We also disclose a record to the Administrator of General Services for a determination of whether the record has such a value.
§ 401.190
Deceased persons.
We do not consider the disclosure of information about a deceased person to be a clearly unwarranted invasion of that person's privacy. However, in disclosing information about a deceased person, we follow the principles in § 401.115 to insure that the privacy rights of a living person are not violated.
§ 401.195
Situations not specified in this part.
If no other provision in this part specifically allows SSA to disclose information, the Commissioner or designee may disclose this information if not prohibited by Federal law. For example, the Commissioner or designee may disclose information necessary to respond to life threatening situations.
§ 401.200
Blood donor locator service.
(a)
General.
We will enter into arrangements with State agencies under which we will furnish to them at their request the last known personal mailing addresses (residence or post office box) of blood donors whose blood donations show that they are or may be infected with the human immunodeficiency virus which causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome. The State agency or other authorized person, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, will then inform the donors that they may need medical care and treatment. The safeguards that must be used by authorized persons as a condition to receiving address information from the Blood Donor Locator Service are in paragraph (g) of this section, and the requirements for a request for address information are in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Definitions. State
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of Northern Marianas, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
Authorized person
means—
(1) Any agency of a State (or of a political subdivision of a State) which has duties or authority under State law relating to the public health or otherwise has the duty or authority under State law to regulate blood donations; and
(2) Any entity engaged in the acceptance of blood donations which is licensed or registered by the Food and Drug Administration in connection with the acceptance of such blood donations, and which provides for—
(i) The confidentiality of any address information received pursuant to the rules in this part and section 1141 of the Social Security Act and related blood donor records;
(ii) Blood donor notification procedures for individuals with respect to whom such information is requested and a finding has been made that they are or may be infected with the human immunodeficiency virus; and
(iii) Counseling services for such individuals who have been found to have such virus. New counseling programs are not required, and an entity may use existing counseling programs or referrals to provide these services.
Related blood donor records
means any record, list, or compilation established in connection with a request for address information which indicates, directly or indirectly, the identity of any individual with respect to whom a request for address information has been made pursuant to the rules in this part.
(c)
Use of social security number for identification.
A State or an authorized person in the State may require a blood donor to furnish his or her social security number when donating blood. The number may then be used by an authorized person to identify and locate a donor whose blood donation indicates that he or she is or may be infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.
(d)
Request for address of blood donor.
An authorized person who has been unable to locate a blood donor at the address he or she may have given at the time of the blood donation may request assistance from the State agency which has arranged with us to participate in the Blood Donor Locator Service. The request to the Blood Donor Locator Service must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Be from a participating State agency either on its own behalf as an authorized person or on behalf of another authorized person;
(3) Indicate that the authorized person meets the confidentiality safeguards of paragraph (g) of this section; and
(4) Include the donor's name and social security number, the addresses at which the authorized person attempted without success to contact the donor, the date of the blood donation if available, a statement that the donor has tested positive for the human immunodeficiency virus according to the latest Food and Drug Administration standards or that the history of the subsequent use of the donated blood or blood products indicates that the donor has or may have the human immunodeficiency virus, and the name and address of the requesting blood donation facility.
(e)
SSA response to request for address.
After receiving a request that meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, we will search our records for the donor's latest personal mailing address. If we do not find a current address, we will request that the Internal Revenue Service search its tax records and furnish us any personal mailing address information from its files, as required under section 6103(m)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code. After completing these searches, we will provide to the requesting State agency either the latest mailing address available for the donor or a response stating that we do not have this information. We will then destroy the records or delete all identifying donor information related to the request and maintain only the information that we will need to monitor the compliance of authorized persons with the confidentiality safeguards contained in paragraph (g) of this section.
(f)
SSA refusal to furnish address.
If we determine that an authorized person has not met the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (g) of this section, we will not furnish address information to the State agency. In that case, we will notify the State agency of our determination, explain the reasons for our determination, and explain that the State agency may request administrative review of our determination. The Commissioner of Social Security or a delegate of the Commissioner will conduct this review. The review will be based on the information of record and there will not be an opportunity for an oral hearing. A request for administrative review, which may be submitted only by a State agency, must be in writing. The State agency must send its request for administrative review to the Commissioner of Social Security, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235, within 60 days after receiving our notice refusing to give the donor's address. The request for review must include supporting information or evidence that the requirements of the rules in this part have been met. If we do not furnish address information because an authorized person failed to comply with the confidentiality safeguards of paragraph (g) of this section, the State agency will have an opportunity to submit evidence that the authorized person is now in compliance. If we then determine, based on our review of the request for administrative review and the supporting evidence, that the authorized person meets the requirements of the rules in this part, we will respond to the address request as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. If we determine on administrative review that the requirements have not been met, we will notify the State agency in writing of our decision. We will make our determination within 30 days after receiving the request for administrative review, unless we notify the State agency within this 30-day time period that we will need additional time. Our determination on the request for administrative review will give the findings of fact, the reasons for the decision, and what actions the State agency should take to ensure
that it or the blood donation facility is in compliance with the rules in this part.
(g)
Safeguards to ensure confidentiality of blood donor records.
We will require assurance that authorized persons have established and continue to maintain adequate safeguards to protect the confidentiality of both address information received from the Blood Donor Locator Service and related blood donor records. The authorized person must, to the satisfaction of the Secretary—
(1) Establish and maintain a system for standardizing records which includes the reasons for requesting the addresses of blood donors, dates of the requests, and any disclosures of address information;
(2) Store blood donors' addresses received from the Blood Donor Locator Service and all related blood donor records in a secure area or place that is physically safe from access by persons other than those whose duties and responsibilities require access;
(3) Restrict access to these records to authorized employees and officials who need them to perform their official duties related to notifying blood donors who are or may be infected with the human immunodeficiency virus that they may need medical care and treatment;
(4) Advise all personnel who will have access to the records of the confidential nature of the information, the safeguards required to protect the information, and the civil and criminal sanctions for unauthorized use or disclosure of the information;
(5) Destroy the address information received from the Blood Donor Locator Service, as well as any records established in connection with the request which indicate directly or indirectly the identity of the individual, after notifying or attempting to notify the donor at the address obtained from the Blood Donor Locator Service; and
(6) Upon request, report to us the procedures established and utilized to ensure the confidentiality of address information and related blood donor records. We reserve the right to make onsite inspections to ensure that these procedures are adequate and are being followed and to request such information as we may need to ensure that the safeguards required in this section are being met.
(h)
Unauthorized disclosure.
Any official or employee of the Federal Government, a State, or a blood donation facility who discloses blood donor information, except as provided for in this section or under a provision of law, will be subject to the same criminal penalty as provided in section 7213(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for the unauthorized disclosure of tax information.
Pt. 401, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 401—Employee Standards of Conduct
(a)
General.
All SSA employees are required to be aware of their responsibilities under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. Regulations implementing the Privacy Act are set forth in this part. Instruction on the requirements of the Act and regulation shall be provided to all new employees of SSA. In addition, supervisors shall be responsible for assuring that employees who are working with systems of records or who undertake new duties which require the use of systems of records are informed of their responsibilities. Supervisors shall also be responsible for assuring that all employees who work with such systems of records are periodically reminded of the requirements of the Privacy Act and are advised of any new provisions or interpretations of the Act.
(b)
Penalties.
(1) All employees must guard against improper disclosure of records which are governed by the Privacy Act. Because of the serious consequences of improper invasions of personal privacy, employees may be subject to disciplinary action and criminal prosecution for knowing and willful violations of the Privacy Act and regulation. In addition, employees may also be subject to disciplinary action for unknowing or unwillful violations, where the employee had notice of the provisions of the Privacy Act and regulations and failed to inform himself or herself sufficiently or to conduct himself or herself in accordance with the requirements to avoid violations.
(2) SSA may be subjected to civil liability for the following actions undertaken by its employees:
(a) Making a determination under the Privacy Act and §§ 401.65 and 401.70 not to amend an individual's record in accordance with his or her request, or failing to make such review in conformity with those provisions;
(b) Refusing to comply with an individual's request for notification of or access to a record pertaining to him or her;
(c) Failing to maintain any record pertaining to any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is necessary to assure fairness in any determination relating to the qualifications, character, rights, or opportunities of, or benefits to the individual that may be made on the basis of such a record, and consequently makes a determination which is adverse to the individual; or
(d) Failing to comply with any other provision of the Act or any rule promulgated thereunder, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual.
(3) An employee may be personally subject to criminal liability as set forth below and in 5 U.S.C. 552a (i):
(a)
Willful disclosure.
Any officer or employee of SSA, who by virtue of his employment or official position, has possession of, or access to, agency records which contain individually identifiable information the disclosure of which is prohibited by the Privacy Act or by rules or regulations established thereunder, and who, knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $5,000.
(b)
Notice requirements.
Any officer or employee of SSA who willfully maintains a system of records without meeting the notice requirements [of the Privacy Act] shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $5,000.
(c)
Rules governing employees not working with systems of records.
Employees whose duties do not involve working with systems of records will not generally disclose to any one, without specific authorization from their supervisors, records pertaining to employees or other individuals which by reason of their official duties are available to them. Notwithstanding the above, the following records concerning Federal employees are a matter of public record and no further authorization is necessary for disclosure:
(1) Name and title of individual.
(2) Grade classification or equivalent and annual rate of salary.
(3) Position description.
In addition, employees shall disclose records which are listed in SSA's Freedom of Information Regulation as being available to the public. Requests for other records will be referred to the responsible SSA Freedom of Information Officer. This does not preclude employees from discussing matters which are known to them personally, and without resort to a record, to official investigators of Federal agencies for official purposes such as suitability checks, Equal Employment Opportunity investigations, adverse action proceedings, grievance proceedings, etc.
(d)
Rules governing employees whose duties require use or reference to systems of records.
Employees whose official duties require that they refer to, maintain, service, or otherwise deal with systems of records (hereinafter referred to as “Systems Employees”) are governed by the general provisions. In addition, extra precautions are required and systems employees are held to higher standards of conduct.
(1) Systems Employees shall:
(a) Be informed with respect to their responsibilities under the Privacy Act;
(b) Be alert to possible misuses of the system and report to their supervisors any potential or actual use of the system which they believe is not in compliance with the Privacy Act and regulation;
(c) Disclose records within SSA only to an employee who has a legitimate need to know the record in the course of his or her official duties;
(d) Maintain records as accurately as practicable.
(e) Consult with a supervisor prior to taking any action where they are in doubt whether such action is in conformance with the Act and regulation.
(2) Systems employees shall not:
(a) Disclose in any form records from a system of records except (1) with the consent or at the request of the subject individual; or (2) where its disclosure is permitted under § 401.110.
(b) Permit unauthorized individuals to be present in controlled areas. Any unauthorized individuals observed in controlled areas shall be reported to a supervisor or to the guard force.
(c) Knowingly or willfully take action which might subject SSA to civil liability.
(d) Make any arrangements for the design, development, or operation of any system of records without making reasonable effort to provide that the system can be maintained in accordance with the Act and regulation.
(e)
Contracting officers.
In addition to any applicable provisions set forth above, those employees whose official duties involve entering into contracts on behalf of SSA shall also be governed by the following provisions:
(1)
Contracts for design, or development of systems and equipment.
The contracting officer shall not enter into any contract for the design or development of a system of records, or for equipment to store, service or maintain a system of records unless the contracting officer has made reasonable effort to ensure that the product to be purchased is capable of being used without violation of the Privacy Act or the regulations in this part. He shall give special attention to provision of physical safeguards.
(2)
Contracts for the operation of systems of records.
The Contracting Officer, in conjunction with other officials whom he feels appropriate, shall review all proposed contracts providing for the operation of systems of records prior to execution of the contracts to
determine whether operation of the system of records is for the purpose of accomplishing a Department function. If it is determined that the operation of the system is to accomplish an SSA function, the contracting officer shall be responsible for including in the contract appropriate provisions to apply the provisions of the Privacy Act and regulation to the system, including prohibitions against improper release by the contractor, his employees, agents, or subcontractors.
(3)
Other service contracts.
Contracting officers entering into general service contracts shall be responsible for determining the appropriateness of including provisions in the contract to prevent potential misuse (inadvertent or otherwise) by employees, agents, or subcontractors of the contractor.
(f)
Rules governing SSA officials responsible for managing systems of records.
In addition to the requirements for Systems Employees, SSA officials responsible for managing systems of records as described in § 401.40(c) (system managers) shall:
(1) Respond to all requests for notification of or access, disclosure, or amendment of records in a timely fashion in accordance with the Privacy Act and regulation;
(2) Make any amendment of records accurately and in a timely fashion;
(3) Inform all persons whom the accounting records show have received copies of the record prior to the amendments of the correction; and
(4) Associate any statement of disagreement with the disputed record, and
(a) Transmit a copy of the statement to all persons whom the accounting records show have received a copy of the disputed record, and
(b) Transmit that statement with any future disclosure.
[62 FR 4143, Jan. 29, 1997, as amended at 72 FR 69617, Dec. 10, 2007]
Pt. 402

# PART 402—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION AND RECORDS TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
402.05
Scope and purpose of this part.
402.10
Definitions.
402.15
SSA's FOIA policy.
402.20
Relationship between the FOIA and the Privacy Act of 1974.
402.25
Who can file a FOIA request?
402.30
Requirements of a FOIA request.
402.35
Where to submit a FOIA request.
402.40
Requests for deceased individual's records.
402.45
Requests handled outside of the FOIA process.
402.50
FOIA Officer's authority.
402.55
Referrals and consultations.
402.60
How does SSA process FOIA requests?
402.65
Expedited processing.
402.70
Fees associated with processing FOIA requests.
402.75
FOIA fee schedule.
402.80
Charging under section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act.
402.85
Waiver of fees in the public interest.
402.90
Notification of fees and prepayment requirements.
402.95
Release of records.
402.100
FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.
402.105
Appeals of the FOIA Officer's determination.
402.110
U.S. District Court action.
402.115
The FOIA Exemption 1: National defense and foreign policy.
402.120
The FOIA Exemption 2: Internal personnel rules and practices.
402.125
The FOIA Exemption 3: Records exempted by other statutes.
402.130
The FOIA Exemption 4: Trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.
402.135
The FOIA Exemption 5: Internal documents.
402.140
The FOIA Exemption 6: Clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
402.145
The FOIA Exemption 7: Law enforcement.
402.150
The FOIA Exemptions 8 and 9: Records on financial institutions; records on wells.
402.155
Records available for public inspection.
402.160
Where records are published.
402.165
Publications for sale through the Government Publishing Office.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 405, 902(a)(5), and 1306); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a; 18 U.S.C. 1905; 26 U.S.C. 6103; 31 U.S.C. 9701; E.O. 12600, 52 FR 23781, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
89 FR 102711, Dec. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 402.05
Scope and purpose of this part.
(a) The purpose of this part is to describe the Social Security Administration's (SSA) policies and procedures for implementing the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 5 U.S.C. 552. The FOIA mandates disclosure to the public of Federal agency records unless specific exemptions apply. The FOIA also requires an agency to proactively disclose records and make certain records available for public inspection.
(b) The rules in this part describe how SSA makes records available to the public, including:
(1) What constitutes a proper request for records;
(2) How to make a FOIA request;
(3) Who has the authority to release and withhold records;
(4) What fees may be charged to process a request for records;
(5) The timing of determinations regarding release;
(6) The exemptions that permit the withholding of records;
(7) Requesters' right to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison;
(8) Requesters' right to appeal the agency's FOIA determination;
(9) Requesters' right to seek assistance from the Office of Government Information Services and then go to court if they still disagree with our release determination; and
(10) The records available for public inspection.
(c) The rules in this part do not revoke, modify, or supersede SSA's regulations relating to disclosure of information in part 401 or 403 of this chapter.
§ 402.10
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency
means the Social Security Administration (SSA). Agency may also refer to any executive department, military department, government corporation, government-controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal Government, or any independent regulatory agency. A private organization is not an agency even if it is performing work under contract with the Government or is receiving Federal financial assistance.
Chief FOIA Officer
means a senior official of SSA who has an agency-wide responsibility for ensuring efficient and appropriate compliance with the FOIA, monitoring implementation of the FOIA throughout the agency, and making recommendations to the head of the agency to improve the agency's implementation of the FOIA. The Commissioner of SSA designated the General Counsel as the Chief FOIA Officer for SSA. The Chief FOIA Officer or the Chief FOIA Officer's designee is authorized to make final decisions in response to appeals of the FOIA Officer's determinations.
Commercial interest
includes interests relating to business, trade, and profit. These interests could be present regardless of the identity of the requester (
e.g.,
individual, non-profit corporation, for-profit corporation). The interest of a representative of the news media in using the information for news dissemination purposes will not be considered a commercial interest.
Commercial use
request is a request that asks for information for a use or a purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. An agency's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the requester's intended use of the information. Agencies will notify requesters of their placement in this category.
Component
means each separate office, division, commission, service, center, or administration within SSA that may maintain agency records subject to a request under the FOIA.
Duplication
means the process of reproducing a copy of a record, or of the information contained in it, to the extent necessary to respond to a request. Copies include paper, electronic records, audiovisual materials, and other formats of agency records.
Educational institution
is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with their role at the educational institution. To qualify for this category, a requester must show that the FOIA request is authorized by, and is made under the auspices of or in connection with the requester's role at a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further a scholarly research goal of the institution, and not for a commercial use or purpose, or for individual use or benefit. SSA may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
Exemption
means one of the nine exemptions to the mandatory disclosure of records permitted under section 552(b) of the FOIA.
Expedited processing
means the process set forth in the FOIA that allows requesters to request faster processing of their FOIA request, if they meet specific criteria noted in § 402.65.
Fee category
means one of the three categories established by the FOIA to determine whether a requester will be charged fees under FOIA for search, review, and duplication. The categories are: commercial use requests; scientific or educational institutions and news media requests; and all other requests.
Fee waiver
means the waiver or reduction of fees if a requester is able to demonstrate the requirements set forth in § 402.85.
FOIA Library
means an electronic location(s) that SSA uses to post records that are made available to the public without a specific request. SSA makes FOIA library records electronically available to the public through our website,
www.ssa.gov,
including at
www.ssa.gov/foia.
Posted records may include those provided under agency discretion and not required pursuant to FOIA.
FOIA Officer
means an SSA official whom the Commissioner of Social Security delegated the authority to release or withhold records; to assess, waive, or reduce fees in response to FOIA requests; and to make all other determinations regarding the processing of a FOIA request. In this capacity, the FOIA Officer is authorized to request and receive responsive records that may be maintained by other agency components. Except for records subject to proactive disclosure pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of the FOIA, only the FOIA Officer has the authority to release or withhold records or to waive fees in response to a FOIA request.
FOIA Public Liaison
means an agency official who reports to the agency Chief FOIA Officer and serves as a supervisory official to whom a requester can raise concerns about the service the requester received concerning the processing of the FOIA request. This individual is responsible for increasing transparency in the agency's FOIA business process, helping requesters understand the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes. The FOIA Public Liaison may be contacted via email to
FOIA.Public.Liaison@ssa.gov.
FOIA request
means a written request that meets the criteria in § 402.30.
Freedom of Information Act
or
FOIA
means the law codified at 5 U.S.C. 552 that provides the public with the right to request agency records from the Federal executive branch agencies.
Non-commercial scientific institution
means an institution that does not further the commercial, trade, or profit interests of any person or entity and is operated for the purpose of conducting scientific research whose results are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
Numident
refers to the “Numerical Identification System,” the SSA system that contains information available on an Application for a Social Security Card (Form SS-5). The Numident record contains the name of the applicant, place of birth, and other information.
OGC
means the Office of the General Counsel.
Online FOIA portal
means the electronic application that SSA uses to process FOIA requests. The public may also submit requests directly to SSA via the online FOIA portal.
OPD
means the Office of Privacy and Disclosure.
Other requester
means any individual or organization whose FOIA request does not qualify as a commercial-use request, representative of the news media request (including a request made by a freelance journalist), or an educational or non-commercial scientific institution request.
Production
means the process of preparing the records for duplication, including the time spent in preparing the records for duplication (
i.e.,
materials used, records/database retrieval, employee and contractor time, as well as systems processing time).
Record(s)
means any information maintained by an agency, regardless of format, that is made or received in connection with official agency business that is under the agency's control at the time of the FOIA request. Record(s) includes any information maintained for an agency by a third party.
(1) Record(s) does not include personal records of an employee, or other information in formally organized and officially designated SSA libraries and FOIA library, where such materials are available under the rules of the particular library.
(2) Record(s) includes information maintained by the State Disability Determination Services related to performing the disability determination function and medical source information pertaining to consultative examinations performed for the Social Security program when obtained by, created on behalf of, or otherwise, in the control of SSA.
Redact
means delete or mark over.
Representative of the news media
means any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals, including print and online publications that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public. We do not consider FOIA requests for records that support the news-dissemination function of the requester to be a commercial use. We consider “freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity as working for that entity. A publishing contract provides the clearest evidence that a journalist expects publication; however, we also consider a requester's past publication record. We decide whether to grant a requester media status on a case-by-case basis,.
Request
means asking for records, whether or not the requester refers specifically to the FOIA. Requests from Federal agencies, subpoenas, and court orders for documents are not included within this definition.
Review,
unless otherwise specifically defined in this part, means examining records responsive to a request to determine whether any portions are exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing a record for disclosure (
i.e.,
doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure), including redacting the record and marking the appropriate FOIA exemptions. It does not include the process of resolving general legal or policy issues regarding exemptions.
Search
means the process of identifying, locating, and retrieving records responsive to a request, whether in hard copy or in electronic form or format, or by manual or automated/electronic means.
Special services
means performing additional services outside of that required under the FOIA to respond to a request. Examples include using an overnight mail service to send the agency's response to a FOIA request.
SS-5
means an Application for a Social Security Card. It is used to request an original, different, or replacement Social Security Card.
SSA
means the Social Security Administration.
Submitter
means any person or entity that provides trade secrets or commercial or financial information to the agency, and includes individuals, corporations, other organizational entities, and state and foreign governments.
Tolling
means temporarily stopping the running of a time limit. We may toll a FOIA request to seek clarification from the requester or to address fee issues, as further described in § 402.60(h).
Trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information
means trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information that is obtained by the agency from a submitter, such that it may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
§ 402.15
SSA's FOIA policy.
(a)
Presumption of openness.
SSA will withhold information only if we reasonably foresee that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or if disclosure is prohibited by law.
(b)
Authority to release and withhold records.
As described in § 402.50, the
agency's FOIA Officer, or the FOIA Officer's designee, has the authority to:
(1) Release or withhold records in response to initial requests;
(2) Grant or deny expedited processing; and
(3) Reduce or waive fees.
(c)
Records publicly available.
We make available for public inspection in an electronic format records that are final and have been requested and released three or more times and other specified records described in § 402.155. We do not make available for public inspection records that are not static, such as the Open Access Death Master File.
(d)
Required record production.
The FOIA does not require an agency to give opinions, conduct research, answer questions, or create records.
§ 402.20
Relationship between the FOIA and the Privacy Act of 1974.
(a)
Coverage.
The FOIA and the rules in this part apply to all SSA records. The Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, applies to records that are about individuals, but only if the records are in a system of records.
(b)
Requesting your own records.
If you have filed a FOIA request and are an individual requesting your own records that are maintained in a system of records, or if you are a parent or legal guardian authorized to act under § 401.75 of this chapter who is seeking the records about a minor or individual who has been declared incompetent, your request may be handled under the Privacy Act. See § 401.40 of this chapter. If we handle your request under the Privacy Act, we will provide you with written notification with further processing instructions. Privacy Act requests are also processed under the FOIA, when appropriate, to give you the benefit of both statutes. You must verify your identity in accordance with our regulations. See § 401.45 of this chapter.
§ 402.25
Who can file a FOIA request?
Any person may submit a FOIA request to SSA. Under the FOIA, “any person” includes requests from individuals, corporations, State and local agencies, as well as foreign entities. Requests from Federal agencies and Federal or State courts are not covered by the FOIA.
§ 402.30
Requirements of a FOIA request.
(a) To be considered a FOIA request under this part, the following must occur:
(1) The request must be written (either by hand or electronically);
(2) The request must be submitted in accordance with § 402.35;
(3) The requester must provide the following required contact information: Requester's name, U.S. or foreign postal address, description of records sought, and fee willing to pay. While not required, we encourage requesters to provide us with their email address and phone number; and
(4) The request must clearly state and reasonably describe what SSA records are being requested in sufficient detail to enable OPD to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Broad, sweeping requests and vague requests are not reasonably described. When known, requests should identify the records sought by providing the name/title of the record, applicable date range, subject matter, offices or employees involved, and record type. If the request is for electronic communications, such as email records, the request may identify the names, position titles, or other identifying information about the agency employees involved, as well as the applicable timeframe. Absent sufficient details, the agency may be unable to search for or locate the records sought. The greater the date range, the longer it may take to process the request and the greater amount of fees that may be charged.
(b) Requests that do not meet the required criteria in paragraph (a) of this section are not considered proper FOIA requests.
§ 402.35
Where to submit a FOIA request.
(a)
Submission of requests.
Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, requesters must submit FOIA requests in writing to OPD through the following options:
(1)
Online FOIA portal:
Link available from the agency's
www.ssa.gov/foia
website or the National FOIA Portal at
www.FOIA.gov.
(2)
Email: FOIA.Public.Liaison@ssa.gov.
(3)
Mail:
SSA Office of Privacy and Disclosure, ATTN: Freedom of Information Officer, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235.
(b)
Requests for copies of Deceased Individual's Application for a Social Security Card (SS-5) or Numident record.
Requesters may use the Form SSA-711,
Request for a Deceased Individual's Social Security Record,
to request a copy of a deceased individual's original SS-5 or Numident record. When the Form SSA-711 is used, it may be submitted to the office listed on the form or as directed in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 402.40
Requests for deceased individual's records.
(a) The agency will disclose the records concerning a deceased individual when we have acceptable proof of death unless Federal law or regulations prohibits the disclosure.
(b) Proof of death includes:
(1) A copy of a public record of death of the number holder;
(2) A statement of death by the funeral home director;
(3) A statement of death by the attending physician or the superintendent, physician, or intern of the institution where the person died;
(4) A copy of the coroner's report of death or the verdict of the coroner's jury;
(5) An obituary that we determine has sufficient identifying information; or
(6) Other certified record of death that we determine within our discretion is acceptable.
(c) If upon review of the provided proof of death, we cannot determine that the individual is deceased or we have questions about the authenticity of the proof, then the proof is not acceptable. When we do not have acceptable proof of death, we will treat the request in accordance with § 402.20(b), requests for information about a living person.
§ 402.45
Requests handled outside of the FOIA process.
When records outlined in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are requested from OPD, OPD will respond to the requester and provide information for requesting the records sought:
(a) To the extent a request asks for records that are currently publicly available, either from SSA or from another part of the Federal Government. See § 402.155.
(b) If the records sought are distributed by SSA as part of its regular program activity, for example, public information leaflets distributed by SSA. See §§ 402.155 through 402.165.
(c) If the records sought are earnings records covered by § 422.125 of this chapter.
(d) If a request does not meet the requirements of a FOIA request as defined in § 402.30. We will send written correspondence to the requester:
(1) Providing instructions for how to submit a proper FOIA request; or
(2) Asking for additional information to make the request a proper FOIA request.
§ 402.50
FOIA Officer's authority.
(a)
Release determination.
Only the Deputy Executive Director for OPD or their designee is authorized to make determinations about:
(1) Release or withholding of records;
(2) Expedited processing;
(3) Charging or waiver of fees; and
(4) Other matters relating to processing a request for records under this part.
(b)
Determination provided in writing.
The FOIA Officer's determination is provided in writing to the requester via emailed communication or, in the absence of the requester's email address, via U.S. postal mail. If the requester disagrees with the FOIA Officer's determination in response to items identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the requester may appeal the determination to the Executive Director for OPD, as described in § 402.105.
§ 402.55
Referrals and consultations.
(a)
Consultation and referral.
When reviewing records located by SSA in response to a request, SSA will determine whether another agency of the
Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, SSA will proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Referral of FOIA records in whole or in part to an outside agency.
We will notify the requester in writing when we opt to refer records in whole or in part to another agency for direct response from that agency, including the name(s) or the agency(s) to which the record was referred and that agency's FOIA contact information, unless notification would cause harm to an interest protected under the FOIA. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, we coordinate to seek the view of the originating agency.
(2)
Agency consultation.
If a request is for records that were created by, or provided to us by, another agency that is not subject to the FOIA, we may consult with that agency, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Consultation with another agency or entity.
If a request is for records that originated with SSA but contain information of interest to another agency or entity, we may consult with the other agency or entity prior to issuing our release determination to the requester.
§ 402.60
How does SSA process FOIA requests?
(a)
Acknowledgement.
(1) If we receive a FOIA request that will take longer than 10 working days to process, we will provide an acknowledgment. The acknowledgement email or letter restates the FOIA request and provides the requester with the request's tracking number.
(2) If we require clarification to process the FOIA request, we will contact the requester either via email, U.S. postal mail, or phone call. We attempt to contact requesters twice. If we do not receive a response to our clarification attempts within 30 calendar days from the date of our first contact to the requester, we will close the FOIA request due to insufficient information.
(b)
Perfected requests.
FOIA requests are considered “perfected,”
i.e.,
the 20-working day statutory time begins, when the request meets the requirements of the proper FOIA request listed in § 402.30. There may be times that we require more information from the requester after perfecting a request. The 20-working day period may be extended in unusual circumstances by written notice to the requester. See paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Multi-tracking procedures.
FOIA requests are categorized simple, complex, or expedited. Unless granted expedited processing, we process FOIA requests in each track according to a first-in, first-out basis.
(1)
Simple.
For most non-expedited requests, we make a determination about release of the record(s) requested within 20-working days.
(2)
Complex.
We will place into a complex processing queue any request that cannot be completed within 20-working days due to the complex nature of the request, including consultation with components that may maintain records subject to the request. We make good faith efforts to notify requesters in writing if it is necessary for us to take additional time to process a request and of the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services with the Office of Government Information Services. See § 402.100.
(3)
Expedited processing.
Unless granted expedited processing, we process FOIA requests according to a first-in, first-out basis. See § 402.65 for information on expedited processing.
(d)
Unusual circumstances.
(1) Unusual circumstances exist when there is a need to:
(i) Search for and collect records from SSA components or field locations that are separate from OPD;
(ii) Search for, collect, and review a voluminous number of records that are part of a single request; or
(iii) Consult with two or more SSA components or another agency having substantial interest in the request before releasing the records.
(2) Within the unusual circumstances letter to the requester, we will provide an estimated date that we will contact the requester with the applicable fee notice and/or further correspondence. We will notify the requester of the date by which we estimate completing the
request. We will also advise the requester that they may modify or narrow the scope of their request.
(3) When unusual circumstances exist, we will process the request under the complex track.
(e)
Aggregating requests.
We may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request, involving clearly related matters, which would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. In the event requests are aggregated, they will be treated as one request for estimating response time and calculating fees.
(f)
Fee notice.
FOIA requesters are issued a fee notice that informs them of the estimated search, review, and duplication time associated with processing their FOIA request. For more information on fees, see §§ 402.70 through 402.80.
(g)
Tolling.
(1) We may stop or toll the 20 working days in two circumstances:
(i) We may stop the clock once if we require additional information regarding the specifics of the request; and
(ii) We may stop the clock as many times as needed regarding fee assessments.
(2) The processing time will resume upon our receipt of the requester's response. There may be instances when we require multiple clarifications on a FOIA request. After the first request for clarification, any additional clarifications are performed without tolling the clock. If we do not receive a response to our clarification attempts within 30 calendar days from the date of our first contact to the requester, we will close the FOIA request.
(h)
Retrieving records.
We are required to furnish copies of records only when they are in our possession or we can retrieve them from storage. We will make reasonable efforts to search for records except when such efforts would significantly interfere with the operation of our automated information system(s). The Federal Government follows National Archives and Records Administration rules on record retention. Records are retained or destroyed under the guidelines of the Federal Records Act.
(i)
No records determinations.
We will search for records to satisfy a request using methods that can be reasonably expected to produce the requested records. Nevertheless, we may not be able to always find the records requested using the information provided by the requester, or they may not exist. If we advise that we have been unable to find the records despite a diligent search, the requester may appeal the no records determination to the Executive Director for OPD, as described in § 402.105.
(j)
Furnishing records.
We will furnish copies of records in whole or in-part, unless we reasonably foresee that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or if disclosure is prohibited by law. When information within a responsive record(s) is exempt from disclosure, the information is redacted and the applicable FOIA exemption(s) are noted within the redacted cell. We will make reasonable efforts to provide the records in the form or format requested if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format. We may provide individual records as we process them on a rolling basis, or we may release all responsive records once the request is completed. See § 402.95 for more information on SSA's release of records.
(k)
Directing a requester to another agency.
If a request is for records that are not SSA records for purposes of the FOIA, and we believe the records may be maintained by another agency, we may advise the requester to submit their request to that other agency. In such cases, we will provide the requester with the other agency's name in our response letter. Our recommendation that the requester submit their request to the other agency is not a guarantee the other agency will have or disclose the records requested.
(l)
Burdensome requests.
The FOIA requires an agency to provide the record in any form or format requested by the person if the record is readily reproducible by the agency in that form or format. We will not search or produce records in response to a FOIA request that we determine would be unduly
burdensome to process. FOIA requests are determined to be unreasonably burdensome when processing the FOIA request would significantly interfere with the ongoing operation of the agency's programs.
§ 402.65
Expedited processing.
(a) Expedited processing must be requested at the same time as the FOIA request. We provide expedited processing when the requester can demonstrate a “compelling need” for the requested information:
(1) When there is an imminent threat to the life or safety of a person;
(2) When the requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information, and shows an urgency to inform the public about actual or alleged government activities; or
(3) When the requester can show, in detail and to our satisfaction, that a prompt response is needed because the requester may be denied a legal right, benefit, or remedy without the requested information, and that it cannot be obtained elsewhere in a reasonable amount of time.
(b) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. We will notify the requester within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request for expedited processing of our decision to grant or deny expedited processing. Only the FOIA Officer may make the decision to grant or deny expedited processing. Requests granted expedited processing will be given priority and processed as soon as practicable. Requests that do not meet the “compelling need” criteria, will be processed normally. If we do not grant the request for expedited processing, the requester may appeal the denial to the Executive Director for OPD. In the appeal letter, the requester should explain why they believe their request demonstrates a “compelling need,” such as describing how the request meets the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. The process described in § 402.105 will also apply to these appeals.
§ 402.70
Fees associated with processing FOIA requests.
(a)
Charging authorities
—(1)
Section 1106(c).
Section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306(c)) allows the agency to charge for FOIA requests that are not directly related to SSA's administration of the Social Security Act. See § 402.80 for information on the agency's authorization under section 1106(c) to charge requesters. Requesters may request a fee waiver, as described in § 402.85.
(2)
FOIA fee categories.
The FOIA establishes three fee categories of requesters,
i.e.,
commercial use, non-commercial scientific or educational institutions and representatives of the news media; and other requesters. The category of the requester determines the fees that may be charged; see § 402.75 for the FOIA fee schedule. Requesters may request a fee waiver, as described in § 402.85.
(b)
Hourly rate when charging under section 1106(c) and the FOIA fee categories.
(1) When we search for and review records, we charge an hourly rate, based in 15-minute increments, depending on the grade(s) of the employee(s) and/or contractors performing the search and review. The hourly rate is the same when charging under the FOIA fee provisions or section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act. SSA uses the current General Schedule (GS) salary table for the locality pay area of Washington-Baltimore-Arlington, DC-MD-VA-WV-PA. We use the following criteria to compute our hourly rates for search or review:
(i) When performed by employees at grade GS-1 through GS-8, SSA will charge an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS-5, step 7, employee;
(ii) When performed by a GS-9 through GS-14, SSA will charge an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS-12, step 4, employee; and
(iii) When performed by a GS-15 or above, SSA will charge an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS-15, step 7, employee.
(2) When work is performed by a contractor, we will charge an hourly rate based on the GS equivalent of the contractor's hourly pay rate. We compute the hourly rate by taking the current hourly rate for the specified grade and
adding 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits and rounding to the nearest whole dollar. These rates are adjusted as Federal salaries change. Federal salary rates are available from the Office of Personnel Management. When a search and review involves employees at more than one of these GS levels, we will charge the rate appropriate for each. We may charge a fee for search time even if we are unable to locate any responsive records or the records are exempt from disclosure.
§ 402.75
FOIA fee schedule.
(a)
Fee schedule category.
Requesters whom SSA charges under the FOIA fee schedule are subject to the following fees dependent upon their fee category:
(1)
Commercial.
Commercial use requesters are charged for search, review, and duplication.
(2)
Non-commercial educational or scientific institutions and representative of the news media.
Requesters that fit this category are charged for the duplication of documents. We will not charge requesters the copying costs for the first 100 pages of duplication.
(3)
Other.
If the FOIA request does not fall within a category described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, we will charge for search and duplication; however, we will not charge for the first two hours of search time or for the duplication costs of the first 100 pages.
(b)
Certification.
If a requester asks for certification of the record(s) responsive to their FOIA request and OPD agrees to provide it, we will notify the requester of the appropriate certification fee via written correspondence.
(c)
Record(s) production and duplication
—(1)
Electronic records.
We will charge the actual costs for producing and duplicating the record and the time spent by the employees or contractors in production, duplication, or otherwise processing the FOIA request, at the rates given in § 402.70(c).
(2)
Photocopying standard size pages.
For noncommercial requesters, we will charge $0.10 per page after the first 100 pages, which are free. The FOIA Officer may charge lower fees for particular documents where:
(i) The document has already been printed in large numbers;
(ii) The program office determines that using existing stock to answer this request, and any other anticipated FOIA requests, will not interfere with program requirements; and
(iii) The FOIA Officer determines that the lower fee is adequate to recover the prorated share of the original printing costs.
(3)
Photocopying odd-size documents.
For photocopying documents, such as punch cards or blueprints, or duplicating other records, such as tapes, we will charge the actual costs of operating the machine, plus the actual cost of the materials used, plus charges for the time spent by the operator, at the rates given in § 402.70(c).
(d)
Cost of service less than cost of issuing a bill.
We will not charge a fee when the cost of the service is less than the cost of sending the requester a bill. However, where an individual, organization, or governmental unit makes multiple separate requests, we will total the costs incurred and bill the requester for the services rendered.
(e)
Fee waiver.
We may waive or reduce the fee if we find that waiver is in the public interest. See § 402.85 for fee waiver information.
§ 402.80
Charging under section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act.
Section 1106(c) of the Social Security Act permits the agency to charge the full cost to process requests for information for purposes not directly related to the administration of program(s) under the Social Security Act. This may be done notwithstanding the fee provisions in FOIA, the Privacy Act, or any other provision of law. In responding to FOIA requests for non-program purposes, we will charge the full cost (both direct and indirect costs) of our services, regardless of the requester's fee categorization, unless the cost of the service is less than the cost of issuing a bill as stated in paragraph (b) of this section.
(a)
Full costs.
The agency may charge full costs for processing records or information requests, including but not limited to:
(1)
Search.
We may charge for search time even if we are unable to locate any responsive records or the records
are exempt from disclosure. We will notify the requester in writing if the records estimated as responsive are determined unreasonably burdensome for the agency to process and/or the search would cause significant interference with the operation of SSA's automated information systems.
(2)
Review.
Review includes the reviews performed at any level (staff through executive), including but not limited to review by multiple people and offices.
(3)
Production and duplication of record(s).
We may charge the full cost of the systems' processing (
e.g.,
computer search time, computer processing database retrieval), materials used to produce and duplicate the requested record(s), and time spent by agency employee(s) and/or contractor(s) in production, duplication, or otherwise processing the FOIA request.
(4)
Certification.
We will charge the full costs for certification.
(5)
Employee's time.
The full cost of an employee's time includes fringe benefits and overhead costs, such as rent and utilities.
(6)
Forwarding/delivering materials.
If special arrangements for forwarding material are requested, we will charge the requester the full cost of this service (
e.g.,
if express mail or a commercial delivery service is requested). If no special forwarding arrangements are requested, we will charge the requester the full cost of the service, including the U.S. Postal Service cost.
(7)
Performing other special services.
If we agree to provide any special services requested, we will charge the full cost of the time of the employee(s) or contractor(s) who perform the service, plus the full cost of any systems processing time and materials that the employee or contractor uses.
(b)
Cost of service less than cost of issuing a bill.
We will not charge a fee when the cost of the service is less than the cost of sending the requester a bill. However, where an individual, organization, or governmental unit makes multiple separate requests, we will total the costs incurred and bill the requester for the services rendered.
(c)
Standard administrative fees for non-program information.
The information in this part does not revoke, modify, or supersede the schedule of standard administrative fees the agency charges for specified non-program information requests.
(d)
Non-program purpose.
Non-program purposes constitute any purpose that is not program related.
(1) We consider a request to be program related if:
(i) The information must be disclosed under the Social Security Act (Act); or
(ii) The information will be used for a purpose which is directly related to the administration of a program under the Act for which SSA has responsibility. In deciding whether this paragraph (d)(1)(ii) applies, the major criteria SSA considers is whether the information is:
(A) Needed to pursue a benefit under a program that SSA administers under the Act.
(B) Needed solely to verify the accuracy of information obtained in connection with a program that SSA administers under the Act.
(C) Needed in connection with an activity under SSA's purview which is authorized under the Act.
(D) Needed by an employer to carry out taxpaying responsibilities under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act or section 218 of the Act.
(2) We will consider each request on a case-by-case basis when the criteria in this paragraph (d) are not met but the requester claims a request is for a program-related purpose for another reason. We will not conclude a request is program-related solely because the records sought are about programs administered by SSA or are claimed to be of public interest.
(e)
Disagreement with program or non-program determination.
Only the FOIA Officer has the authority to make the program/non-program decision. If a requester disagrees with the FOIA Officer's non-program determination, they may appeal the decision to the Executive Director for OPD. In the appeal letter, the requester should explain why they believe the request meets the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The process described in § 402.105 will also apply to these appeals.
§ 402.85
Waiver of fees in the public interest.
A requester may request waiver or reduction of fees, whether charged under § 402.75 or § 402.80, if the release of the requested records is in the public interest. We will waive or reduce the fees we would otherwise charge if disclosure of the requested information:
(a) Is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government; and
(b) Is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(1)
Procedure for requesting a waiver or reduction.
A requester must make the request for a fee waiver or reduction in writing at the same time they make their request for records. The requester should explain with reasonable specificity why they believe a waiver or reduction is proper under the analysis in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. Only the FOIA Officer may make the decision whether to waive, or reduce, the fees. If we do not completely grant the request for a waiver or reduction, the requester may appeal the denial to the Executive Director for OPD. In the appeal letter, the requester should explain why they believe the request meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. The process prescribed in § 402.105 will also apply to these appeals.
(2)
Public interest.
We consider the factors below when analyzing whether disclosure is in the public interest:
(i) How the records pertain to the Federal Government's operations or activities;
(ii) Whether disclosure would reveal any meaningful information about Government operations or activities not already known to the public; and
(iii) Whether the contribution to public understanding of those operations or activities would be significant.
(iv) Regarding the above criteria, you must be reasonably specific in your waiver request as to the specific Government operation or activity and provide direct, clear (not remote or attenuated) connections to the meaningful information you seek. Generalized interest in government programs is not reasonably specific to grant waiver.
(3)
Not primarily in requester's commercial interest.
If the disclosure is determined to be in the public interest as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, we will then determine whether it also furthers the requester's commercial interest and, if so, whether this effect outweighs the advancement of that public interest. We consider the following factors when analyzing whether disclosure is not primarily in the requester's commercial interest:
(i) Would the disclosure further a commercial interest of the requester, or of someone on whose behalf the requester is acting?
(ii) If disclosure would further a commercial interest of the requester, would that effect outweigh the advancement of the public interest defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section? Which effect is primary?
(4)
Burden on SSA to produce the record(s).
If the disclosure meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, we reserve the right to charge a fee if special services are needed to provide the records.
(5)
Deciding between waiver and reduction.
If the disclosure meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, we will normally waive fees. However, in some cases we may decide only to reduce the fees. For example, we may do this when disclosure of some but not all of the requested records meet the fee waiver criteria.
§ 402.90
Notification of fees and prepayment requirements.
Requesters must agree to pay the fee, whether charged under § 402.75 or § 402.80, before we will begin the search for record(s).
(a)
Cost estimate.
OPD will issue a fee notice to the requester for the processing of their request for records that includes an estimated fee based on the time we estimate it will take to process the record(s) requested. We issue fee notices via email or, when the requester does not provide an email address, via U.S. postal mail.
(b)
Advanced payment information required.
The requester must agree to pay the estimated fee provided within the fee notice and provide the agency with
payment information within 30 calendar days from the date of our fee notice. Payment information is required before OPD will begin the search for the requested record(s). Unless otherwise specified in the schedule of standard administrative fees the agency charges for specified non-program information requests, OPD will process payment when the request is closed,
i.e.,
when the FOIA Officer issues a decision on records release. If the payment information provided by the requester expires during the course of OPD's processing of the FOIA request, the requester must provide updated payment information. If updated payment information is not provided within 30 calendar days of our written request for the payment information, we reserve the right to administratively close the request.
(c)
Changes in estimated fee.
(1) If the time spent to search for records is more or less than the time estimated in the fee notice, OPD will issue the requester a revised fee notice after the responsive component(s) performs the records search and retrieval.
(2) If the record(s) provided to OPD for review are more or less than those from which OPD estimated search and review time, OPD will issue the requester a revised fee notice after the responsive component(s) perform the records search and retrieval.
(3) OPD will either dispose of the payment information or return the payment information to the requester when OPD issues the revised fee notice.
(4) The requester must agree to pay the revised fee before we will continue processing the request. If the requester disagrees with the revised fee, the requester may appeal to the Executive Director for OPD. Appeals will be processed as described in § 402.105.
(d)
Prompt payment.
We will administratively close the FOIA request if we do not receive a response or appeal within 30 calendar days from the date of the fee notice. “Response” includes:
(1) Requesting to narrow the scope of the request; or
(2) Providing payment in response to the fee notice. Appeals will be processed as described in § 402.105.
(e)
Methods of payment.
We accept payment by check or money order made payable to the Social Security Administration (SSA), as well as by credit card (MasterCard, Visa, Discover, American Express, or Diner's Club).
§ 402.95
Release of records.
(a)
Records previously released.
If we have released a record, or a part of a record, to others in the past, we will ordinarily release it to the requester, as well. However, we will not release it to a requester if a statute forbids this disclosure; an exemption applies that was not previously applicable; or if the previous release was unauthorized.
(b)
Withholding records.
Section 552(b) of the FOIA explains the nine exemptions under which we may withhold records requested under the FOIA. Within §§ 402.115 through 402.150, we describe the FOIA exemptions and explain how we apply them to disclosure determinations. In some cases, more than one exemption may apply to the same document. Section 552(b) of the FOIA, while providing nine exemptions from mandatory disclosure, does not itself provide any assurance of confidentiality by the agency.
(c)
FOIA library.
If the record(s) requested are already publicly available, either in our electronic FOIA library or elsewhere online, such as at
www.ssa.gov,
we will direct the requester to the publicly available record(s).
(d)
Poor copy.
If we cannot make a legible copy of a record to be released, we do not attempt to reconstruct it. Instead, we furnish the best copy possible and note its poor quality in our reply.
§ 402.100
FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.
We notify requesters of their right to seek dispute resolution from the FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) within our fee notices, responses to determinations identified in § 402.50(a), and responses to appeals.
(a)
FOIA Public Liaison.
If requesters have questions about the response to their request or wish to seek dispute resolutions services within SSA, the requester may contact the FOIA Public
Liaison via email to
FOIA.Public.Liaison@ssa.gov.
(b)
OGIS.
OGIS is an entity outside of SSA that offers mediation services to resolve disputes between FOIA requesters and Federal agencies as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. OGIS' contact information will be provided in any decision letter issued by the FOIA Officer and Executive Director for OPD.
§ 402.105
Appeals of the FOIA Officer's determination.
(a)
Appeal requirements.
If a requester disagrees with the FOIA Officer's determination in response to items specified in § 402.50(a), the requester may appeal the decision. The appeal must meet the following requirements:
(1) Be submitted in writing via the avenues identified in § 402.35(a);
(2) Be received, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted within 90 calendar days from the date of the determination the requester is appealing; and
(3) Explain what the requester is appealing and include additional information to support the appeal. The appeal should clearly identify the agency determination that is being appealed and the assigned request's tracking number. To facilitate handling when submitted via mail or fax, the requester should mark the appeal letter, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Acknowledgement.
If we receive an appeal that will take longer than 10 working days to process, we will provide an acknowledgment. The acknowledgement is provided via email or, when the requester does not provide an email address, via U.S. postal mail. The acknowledgement email or letter restates the FOIA appeal and provides the requester with the appeal's tracking number.
(c)
Processing timeframe.
FOIA appeals are categorized as either simple or complex, based on the designation of the initial request.
(1)
Simple.
Generally, we make a determination about release of the requested record(s) within 20-working days.
(2)
Complex.
Appeals of complex requests cannot be completed within 20-working days. During OPD's processing of the appeal, OPD will need to consult with appropriate SSA component(s), including legal counsel; therefore, we generally require more than 20-working days to issue a final decision on the appeal.
(d)
Final decision.
The Chief FOIA Officer delegated to the Executive Director for OPD the authority to make decisions on appeals of the FOIA Officer's determinations.
(1) The final decision is provided in writing to the requester via email or, in the absence of the requester's email address, via U.S. postal mail.
(2) The final decision letter will explain the basis of the decision (for example, the reasons why an exemption applies).
(e)
Disagreement with final decision.
If a requester disagrees with the final decision issued by the Executive Director for OPD, they may seek assistance from OGIS, as described in § 402.100. Requesters may also ask a U.S. District Court to review our final decision. See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(B).
§ 402.110
U.S. District Court action.
If the Executive Director for OPD or the Executive Director for OPD's designee, upon review, affirms the denial of the FOIA Officer's determination of items specified in § 402.50(a), requesters may ask a U.S. District Court to review that denial. See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(B).
§ 402.115
The FOIA Exemption 1: National defense and foreign policy.
Exemption 1 protects from disclosure information specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order.
§ 402.120
The FOIA Exemption 2: Internal personnel rules and practices.
Exemption 2 authorizes our agency to withhold records that are related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency. For example, we may withhold personnel rules and practices dealing with employee relations or human resources.
§ 402.125
The FOIA Exemption 3: Records exempted by other statutes.
(a)
Required record release.
Exemption 3 authorizes our agency to withhold records if another statute specifically allows or requires us to withhold them. We may use another statute to justify withholding only if it prohibits disclosure or if it sets forth criteria to guide our decision on releasing or identifies particular types of material to be withheld.
(b)
Examples.
(1) We often use this exemption to withhold information regarding a worker's earnings which is tax return information under section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(2) We also use this exemption to withhold death information about decedents:
(i) When the date of death is within three calendar years from the current date, the requested information about the decedent is protected under section 203 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Pub. L. 113-67).
(ii) When the agency's source of death is the state, the requested information is protected under section 205(r) of the Social Security Act.
§ 402.130
The FOIA Exemption 4: Trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.
Submitters may designate information as trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information at the time of submission or within a reasonable time thereafter. Submitters must use good faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under the FOIA exemptions. These designations expire ten years after the due date of the submission unless the submitter requests a longer designation period.
(a)
Steps of submitters notice
—(1)
The submitter's notice.
When trade secrets or confidential commercial or financial information is requested under the FOIA, SSA will provide written submitter's notice if we have a reason to believe that information in the records could reasonably be disclosed under the FOIA. The submitter's notice will describe and include a copy of the trade secret or commercial or financial information requested or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving many submitters, SSA may post or publish a submitter's notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure instead of sending individual notifications. The submitter's notice requirements of this section do not apply if:
(i) SSA determines the information is fully exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;
(ii) The information has been previously published or made generally available; or
(iii) Disclosure of the information is required by statute other than the FOIA.
(2)
Submitter's opportunity to object to disclosure.
(i) Unless SSA grants an extension, the submitter must respond to the notice within five working days of SSA issuing the submitter's notice or the information may be released in accordance with these regulations and the FOIA. A submitter who fails to respond within five working days will be considered to have no objection to the disclosure of the information. SSA is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(ii) If a submitter objects to disclosure, the submitter should provide SSA with a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for non-disclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is confidential.
(iii) SSA will consider a submitter's timely made objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.
(3)
Notice of intent to disclose.
Whenever SSA decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, SSA provides the following to the submitter:
(i) A Release Over Objection letter explaining the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections did not meet the requirements for withholding under the FOIA.
(ii) A copy of the information as SSA intends to release it.
(iii) A statement of our intent to disclose the information five working days from the date on the Release Over Objection letter unless the submitter files an action in a U.S. District Court to prevent the release.
(b)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
When a submitter's notice is issued for a request that is the subject of a lawsuit, SSA notifies the submitter of the lawsuit within the notice.
(c)
Requester notification.
To the extent SSA expects substantial delays in the processing of FOIA requests due to the agency's communications with the submitter, we will notify the requester in writing via email, or when the requester's email is not provided, via U.S. postal mail.
§ 402.135
The FOIA Exemption 5: Internal documents.
This exemption covers inter-agency or intra-agency government documents that fall within an evidentiary privilege recognized in civil discovery. Such internal government communications may include an agency's communications with an outside consultant or other outside person, with a court, or with Congress, when those communications are for a purpose similar to the purpose of privileged intra-agency communications. Some of the most-commonly applicable privileges are described in the following paragraphs:
(a)
Deliberative process privilege.
This privilege protects the decision-making processes of government agencies. Information is protected under this privilege if it is predecisional and deliberative. The purpose of the privilege is to prevent injury to the quality of the agency decision-making process by encouraging open and frank internal discussions, by avoiding premature disclosure of decisions not yet adopted, and by avoiding the public confusion that might result from disclosing reasons that were not in fact the ultimate grounds for an agency's decision. Purely factual material in a deliberative document is within this privilege only if it is inextricably intertwined with the deliberative portions so that it cannot reasonably be segregated, if it would reveal the nature of the deliberative portions, or if its disclosure would in some other way make possible an intrusion into the decision-making process. We will release purely factual material in a deliberative document unless that material is otherwise exempt. The privilege continues to protect predecisional documents even after a decision is made; however, we will release predecisional deliberative communications that were created 25 years or more before the date on which the records are requested.
(b)
Attorney work product privilege.
This privilege protects records prepared by or for an attorney in anticipation of or for litigation. It includes documents prepared for purposes of administrative and court proceedings. This privilege extends to information directly prepared by an attorney, as well as materials prepared by non-attorneys working for an attorney.
(c)
Attorney-client communication privilege.
This privilege protects confidential communications between an attorney and the attorney's client where legal advice is sought or provided.
§ 402.140
The FOIA Exemption 6: Clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
We may withhold records about individuals if disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of their personal privacy.
(a)
Balancing test.
When we decide whether to release records that contain personal or private information about someone else, we weigh the foreseeable harm of invading a person's privacy against the public interest in disclosure. When we determine whether disclosure would be in the public interest, we will consider whether disclosure of the requested information would shed light on how a Government agency performs its statutory duties.
(b)
Agency employees.
To protect the safety of agency employees, we will not disclose information when the information sought is contact information and/or duty stations of one or more Federal employees if the disclosure would place
employee(s) at risk of injury or other harm.
(c)
Examples.
We generally withhold the personally identifiable information of individuals if we do not have the consent (consistent with § 401.100 of this chapter) of the number holder, including but not limited to the number holder's home address, age, Social Security number, claims file, and other personal information. If the information requested concerns agency employees, we will determine disclosure on a case-by-case basis. For example, our redaction of management officials' information may be treated differently depending on how the balancing test applies in a given circumstance.
§ 402.145
The FOIA Exemption 7: Law enforcement.
Exemption 7 authorizes our agency to withhold certain records that the government has compiled for law enforcement purposes. The records may apply to actual or potential violations of either criminal or civil laws or regulations. We can withhold these records only to the extent that releasing them would cause harm in at least one of the following situations:
(a)
Enforcement proceedings.
Pursuant to the FOIA Exemption 7(A) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(a)), we may withhold information whose release could reasonably be expected to interfere with prospective or ongoing law enforcement proceedings. Investigations of fraud and mismanagement, employee misconduct, and civil rights violations may fall into this category. In certain cases—such as when a fraud investigation is likely—we may refuse to confirm or deny the existence of records that relate to the violations in order not to disclose that an investigation is in progress, or may be conducted.
(b)
Fair trial or impartial adjudication.
Under the FOIA Exemption 7(B) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(b)), we may withhold records whose release would deprive a person of a fair trial or an impartial adjudication because of prejudicial publicity.
(c)
Personal privacy.
Under the FOIA Exemption 7(C) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(c)), we may withhold the personally identifiable information of individuals when the disclosure could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. When a name surfaces in an investigation, that person is likely to be vulnerable to innuendo, rumor, harassment, and retaliation.
(d)
Confidential sources and information.
Pursuant to the FOIA Exemption 7(D) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(d)), we may withhold the identity of confidential sources, as well as the records obtained from the confidential sources in criminal investigations or by an agency conducting a lawful national security investigation. A confidential source may be an individual; a State, local, or foreign government agency; or any private organization. The exemption applies whether the source provides information under an express promise of confidentiality or under circumstances from which such an assurance could be reasonably inferred; however, inferred confidentiality is determined in a case-by-case analysis. Also protected from mandatory disclosure is any information which, if disclosed, could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the system of confidentiality that assures a flow of information from sources to investigatory agencies.
(e)
Techniques and procedures.
Under the FOIA Exemption 7(E) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(e)), we may withhold records that would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law. In some cases, it is not possible to describe even in general terms those techniques without disclosing the very material to be withheld.
(f)
Life and physical safety.
Under the FOIA Exemption 7(F) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)(f)), we may withhold records whose disclosure could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual. This protection extends to threats and harassment, as well as to physical violence.
§ 402.150
The FOIA Exemptions 8 and 9: Records on financial institutions; records on wells.
Exemption 8 permits us to withhold records about regulation or supervision
of financial institutions. Exemption 9 permits the withholding of geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
§ 402.155
Records available for public inspection.
(a) Under the FOIA, SSA is required to make available for public inspection in an electronic format:
(1) Final opinions made in the adjudication of cases;
(2) An agency's statements and interpretations of policy that have been adopted but are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions that affect the public; and
(4) Copies of records, regardless of form or format, that an agency determines will likely become the subject of subsequent requests, as well as records that have been requested and released three or more times, unless said materials are published and copies are offered to sale.
(b) SSA will not use or cite instructional manuals issued to our employees, general statements of policy, and other materials which are used in processing claims as a precedent for an action against a person unless we have indexed the record and published it or made it available, or unless the person has timely notice of the record.
(c) Records that SSA makes available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through
www.ssa.gov
free of charge. Such records include:
(1) Compilation of Social Security Laws and Regulations;
(2) SSA regulations under the retirement, survivors, disability, and supplemental security income programs,
i.e.,
20 CFR parts 401, 402, 404, 416, and 422;
(3) Social Security Handbook;
(4) Social Security Rulings and Acquiescence Rulings;
(5) SSA's Public Programs Operations Manual System;
(6) SSA's Organizational Structure;
(7) State and Local Coverage Handbook for State Social Security Administrators; and
(8) SSA's Public Hearings, Appeals, and Litigation Law Manual.
§ 402.160
Where records are published.
(a)
Methods of publication.
Materials we are required to publish pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and (a)(2), we publish in one of the following ways:
(1) By publication in the
Federal Register
of Social Security Administration regulations, and by their subsequent inclusion in the Code of Federal Regulations;
(2) By publication in the
Federal Register
of appropriate general notices;
(3) By other forms of publication, when incorporated by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register;
(4) By publication in the “Social Security Rulings” of indexes of precedential social security orders and opinions issued in the adjudication of claims, statements of policy and interpretations that have been adopted but have not been published in the
Federal Register
;
and
(5) By posting in the FOIA library.
(b)
Publication of rulings.
Although not required pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and (a)(2), we publish the following rulings in the
Federal Register
and by other forms of publication:
(1) We publish Social Security Rulings in the
Federal Register
under the authority of the Commissioner of Social Security. They are binding on all components of SSA. These rulings represent precedent final opinions and orders and statements of policy and interpretations that we have adopted.
(2) We publish Social Security Acquiescence Rulings in the
Federal Register
under the authority of the Commissioner of Social Security. They are binding on all components of SSA, except with respect to claims subject to the relitigation procedures established in 20 CFR 404.985(c) and 416.1485(c). For a description of Social Security Acquiescence Rulings, see 20 CFR 404.985(b) and 416.1485(b).
§ 402.165
Publications for sale through the Government Publishing Office.
The public may purchase publications containing information pertaining to the program, organization,
functions, and procedures of SSA from the electronic U.S. Government Bookstore maintained by the Government Publishing Office. The publications for sale include but are not limited to:
(a) Title 20, parts 400 through 499, of the Code of Federal Regulations;
(b)
Federal Register
issues; and
(c) Compilation of the Social Security Laws.
Pt. 403

# PART 403—TESTIMONY BY EMPLOYEES AND THE PRODUCTION OF RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
403.100
When can an SSA employee testify or produce information or records in legal proceedings?
403.105
What is the relationship between this part and 20 CFR parts 401 and 402?
403.110
What special definitions apply to this part?
403.115
When does this part apply?
403.120
How do you request testimony?
403.125
How will we handle requests for records, information, or testimony involving SSA's Office of the Inspector General?
403.130
What factors may the Commissioner consider in determining whether SSA will grant your application for testimony?
403.135
What happens to your application for testimony?
403.140
If the Commissioner authorizes testimony, what will be the scope and form of that testimony?
403.145
What will SSA do if you have not satisfied the conditions in this part or in 20 CFR part 401 or 402?
403.150
Is there a fee for our services?
403.155
Does SSA certify records?

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 1106 of the Act, (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1306); 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 9701.

# Source:
66 FR 2809, Jan. 12, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 403.100
When can an SSA employee testify or produce information or records in legal proceedings?
An SSA employee can testify concerning any function of SSA or any information or record created or acquired by SSA as a result of the discharge of its official duties in any legal proceeding covered by this part only with the prior authorization of the Commissioner. An SSA employee can provide records or other information in a legal proceeding covered by this part only to the extent that doing so is consistent with 20 CFR parts 401 and 402. A request for both testimony and records or other information is considered two separate requests—one for testimony and one for records or other information. SSA maintains a policy of strict impartiality with respect to private litigants and seeks to minimize the disruption of official duties.
§ 403.105
What is the relationship between this part and 20 CFR parts 401 and 402?
(a)
General.
Disclosure of SSA's records and information contained in those records is governed by the regulations at 20 CFR parts 401 and 402. SSA employees will not disclose records or information in any legal proceeding covered by this part except as permitted by 20 CFR parts 401 and 402.
(b)
Requests for information or records that do not include testimony.
(1) If you do not request testimony, §§ 403.120-403.140 do not apply.
(2) If 20 CFR part 401 or 402 permits disclosure to you of any requested record or information, we will make every reasonable effort to provide the disclosable information or record to you on or before the date specified in your request.
(3) If neither 20 CFR part 401 nor 402 permits disclosure of information or a record you request, we will notify you as provided in § 403.145. We will also send you any notices required by part 401 or 402.
§ 403.110
What special definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply:
(a)
Application
means a written request for testimony that conforms to the requirements of § 403.120.
(b)(1)
Employee
includes—
(i) Any person employed in any capacity by SSA, currently or in the past;
(ii) Any person appointed by, or subject to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control of SSA, the Commissioner of Social Security, or any other SSA official, currently or in the past; and
(iii) Any person who is not described elsewhere in this definition but whose
disclosure of information is subject to the regulations at 20 CFR part 401, currently or in the past.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), a person subject to SSA's jurisdiction or control includes any person hired as a contractor by SSA, any person performing services for SSA under an agreement (such as an officer or employee of a State agency involved in determining disability for SSA), and any consultant (including medical or vocational experts or medical services or consultative examination providers), contractor, or subcontractor of such person. Such a person would also include any person who has served or is serving in any advisory capacity, formal or informal.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (b), a person employed by SSA in the past is considered an employee only when the matter about which the person would testify is one in which he or she was personally involved while at SSA; where the matter concerns official information that the employee acquired while working, such as sensitive or confidential agency information; where the person purports to speak for SSA; or where significant SSA resources would be required to prepare the person to testify. Such a person would not be considered an employee when the person will rely only on expertise or general knowledge he or she acquired while working at SSA.
(c)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security or his or her designee(s).
(d)
Legal proceeding
includes any pretrial, trial, and post-trial stage of any existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative action, hearing, investigation, or similar proceeding before a court, commission, board, agency, or other tribunal, authority or entity, foreign or domestic.
Legal proceeding
also includes any deposition or other pretrial proceeding, including a formal or informal request for testimony by an attorney or any other person.
(e)
Record
has the same meaning as “record” in 20 CFR 402.30.
(f)
Request
means any attempt to obtain the production, disclosure, or release of information, records, or the testimony of an SSA employee, including any order, subpoena, or other command issued in a legal proceeding as well as any informal or other attempt (by any method) by a party or a party's representative.
(g)
SSA
means the Social Security Administration.
(h)
Testimony
includes any sworn statement (oral or written), including (but not limited to)—
(1) Any statement provided through personal appearance; deposition; or recorded interview; or provided by telephone, television, or videotape;
(2) Any response during discovery or other similar proceedings that would involve more than the mere physical production of records; and
(3) Any declaration made under penalty of perjury or any affidavit.
(i)
We
or
our
means the Social Security Administration.
(j)
You
or
your
means an individual or entity that submits a request for records, information or testimony.
§ 403.115
When does this part apply?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to any request in connection with any legal proceeding for SSA records or other information or for testimony from SSA or its employees. This part applies to requests for testimony related to SSA's functions or to any information or record created or acquired by SSA as a result of the discharge of its official duties.
(b) This part does not apply to requests for testimony—
(1) In an SSA administrative proceeding;
(2) In a legal proceeding to which SSA is a party (“SSA” here includes the Commissioner and any employee acting in his or her official capacity);
(3) From the United States Department of Justice;
(4) In a criminal proceeding in which the United States is a party;
(5) In a legal proceeding initiated by state or local authorities arising from an investigation or audit initiated by, or conducted in cooperation with, SSA's Office of the Inspector General;
(6) From either house of Congress;
(7) In a law enforcement proceeding related to threats or acts against SSA, its employees, or its operations (“SSA”
here includes the Commissioner and any employee acting in his or her official capacity); or
(8) Where Federal law or regulations expressly require a Federal employee to provide testimony.
§ 403.120
How do you request testimony?
(a) You must submit a written application for testimony of an SSA employee. Your application must-
(1) Describe in detail the nature and relevance of the testimony sought in the legal proceeding;
(2) Include a detailed explanation as to why you need the testimony, why you cannot obtain the information you need from an alternative source, and why providing it to you would be in SSA's interest; and
(3) Provide the date and time that you need the testimony and the place where SSA would present it.
(b) You must submit a complete application to SSA at least 30 days in advance of the date that you need the testimony. If your application is submitted fewer than 30 days before that date, you must provide, in addition to the requirements set out above, a detailed explanation as to why—
(1) You did not apply in a timely fashion; and
(2) It is in SSA's interest to review the untimely application.
(c) You must send your application for testimony to: Office of the General Counsel, Office of General Law, Social Security Administration, Attn: Touhy Officer, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD, 21235. If you are requesting testimony of an employee of the Office of the Inspector General, send your application to the address in § 403.125.
(d) The Commissioner has the sole discretion to waive any requirement in this section.
(e) If your application does not include each of the items required by paragraph (a) of this section, we may return it to you for additional information. Unless the Commissioner waives one or more requirements, we will not process an incomplete or untimely application.
[66 FR 2809, Jan. 12, 2001; 66 FR 14316, Mar. 12, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 26002, May 8, 2008; 74 FR 16327, Apr. 10, 2009; 79 FR 7577, Feb. 10, 2014; 88 FR 1329, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 403.125
How will we handle requests for records, information, or testimony involving SSA's Office of the Inspector General?
A request for records or information of the Office of the Inspector General or the testimony of an employee of the Office of the Inspector General will be handled in accordance with the provisions of this part, except that the Inspector General or the Inspector General's designee will make those determinations that the Commissioner otherwise would make. Send your request for records or information pertaining to the Office of the Inspector General or your application for testimony of an employee of the Office of the Inspector General to: Office of the Inspector General, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Room 3-ME-1, Baltimore, MD 21235. Requests may also be sent via email to
SSA.OIG.Touhy.Requests@ssa.gov.
[66 FR 2809, Jan. 12, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 1329, Jan. 10, 2023]
§ 403.130
What factors may the Commissioner consider in determining whether SSA will grant your application for testimony?
In deciding whether to authorize the testimony of an SSA employee, the Commissioner will consider applicable law and factors relating to your need and the burden to SSA. The considerations include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a)
Risk of law violation or compromise of Government privilege.
(1) Would providing the testimony violate a statute (such as 26 U.S.C. 6103 or section 1106 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1306), Executive Order, or regulation (such as 20 CFR part 401)?
(2) Would providing the testimony put confidential, sensitive, or privileged information at risk?
(b)
Burden on SSA.
(1) Would granting the application unduly expend for private purposes the resources of the United States (including the time of
SSA employees needed for official duties)?
(2) Would the testimony be available in a less burdensome form or from another source?
(3) Would the testimony be limited to the purpose of the request?
(4) Did you previously request the same testimony in the same or a related proceeding?
(c)
Interests served by allowing testimony.
(1) Would providing the testimony serve SSA's interest?
(2) Would providing the testimony maintain SSA's policy of impartiality among private litigants?
(3) Is another government agency involved in the proceeding?
(4) Do you need the testimony to prevent fraud or similar misconduct?
(5) Would providing the testimony be necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice or to preserve the rights of an accused individual to due process in a criminal proceeding?
§ 403.135
What happens to your application for testimony?
(a) If 20 CFR part 401 or 402 does not permit disclosure of information about which you seek testimony from an SSA employee, we will notify you under § 403.145.
(b) If 20 CFR part 401 or 402 permits disclosure of the information about which you seek testimony,
(1) The Commissioner makes the final decision on your application;
(2) All final decisions are in the sole discretion of the Commissioner; and
(3) We will notify you of the final decision on your application.
§ 403.140
If the Commissioner authorizes testimony, what will be the scope and form of that testimony?
The employee's testimony must be limited to matters that were specifically approved. We will provide testimony in the form that is least burdensome to SSA unless you provide sufficient information in your application for SSA to justify a different form. For example, we will provide an affidavit or declaration rather than a deposition and a deposition rather than trial testimony.
§ 403.145
What will SSA do if you have not satisfied the conditions in this part or in 20 CFR part 401 or 402?
(a) We will provide the following information, as appropriate, to you or the court or other tribunal conducting the legal proceeding if your request states that a response is due on a particular date and the conditions prescribed in this part, or the conditions for disclosure in 20 CFR part 401 or 402, are not satisfied or we anticipate that they will not be satisfied by that date:
(1) A statement that compliance with the request is not authorized under 20 CFR part 401 or 402, or is prohibited without the Commissioner's approval;
(2) The requirements for obtaining the approval of the Commissioner for testimony or for obtaining information, records, or testimony under 20 CFR part 401 or 402; and
(3) If the request complies with § 403.120, the estimated time necessary for a decision. We will make every reasonable effort to provide this information in writing on or before the date specified in your request.
(b) Generally, if a response to a request for information, records, or testimony is due before the conditions of this part or the conditions for disclosure in 20 CFR part 401 or 402 are met, no SSA employee will appear.
(c) SSA will seek the advice and assistance of the Department of Justice when appropriate.
§ 403.150
Is there a fee for our services?
(a)
General.
Unless the Commissioner grants a waiver, you must pay fees for our services in providing information, records, or testimony. You must pay the fees as prescribed by the Commissioner. In addition, the Commissioner may require that you pay the fees in advance as a condition of providing the information, records, or testimony. Make fees payable to the Social Security Administration by check or money order.
(b)
Records or information.
Unless the Commissioner grants a waiver, you must pay the fees for production of records or information prescribed in 20 CFR §§ 401.95 and 402.155 through 402.185, as appropriate.
(c)
Testimony.
Unless the Commissioner grants a waiver, you must pay fees calculated to reimburse the United States Government for the full cost of providing the testimony. Those costs include, but are not limited to—
(1) The salary or wages of the witness and related costs for the time necessary to prepare for and provide the testimony and any travel time, and
(2) Other travel costs.
(d)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
The Commissioner may waive or reduce fees for providing information, records, or testimony under this part. The rules in 20 CFR § 402.185 apply in determining whether to waive fees for the production of records. In deciding whether to waive or reduce fees for testimony or for production of information that does not constitute a record, the Commissioner may consider other factors, including but not limited to—
(1) The ability of the party responsible for the application to pay the full amount of the chargeable fees;
(2) The public interest, as described in 20 CFR § 402.185, affected by complying with the application;
(3) The need for the testimony or information in order to prevent a miscarriage of justice;
(4) The extent to which providing the testimony or information serves SSA's interest; and
(5) The burden on SSA's resources required to provide the information or testimony.
§ 403.155
Does SSA certify records?
We can certify the authenticity of copies of records we disclose pursuant to 20 CFR parts 401 and 402, and this part. We will provide this service only in response to your written request. If we certify, we will do so at the time of the disclosure and will not certify copies of records that have left our custody. A request for certified copies of records previously released is considered a new request for records. Fees for this certification are set forth in 20 CFR 402.165(e).
Pt. 404

# PART 404—FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS AND DISABILITY INSURANCE (1950- )

# Subpart A—Introduction, General Provisions and Definitions
Sec.
404.1
Introduction.
404.2
General definitions and use of terms.
404.3
General provisions.

# Subpart B—Insured Status and Quarters of Coverage

# General
404.101
Introduction.
404.102
Definitions.

# Fully Insured Status
404.110
How we determine fully insured status.
404.111
When we consider a person fully insured based on World War II active military or naval service.
404.112
When we consider certain employees of private nonprofit organizations to be fully insured.
404.115
Table for determining the quarters of coverage you need to be fully insured.

# Currently Insured Status
404.120
How we determine currently insured status.

# Disability Insured Status
404.130
How we determine disability insured status.
404.131
When you must have disability insured status.
404.132
How we determine fully insured status for a period of disability or disability insurance benefits.
404.133
When we give you quarters of coverage based on military service to establish a period of disability.

# Quarters of Coverage
404.140
What is a quarter of coverage.
404.141
How we credit quarters of coverage for calendar years before 1978.
404.142
How we credit self-employment income to calendar quarters for taxable years beginning before 1978.
404.143
How we credit quarters of coverage for calendar years after 1977.
404.144
How we credit self-employment income to calendar years for taxable years beginning after 1977.
404.145
When you acquire a quarter of coverage.
404.146
When a calendar quarter cannot be a quarter of coverage.
Appendix to Subpart B of Part 404—Quarter of Coverage Amounts for Calendar Years After 1978

# Subpart C—Computing Primary Insurance Amounts

# General
404.201
What is included in this subpart?
404.202
Other regulations related to this subpart.
404.203
Definitions.
404.204
Methods of computing primary insurance amounts—general.

# Average-Indexed-Monthly Earnings Method of Computing Primary Insurance Amounts
404.210
Average-indexed-monthly-earnings method.
404.211
Computing your average indexed monthly earnings.
404.212
Computing your primary insurance amount from your average indexed monthly earnings.
404.213
Computation where you are eligible for a pension based on your noncovered employment.

# Average-Monthly-Wage Method of Computing Primary Insurance Amounts
404.220
Average-monthly-wage method.
404.221
Computing your average monthly wage.
404.222
Use of benefit table in finding your primary insurance amount from your average monthly wage.

# Guaranteed Alternative for People Reaching Age 62 After 1978 but Before 1984
404.230
Guaranteed alternative.
404.231
Steps in computing your primary insurance amount under the guaranteed alternative—general.
404.232
Computing your average monthly wage under the guaranteed alternative.
404.233
Adjustment of your guaranteed alternative when you become entitled after age 62.

# Old-Start Method of Computing Primary Insurance Amounts
404.240
Old-start method—general.
404.241
1977 simplified old-start method.
404.242
Use of old-start primary insurance amount as guaranteed alternative.
404.243
Computation where you are eligible for a pension based on noncovered employment.

# Special Computation Rules for People Who Had a Period of Disability
404.250
Special computation rules for people who had a period of disability.
404.251
Subsequent entitlement to benefits less than 12 months after entitlement to disability benefits ended.
404.252
Subsequent entitlement to benefits 12 months or more after entitlement to disability benefits ended.

# Special Minimum Primary Insurance Amounts
404.260
Special minimum primary insurance amounts.
404.261
Computing your special minimum primary insurance amount.

# Cost-of-Living Increases
404.270
Cost-of-living increases.
404.271
When automatic cost-of-living increases apply.
404.272
Indexes we use to measure the rise in the cost-of-living.
404.273
When are automatic cost-of-living increases effective?
404.274
What are the measuring periods we use to calculate cost-of-living increases?
404.275
How is an automatic cost-of-living increase calculated?
404.276
Publication of notice of increase.
404.277
When does the frozen minimum primary insurance amount increase because of cost-of-living adjustments?
404.278
Additional cost-of-living increase.

# Recomputing Your Primary Insurance Amount
404.280
Recomputations.
404.281
Why your primary insurance amount may be recomputed.
404.282
Effective date of recomputations.
404.283
Recomputation under method other than that used to find your primary insurance amount.
404.284
Recomputations for people who reach age 62, or become disabled, or die before age 62 after 1978.
404.285
Recomputations performed automatically.
404.286
How to request an immediate recomputation.
404.287
Waiver of recomputation.
404.288
Recomputing when you are entitled to a monthly pension based on noncovered employment.

# Recalculations of Primary Insurance Amounts
404.290
Recalculations.
Appendixes to Subpart C of Part 404—Note
Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 404—Average of the Total Wages for Years After 1950
Appendix II to Subpart C of Part 404—Benefit Formulas Used With Average Indexed Monthly Earnings
Appendix III to Subpart C of Part 404—Benefit Table
Appendix IV to Subpart C of Part 404—Earnings Needed for a Year of Coverage After 1950
Appendix V to Subpart C of Part 404—Computing the Special Minimum Primary Insurance Amount and Related Maximum Family Benefits
Appendix VI to Subpart C of Part 404—Percentage of Automatic Increases in Primary Insurance Amounts Since 1978
Appendix VII to Subpart C of Part 404—“Old-Law” Contribution and Benefit Base

# Subpart D—Old-Age, Disability, Dependents' and Survivors' Insurance Benefits; Period of Disability

# General
404.301
Introduction.
404.302
Other regulations related to this subpart.
404.303
Definitions.
404.304
What are the general rules on benefit amounts?
404.305
When you may not be entitled to benefits.

# Old-Age and Disability Benefits
404.310
When am I entitled to old-age benefits?
404.311
When does my entitlement to old-age benefits begin and end?
404.312
How is my old-age benefit amount calculated?
404.313
What are delayed retirement credits and how do they increase my old-age benefit amount?
404.315
Who is entitled to disability benefits?
404.316
When entitlement to disability benefits begins and ends.
404.317
How is the amount of my disability benefit calculated?
404.320
Who is entitled to a period of disability.
404.321
When a period of disability begins and ends.
404.322
When you may apply for a period of disability after a delay due to a physical or mental condition.
404.325
The termination month.

# Rules Relating to Continuation of Benefits After Your Impairment Is No Longer Disabling
404.327
When you are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services.
404.328
When your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.

# Benefits for Spouses and Divorced Spouses
404.330
Who is entitled to wife's or husband's benefits.
404.331
Who is entitled to wife's or husband's benefits as a divorced spouse.
404.332
When wife's and husband's benefits begin and end.
404.333
Wife's and husband's benefit amounts.
404.335
How do I become entitled to widow's or widower's benefits?
404.336
How do I become entitled to widow's or widower's benefits as a surviving divorced spouse?
404.337
When does my entitlement to widow's and widower's benefits start and end?
404.338
Widow's and widower's benefits amounts.
404.339
How do I become entitled to mother's or father's benefits as a surviving spouse?
404.340
How do I become entitled to mother's or father's benefits as a surviving divorced spouse?
404.341
When mother's and father's benefits begin and end.
404.342
Mother's and father's benefit amounts.
404.344
Your relationship by marriage to the insured.
404.345
Your relationship as wife, husband, widow, or widower under State law.
404.346
Your relationship as wife, husband, widow, or widower based upon a deemed valid marriage.
404.347
“Living in the same household” defined.
404.348
When is a child living with me in my care?
404.349
When is a child living apart from me in my care?

# Child's Benefits
404.350
Who is entitled to child's benefits?
404.351
Who may be reentitled to child's benefits?
404.352
When does my entitlement to child's benefits begin and end?
404.353
Child's benefit amounts.
404.354
Your relationship to the insured.
404.355
Who is the insured's natural child?
404.356
Who is the insured's legally adopted child?
404.357
Who is the insured's stepchild?
404.358
Who is the insured's grandchild or stepgrandchild?
404.359
Who is the insured's equitably adopted child?
404.360
When a child is dependent upon the insured person.
404.361
When a natural child is dependent.
404.362
When a legally adopted child is dependent.
404.363
When is a stepchild dependent?
404.364
When is a grandchild or stepgrandchild dependent?
404.365
When an equitably adopted child is dependent.
404.366
“Contributions for support,” “one-half support,” and “living with” the insured defined—determining first month of entitlement.
404.367
When you are a “full-time elementary or secondary school student”.
404.368
When you are considered a full-time student during a period of nonattendance.

# Parent's Benefits
404.370
Who is entitled to parent's benefits?
404.371
When parent's benefits begin and end.
404.373
Parent's benefit amounts.
404.374
Parent's relationship to the insured.
404.380-404.384
[Reserved]

# Lump-Sum Death Payment
404.390
General.
404.391
Who is entitled to the lump-sum death payment as a widow or widower who was living in the same household?
404.392
Who is entitled to the lump-sum death payment when there is no widow(er) who was living in the same household?

# Subpart E—Deductions; Reductions; and Nonpayments of Benefits
404.401
Deduction, reduction, and nonpayment of monthly benefits or lump-sum death payments.
404.401a
When we do not pay benefits because of a disability beneficiary's work activity.
404.402
Interrelationship of deductions, reductions, adjustments, and nonpayment of benefits.
404.403
Reduction where total monthly benefits exceed maximum family benefits payable.
404.404
How reduction for maximum affects insured individual and other persons entitled on his earnings record.
404.405
Situations where total benefits can exceed maximum because of “savings clause.”
404.406
Reduction for maximum because of retroactive effect of application for monthly benefits.
404.407
Reduction because of entitlement to other benefits.
404.408
Reduction of benefits based on disability on account of receipt of certain other disability benefits provided under Federal, State, or local laws or plans.
404.408a
Reduction where spouse is receiving a Government pension.
404.408b
Reduction of retroactive monthly social security benefits where supplemental security income (SSI) payments were received for the same period.
404.409
What is full retirement age?
404.410
How does SSA reduce my benefits when my entitlement begins before full retirement age?
404.411
How are benefits reduced for age when a person is entitled to two or more benefits?
404.412
After my benefits are reduced for age when and how will adjustments to that reduction be made?
404.413
After my benefits are reduced for age what happens if there is an increase in my primary insurance amount?
404.415
Deductions because of excess earnings.
404.417
Deductions because of noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States; 45 hour and 7-day work test.
404.418
“Noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States,” defined.
404.420
Persons deemed entitled to benefits based on an individual's earnings record.
404.421
How are deductions made when a beneficiary fails to have a child in his or her care?
404.423
Manner of making deductions.
404.424
Total amount of deductions where more than one deduction event occurs in a month.
404.425
Total amount of deductions where deduction events occur in more than 1 month.
404.428
Earnings in a taxable year.
404.429
Earnings; defined.
404.430
Monthly and annual exempt amounts defined; excess earnings defined.
404.434
Excess earnings; method of charging.
404.435
Excess earnings; months to which excess earnings can or cannot be charged; grace year defined.
404.436
Excess earnings; months to which excess earnings cannot be charged because individual is deemed not entitled to benefits.
404.437
Excess earnings; benefit rate subject to deductions because of excess earnings.
404.439
Partial monthly benefits; excess earnings of the individual charged against his benefits and the benefits of persons entitled (or deemed entitled) to benefits on his earnings record.
404.440
Partial monthly benefits; prorated share of partial payment exceeds the benefit before deduction for excess earnings.
404.441
Partial monthly benefits; insured individual and another person entitled (or deemed entitled) on the same earnings record both have excess earnings.
404.446
Definition of “substantial services” and “services”.
404.447
Evaluation of factors involved in substantial services test.
404.450
Required reports of work outside the United States or failure to have care of a child.
404.451
Penalty deductions for failure to report within prescribed time limit noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child.
404.452
Reports to Social Security Administration of earnings; wages; net earnings from self-employment.
404.453
Penalty deductions for failure to report earnings timely.
404.454
Good cause for failure to make required reports.
404.455
Request by Social Security Administration for reports of earnings and estimated earnings; effect of failure to comply with request.
404.456
Current suspension of benefits because an individual works or engages in self-employment.
404.457
Deductions where taxes neither deducted from wages of certain maritime employees nor paid.
404.458
Limiting deductions where total family benefits payable would not be affected or would be only partly affected.
404.459
Penalty for making false or misleading statements or withholding information.
404.460
Nonpayment of monthly benefits to aliens outside the United States.
404.461
Nonpayment of lump sum after death of alien outside United States for more than 6 months.
404.462
Nonpayment of hospital and medical insurance benefits of alien outside United States for more than 6 months.
404.463
Nonpayment of benefits of aliens outside the United States; “foreign social insurance system,” and “treaty obligation” exceptions defined.
404.464
How does deportation or removal from the United States affect the receipt of benefits?
404.465
Conviction for subversive activities; effect on monthly benefits and entitlement to hospital insurance benefits.
404.466
Conviction for subversive activities; effect on enrollment for supplementary medical insurance benefits.
404.467
Nonpayment of benefits; individual entitled to disability insurance benefits or childhood disability benefits based on statutory blindness is engaging in substantial gainful activity.
404.468
Nonpayment of benefits to prisoners.
404.469
Nonpayment of benefits where individual has not furnished or applied for a Social Security number.
404.470
Nonpayment of disability benefits due to noncompliance with rules regarding treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism.
404.471
Nonpayment of disability benefits for trial work period service months upon a conviction of fraudulently concealing work activity.
404.480
Paying benefits in installments: Drug addiction or alcoholism.

# Subpart F—Overpayments, Underpayments, Waiver of Adjustment or Recovery of Overpayments, and Liability of a Certifying Officer
404.501
General applicability of section 204 of the Act.
404.502
Overpayments.
404.502a
Notice of right to waiver consideration.
404.503
Underpayments.
404.504
Relation to provisions for reductions and increases.
404.505
Relationship to provisions requiring deductions.
404.506
When waiver may be applied and how to process the request.
404.507
Fault.
404.508
Defeat the purpose of Title II.
404.509
Against equity and good conscience; defined.
404.510
When an individual is “without fault” in a deduction overpayment.
404.510a
When an individual is “without fault” in an entitlement overpayment.
404.511
When an individual is at “fault” in a deduction overpayment.
404.512
When adjustment or recovery of an overpayment will be waived.
404.513
Liability of a certifying officer.
404.515
Collection and compromise of claims for overpayment.
404.520
Referral of overpayments to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset—General.
404.521
Notice to overpaid persons.
404.522
Review within SSA that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable.
404.523
Findings by SSA.
404.524
Review of our records related to the overpayment.
404.525
Suspension of offset.
404.526
Tax refund insufficient to cover amount of overpayment.
404.527
Additional methods for recovery of title II benefit overpayments.
404.530
Are title VIII and title XVI benefits subject to adjustment to recover title II overpayments?
404.535
How much will we withhold from your title VIII and title XVI benefits to recover a title II overpayment?
404.540
Will you receive notice of our intention to apply cross-program recovery?
404.545
When will we begin cross-program recovery from current monthly benefits?

# Subpart G—Filing of Applications and Other Forms

# General Provisions
404.601
Introduction.
404.602
Definitions.
404.603
You must file an application to receive benefits.

# Applications
404.610
What makes an application a claim for benefits?
404.611
How do I file an application for Social Security benefits?
404.612
Who may sign an application.
404.613
Evidence of authority to sign an application for another.
404.614
When an application or other form is considered filed.
404.615
Claimant must be alive when an application is filed.
404.617
Pilot program for photographic identification of disability benefit applicants in designated geographic areas.

# Effective Filing Period of Application
404.620
Filing before the first month you meet the requirements for benefits.
404.621
What happens if I file after the first month I meet the requirements for benefits?
404.622
Limiting an application.
404.623
Am I required to file for all benefits if I am eligible for old-age and husband's or wife's benefits?

# Filing Date Based on Written Statement
404.630
Use of date of written statement as filing date.
404.631
Statements filed with the Railroad Retirement Board.
404.632
Statements filed with a hospital.

# Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
404.633
Deemed filing date in a case of misinformation.

# Withdrawal of Application
404.640
Withdrawal of an application.
404.641
Cancellation of a request to withdraw.

# Subpart H—Evidence

# General
404.701
Introduction.
404.702
Definitions.
404.703
When evidence is needed.
404.704
Your responsibility for giving evidence.
404.705
Failure to give requested evidence.
404.706
Where to give evidence.
404.707
Original records or copies as evidence.
404.708
How we decide what is enough evidence.
404.709
Preferred evidence and other evidence.

# Evidence of Age, Marriage, and Death
404.715
When evidence of age is needed.
404.716
Type of evidence of age to be given.
404.720
Evidence of a person's death.
404.721
Evidence to presume a person is dead.
404.722
Rebuttal of a presumption of death.
404.723
When evidence of marriage is required.
404.725
Evidence of a valid ceremonial marriage.
404.726
Evidence of common-law marriage.
404.727
Evidence of a deemed valid marriage.
404.728
Evidence a marriage has ended.

# Evidence for Child's and Parent's Benefits
404.730
When evidence of a parent or child relationship is needed.
404.731
Evidence you are a natural parent or child.
404.732
Evidence you are a stepparent or stepchild.
404.733
Evidence you are the legally adopting parent or legally adopted child.
404.734
Evidence you are an equitably adopted child.
404.735
Evidence you are the grandchild or stepgrandchild.
404.736
Evidence of a child's dependency.
404.745
Evidence of school attendance for child age 18 or older.
404.750
Evidence of a parent's support.

# Other Evidence Requirements
404.760
Evidence of living in the same household with insured person.
404.762
What is acceptable evidence of having a child in my care?
404.770
Evidence of where the insured person had a permanent home.
404.780
Evidence of “good cause” for exceeding time limits on accepting proof of support or application for a lump-sum death payment.

# Subpart I—Records of Earnings

# General Provisions
404.801
Introduction.
404.802
Definitions.
404.803
Conclusiveness of the record of your earnings.

# Obtaining Earnings Information
404.810
How to obtain a statement of earnings and a benefit estimate statement.
404.811
The statement of earnings and benefit estimates you requested.
404.812
Statement of earnings and benefit estimates sent without request.

# Correcting the Earnings Record
404.820
Filing a request for correction of the record of your earnings.
404.821
Correction of the record of your earnings before the time limit ends.
404.822
Correction of the record of your earnings after the time limit ends.
404.823
Correction of the record of your earnings for work in the employ of the United States.

# Notice of Removal or Reduction of an Entry of Earnings
404.830
Notice of removal or reduction of your wages.
404.831
Notice of removal or reduction of your self-employment income.

# Subpart J—Determinations, Administrative Review Process, and Reopening of Determinations and Decisions

# Introduction, Definitions, and Initial Determinations
404.900
Introduction.
404.901
Definitions.
404.902
Administrative actions that are initial determinations.
404.903
Administrative actions that are not initial determinations.
404.904
Notice of the initial determination.
404.905
Effect of an initial determination.
404.906
Testing modifications to the disability determination procedures.

# Reconsideration
404.907
Reconsideration—general.
404.908
Parties to a reconsideration.
404.909
How to request reconsideration.
404.911
Good cause for missing the deadline to request review.
404.913
Reconsideration procedures.
404.914
Disability hearing—general.
404.915
Disability hearing—disability hearing officers.
404.916
Disability hearing—procedures.
404.917
Disability hearing—disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination.
404.918
Disability hearing—review of the disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination before it is issued.
404.919
Notice of another person's request for reconsideration.
404.920
Reconsidered determination.
404.921
Effect of a reconsidered determination.
404.922
Notice of a reconsidered determination.

# Expedited Appeals Process
404.923
Expedited appeals process—general.
404.924
When the expedited appeals process may be used.
404.925
How to request expedited appeals process.
404.926
Agreement in expedited appeals process.
404.927
Effect of expedited appeals process agreement.
404.928
Expedited appeals process request that does not result in agreement.

# Hearing Before an Administrative Law Judge
404.929
Hearing before an administrative law judge—general.
404.930
Availability of a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.932
Parties to a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.933
How to request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.935
Submitting written evidence to an administrative law judge.
404.936
Time, place, and manner of appearance for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.937
Protecting the safety of the public and our employees in our hearing process.
404.938
Notice of a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.939
Objections to the issues.
404.940
Disqualification of the administrative law judge.
404.941
Prehearing case review.
404.942
Prehearing proceedings and decisions by attorney advisors.
404.943
Responsibilities of the adjudication officer.

# Administrative Law Judge Hearing Procedures
404.944
Administrative law judge hearing procedures—general.
404.946
Issues before an administrative law judge.
404.948
Deciding a case without an oral hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.949
Presenting written statements and oral arguments.
404.950
Presenting evidence at a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.951
When a record of a hearing before an administrative law judge is made.
404.952
Consolidated hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.953
The decision of an administrative law judge.
404.955
The effect of a hearing decision.
404.956
Removal of a hearing request(s) to the Appeals Council.
404.957
Dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.958
Notice of dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.959
Effect of dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.960
Vacating a dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
404.961
Prehearing and posthearing conferences.
404.965
[Reserved]

# Appeals Council Review
404.966
[Reserved]
404.967
Appeals Council review—general.
404.968
How to request Appeals Council review.
404.969
Appeals Council initiates review.
404.970
Cases the Appeals Council will review.
404.971
Dismissal by Appeals Council.
404.972
Effect of dismissal of request for Appeals Council review.
404.973
Notice of Appeals Council review.
404.974
Obtaining evidence from Appeals Council.
404.975
Filing briefs with the Appeals Council.
404.976
Procedures before Appeals Council on review.
404.977
Case remanded by Appeals Council.
404.979
Decision of Appeals Council.
404.981
Effect of Appeals Council's decision or denial of review.
404.982
Extension of time to file action in Federal district court.

# Court Remand Cases
404.983
Case remanded by a Federal court.
404.984
Appeals Council review of hearing decision in a case remanded by a Federal court.
404.985
Application of circuit court law.

# Reopening and Revising Determinations and Decisions
404.987
Reopening and revising determinations and decisions.
404.988
Conditions for reopening.
404.989
Good cause for reopening.
404.990
Finality of determinations and decisions on revision of an earnings record.
404.991
Finality of determinations and decisions to suspend benefit payments for entire taxable year because of earnings.
404.991a
Late completion of timely investigation.
404.992
Notice of revised determination or decision.
404.993
Effect of revised determination or decision.
404.994
Time and place to request a hearing on revised determination or decision.
404.995
Finality of findings when later claim is filed on same earnings record.
404.996
Increase in future benefits where time period for reopening expires.

# Payment of Certain Travel Expenses
404.999a
Payment of certain travel expenses—general.
404.999b
Who may be reimbursed.
404.999c
What travel expenses are reimbursable.
404.999d
When and how to claim reimbursement.

# Subpart K—Employment, Wages, Self-Employment, and Self-Employment Income
404.1001
Introduction.
404.1002
Definitions.

# Employment
404.1003
Employment.
404.1004
What work is covered as employment?
404.1005
Who is an employee.
404.1006
Corporation officer.
404.1007
Common-law employee.
404.1008
Agent-driver or commission-driver, full-time life insurance salesman, home worker, or traveling or city salesman.
404.1009
Who is an employer.
404.1010
Farm crew leader as employer.

# Work Excluded From Employment
404.1012
Work excluded from employment.
404.1013
Included-excluded rule.
404.1014
Domestic service by a student for a local college club, fraternity or sorority.
404.1015
Family services.
404.1016
Foreign agricultural workers.
404.1017
Sharefarmers.
404.1018
Work by civilians for the United States Government or its instrumentalities—wages paid after 1983.
404.1018a
Work by civilians for the United States Government or its instrumentalities—remuneration paid prior to 1984.
404.1018b
Medicare qualified government employment.
404.1019
Work as a member of a uniformed service of the United States.
404.1020
Work for States and their political subdivisions and instrumentalities.
404.1021
Work for the District of Columbia.
404.1022
American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
404.1023
Ministers of churches and members of religious orders.
404.1024
Election of coverage by religious orders.
404.1025
Work for religious, charitable, educational, or certain other organizations exempt from income tax.
404.1026
Work for a church or qualified church-controlled organization.
404.1027
Railroad work.
404.1028
Student working for a school, college, or university.
404.1029
Student nurses.
404.1030
Delivery and distribution or sale of newspapers, shopping news, and magazines.
404.1031
Fishing.
404.1032
Work for a foreign government.
404.1033
Work for a wholly owned instrumentality of a foreign government.
404.1034
Work for an international organization.
404.1035
Work for a communist organization.
404.1036
Certain nonresident aliens.
404.1037
Work on or in connection with a non-American vessel or aircraft.
404.1038
Domestic employees under age 18.

# Exemption From Social Security by Reason of Religious Belief
404.1039
Employers (including partnerships) and employees who are both members of certain religious groups opposed to insurance.

# Wages
404.1041
Wages.
404.1042
Wages when paid and received.
404.1043
Facilities or privileges—meals and lodging.
404.1044
Vacation pay.
404.1045
Employee expenses.
404.1046
Pay for work by certain members of religious orders.
404.1047
Annual wage limitation.
404.1048
Contribution and benefit base after 1992.
404.1049
Payments under an employer plan or system.
404.1050
Retirement payments.
404.1051
Payments on account of sickness or accident disability, or related medical or hospitalization expenses.
404.1052
Payments from or to certain tax-exempt trusts or payments under or into certain annuity plans.
404.1053
“Qualified benefits” under a cafeteria plan.
404.1054
Payments by an employer of employee's tax or employee's contribution under State law.
404.1055
Payments for agricultural labor.
404.1056
Explanation of agricultural labor.
404.1057
Domestic service in the employer's home.
404.1058
Special situations.
404.1059
Deemed wages for certain individuals interned during World War II.
404.1060
[Reserved]

# Self-Employment
404.1065
Self-employment coverage.
404.1066
Trade or business in general.
404.1068
Employees who are considered self-employed.
404.1069
Real estate agents and direct sellers.
404.1070
Christian Science practitioners.
404.1071
Ministers and members of religious orders.
404.1073
Public office.
404.1074
Farm crew leader who is self-employed.
404.1075
Members of certain religious groups opposed to insurance.
404.1077
Individuals under railroad retirement system.

# Self-Employment Income
404.1080
Net earnings from self-employment.
404.1081
General rules for figuring net earnings from self-employment.
404.1082
Rentals from real estate; material participation.
404.1083
Dividends and interest.
404.1084
Gain or loss from disposition of property; capital assets; timber, coal, and iron ore; involuntary conversion.
404.1085
Net operating loss deduction.
404.1086
Community income.
404.1087
Figuring partner's net earnings from self-employment for taxable year which ends as a result of death.
404.1088
Retirement payment to retired partners.
404.1089
Figuring net earnings for residents and nonresidents of Puerto Rico.
404.1090
Personal exemption deduction.
404.1091
Figuring net earnings for ministers and members of religious orders.
404.1092
Figuring net earnings for U.S. citizens or residents living outside the United States.
404.1093
Possession of the United States.
404.1094
Options available for figuring net earnings from self-employment.
404.1095
Agricultural trade or business.
404.1096
Self-employment income.
Subpart L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Coverage of Employees of State and Local Governments

# General
404.1200
General.
404.1201
Scope of this subpart regarding coverage and wage reports and adjustments.
404.1202
Definitions.
404.1203
Evidence—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1204
Designating officials to act on behalf of the State.

# What Groups of Employees May Be Covered
404.1205
Absolute coverage groups.
404.1206
Retirement system coverage groups.
404.1207
Divided retirement system coverage groups.
404.1208
Ineligible employees.
404.1209
Mandatorily excluded services.
404.1210
Optionally excluded services.
404.1211
Interstate instrumentalities.
404.1212
Police officers and firefighters.

# How Coverage Under Agreements Is Obtained and Continues
404.1214
Agreement for coverage.
404.1215
Modification of agreement.
404.1216
Modification of agreement to correct an error.
404.1217
Continuation of coverage.
404.1218
Resumption of coverage.
404.1219
Dissolution of political subdivision.

# How To Identify Covered Employees
404.1220
Identification numbers.

# What Records of Coverage Must Be Kept
404.1225
Records—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# Review of Compliance by State With Its Agreement
404.1230
Onsite review program.
404.1231
Scope of review.
404.1232
Conduct of review.
404.1234
Reports of review's findings.

# How To Report Wages and Contributions—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1237
Wage reports and contribution returns—general—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1239
Wage reports for employees performing services in more than one coverage group—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1242
Back pay.
404.1243
Use of reporting forms—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1247
When to report wages—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1249
When and where to make deposits of contributions and to file contribution returns and wage reports—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1251
Final reports—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# What Is a State's Liability for Contributions—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1255
State's liability for contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1256
Limitation on State's liability for contributions for multiple employment situations—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# Figuring the Amount of the State's Contributions—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1260
Amount of contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1262
Manner of payment of contributions by State—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1263
When fractional part of a cent may be disregarded—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# If a State Fails To Make Timely Payments—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1265
Addition of interest to contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1267
Failure to make timely payments—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# How Errors in Reports and Contributions Are Adjusted—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1270
Adjustments in general—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1271
Adjustment of overpayment of contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1272
Refund or recomputation of overpayments which are not adjustable—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1275
Adjustment of employee contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1276
Reports and payments erroneously made to Internal Revenue Service-transfer of funds—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# How Overpayments of Contributions Are Credited or Refunded—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1280
Allowance of credits or refunds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1281
Credits or refunds for periods of time during which no liability exists—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1282
Time limitations on credits or refunds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1283
Exceptions to the time limitations on credits or refunds—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1284
Offsetting underpayments against overpayments—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# How Assessments for Underpayments of Contributions Are Made—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1285
Assessments of amounts due—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1286
Time limitations on assessments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1287
Exceptions to the time limitations on assessments—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1289
Payment after expiration of time limitation for assessment—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# Secretary's Review of Decisions on Credits, Refunds, or Assessments—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1290
Review of decisions by the Secretary—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1291
Reconsideration—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1292
How to request review—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1293
Time for filing request for review—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1294
Notification to State after reconsideration—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1295
Commissioner's review—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1296
Commissioner's notification to the State—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# How a State May Seek Court Review of Secretary's Decision—for Wages Paid Prior to 1987
404.1297
Review by court—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1298
Time for filing civil action—for wages paid prior to 1987.
404.1299
Final judgments—for wages paid prior to 1987.

# Subpart N—Wage Credits for Veterans and Members of the Uniformed Services

# General
404.1301
Introduction.
404.1302
Definitions.

# World War II Veterans
404.1310
Who is a World War II veteran.
404.1311
Ninety-day active service requirement for World War II veterans.
404.1312
World War II service included.
404.1313
World War II service excluded.

# Post-World War II Veterans
404.1320
Who is a post-World War II veteran.
404.1321
Ninety-day active service requirement for post-World War II veterans.
404.1322
Post-World War II service included.
404.1323
Post-World War II service excluded.

# Separation From Active Service
404.1325
Separation from active service under conditions other than dishonorable.

# Members of the Uniformed Services
404.1330
Who is a member of a uniformed service.

# Amounts of Wage Credits and Limits on Their Use
404.1340
Wage credits for World War II and post-World War II veterans.
404.1341
Wage credits for a member of a uniformed service.
404.1342
Limits on granting World War II and post-World War II wage credits.
404.1343
When the limits on granting World War II and post-World War II wage credits do not apply.

# Deemed Insured Status for World War II Veterans
404.1350
Deemed insured status.
404.1351
When deemed insured status does not apply.
404.1352
Benefits and payments based on deemed insured status.

# Effect of Other Benefits on Payment of Social Security Benefits and Payments
404.1360
Veterans Administration pension or compensation payable.
404.1361
Federal benefit payable other than by Veterans Administration.
404.1362
Treatment of social security benefits or payments where Veterans Administration pension or compensation payable.
404.1363
Treatment of social security benefits or payments where Federal benefit payable other than by Veterans Administration.

# Evidence of Active Service and Membership in a Uniformed Service
404.1370
Evidence of active service and separation from active service.
404.1371
Evidence of membership in a uniformed service during the years 1957 through 1967.

# Subpart O—Interrelationship of Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance Program With the Railroad Retirement Program
404.1401
What is the interrelationship between the Railroad Retirement Act and the Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance Program of the Social Security Act?
404.1402
When are railroad industry services by a non-vested worker covered under Social Security?
404.1404
Effective date of coverage of railroad services under the act.
404.1405
If you have been considered a non-vested worker, what are the situations when your railroad industry work will not be covered under Social Security?
404.1406
Eligibility to railroad retirement benefits as a bar to payment of social security benefits.
404.1407
When railroad retirement benefits do not bar payment of social security benefits.
404.1408
Compensation to be treated as wages.
404.1409
Purposes of using compensation.
404.1410
Presumption on basis of certified compensation record.
404.1412
Compensation quarters of coverage.
404.1413
When will we certify payment to the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB)?

# Subpart P—Determining Disability and Blindness

# General
404.1501
Scope of subpart.
404.1502
General definitions and terms for this subpart.

# Determinations
404.1503
Who makes disability and blindness determinations.
404.1503a
Program integrity.
404.1503b
Evidence from excluded medical sources of evidence.
404.1504
Determinations by other government agencies and nongovernmental entities.

# Definition of Disability
404.1505
Basic definition of disability.
404.1506
When we will not consider your impairment.
404.1508
[Reserved]
404.1509
How long the impairment must last.
404.1510
Meaning of substantial gainful activity.
404.1511
Definition of disabling impairment.

# Evidence
404.1512
Responsibility for evidence.
404.1513
Categories of evidence.
404.1513a
Evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants.
404.1514
When we will purchase existing evidence.
404.1515
Where and how to submit evidence.
404.1516
If you fail to submit medical and other evidence.
404.1517
Consultative examination at our expense.
404.1518
If you do not appear at a consultative examination.

# Standards To Be Used in Determining When a Consultative Examination Will Be Obtained in Connection With Disability Determinations
404.1519
The consultative examination.
404.1519a
When we will purchase a consultative examination and how we will use it.
404.1519b
When we will not purchase a consultative examination.

# Standards for the Type of Referral and for Report Content
404.1519f
Type of purchased examinations.
404.1519g
Who we will select to perform a consultative examination.
404.1519h
Your medical source.
404.1519i
Other sources for consultative examinations.
404.1519j
Objections to the medical source designated to perform the consultative examination.
404.1519k
Purchase of medical examinations, laboratory tests, and other services.
404.1519m
Diagnostic tests or procedures.
404.1519n
Informing the medical source of examination scheduling, report content, and signature requirements.
404.1519o
When a properly signed consultative examination report has not been received.
404.1519p
Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.
404.1519q
Conflict of interest.

# Authorizing and Monitoring the Referral Process
404.1519s
Authorizing and monitoring the consultative examination.

# Procedures To Monitor the Consultative Examination
404.1519t
Consultative examination oversight.

# Evaluation of Disability
404.1520
Evaluation of disability in general.
404.1520a
Evaluation of mental impairments.
404.1520b
How we consider evidence.
404.1520c
How we consider and articulate medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings for claims filed on or after March 27, 2017.
404.1521
Establishing that you have a medically determinable impairment(s).
404.1522
What we mean by an impairment(s) that is not severe.
404.1523
Multiple impairments.

# Medical Considerations
404.1525
Listing of Impairments in appendix 1.
404.1526
Medical equivalence.
404.1527
Evaluating opinion evidence for claims filed before March 27, 2017.
404.1528
[Reserved]
404.1529
How we evaluate symptoms, including pain.
404.1530
Need to follow prescribed treatment.
404.1535
How we will determine whether your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
404.1536
Treatment required for individuals whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
404.1537
What we mean by appropriate treatment.
404.1538
What we mean by approved institutions or facilities.
404.1539
How we consider whether treatment is available.
404.1540
Evaluating compliance with the treatment requirements.
404.1541
Establishment and use of referral and monitoring agencies.

# Residual Functional Capacity
404.1545
Your residual functional capacity.
404.1546
Responsibility for assessing your residual functional capacity.

# Vocational Considerations
404.1560
When we will consider your vocational background.
404.1562
Medical-vocational profiles showing an inability to make an adjustment to other work.
404.1563
Your age as a vocational factor.
404.1564
Your education as a vocational factor.
404.1565
Your work experience as a vocational factor.
404.1566
Work which exists in the national economy.
404.1567
Physical exertion requirements.
404.1568
Skill requirements.
404.1569
Listing of Medical-Vocational Guidelines in appendix 2.
404.1569a
Exertional and nonexertional limitations.

# Substantial Gainful Activity
404.1571
General.
404.1572
What we mean by substantial gainful activity.
404.1573
General information about work activity.
404.1574
Evaluation guides if you are an employee.
404.1574a
When and how we will average your earnings.
404.1575
Evaluation guides if you are self-employed.
404.1576
Impairment-related work expenses.

# Widows, Widowers, and Surviving Divorced Spouses
404.1577
Disability defined for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses for monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991.
404.1578
How we determine disability for widows, widowers, and surviving divorced spouses for monthly benefits payable for months prior to January 1991.
404.1579
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends.

# Blindness
404.1581
Meaning of blindness as defined in the law.
404.1582
A period of disability based on blindness.
404.1583
How we determine disability for blind persons who are age 55 or older.
404.1584
Evaluation of work activity of blind people.
404.1585
Trial work period for persons age 55 or older who are blind.
404.1586
Why and when we will stop your cash benefits.
404.1587
Circumstances under which we may suspend and terminate your benefits before we make a determination.

# Continuing or Stopping Disability
404.1588
Your responsibility to tell us of events that may change your disability status.
404.1589
We may conduct a review to find out whether you continue to be disabled.
404.1590
When and how often we will conduct a continuing disability review.
404.1591
If your medical recovery was expected and you returned to work.
404.1592
The trial work period.
404.1592a
The reentitlement period.
404.1592b
What is expedited reinstatement?
404.1592c
Who is entitled to expedited reinstatement?
404.1592d
How do I request reinstatement?
404.1592e
How do we determine provisional benefits?
404.1592f
How do we determine reinstated benefits?
404.1593
Medical evidence in continuing disability review cases.
404.1594
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends.
404.1595
When we determine that you are not now disabled.
404.1596
Circumstances under which we may suspend and terminate your benefits before we make a determination.
404.1597
After we make a determination that you are not now disabled.
404.1597a
Continued benefits pending appeal of a medical cessation determination.
404.1598
If you become disabled by another impairment(s).
404.1599
Work incentive experiments and rehabilitation demonstration projects in the disability program.
Appendix 1 to Subpart P of Part 404—Listing of Impairments
Appendix 2 to Subpart P of Part 404—Medical-Vocational Guidelines

# Subpart Q—Determinations of Disability

# General Provisions
404.1601
Purpose and scope.
404.1602
Definitions.
404.1603
Basic responsibilities for us and the State.

# Responsibilities for Performing the Disability Determination Function
404.1610
How a State notifies us that it wishes to perform the disability determination function.
404.1611
How we notify a State whether it may perform the disability determination function.
404.1613
Disability determinations the State makes.
404.1614
Responsibilities for obtaining evidence to make disability determinations.
404.1615
Making disability determinations.
404.1616
Medical consultants and psychological consultants.
404.1617
Reasonable efforts to obtain review by a physician, psychiatrist, and psychologist.
404.1618
Notifying claimants of the disability determination.

# Quick Disability Determinations
404.1619
Quick disability determination process.

# Administrative Responsibilities and Requirements
404.1620
General administrative requirements.
404.1621
Personnel.
404.1622
Training.
404.1623
Facilities.
404.1624
Medical and other purchased services.
404.1625
Records and reports.
404.1626
Fiscal.
404.1627
Audits.
404.1628
Property.
404.1629
Participation in research and demonstration projects.
404.1630
Coordination with other agencies.
404.1631
Confidentiality of information and records.
404.1632
Other Federal laws and regulations.
404.1633
Policies and operating instructions.

# Performance Standards
404.1640
General.
404.1641
Standards of performance.
404.1642
Processing time standards.
404.1643
Performance accuracy standard.
404.1644
How and when we determine whether the processing time standards are met.
404.1645
How and when we determine whether the performance accuracy standard is met.
404.1650
Action we will take if a State agency does not meet the standards.

# Performance Monitoring and Support
404.1660
How we will monitor.
404.1661
When we will provide performance support.
404.1662
What support we will provide.

# Substantial Failure
404.1670
General.
404.1671
Good cause for not following the Act, our regulations, or other written guidelines.
404.1675
Finding of substantial failure.

# Hearings and Appeals
404.1680
Notice of right to hearing on proposed finding of substantial failure.
404.1681
Disputes on matters other than substantial failure.
404.1682
Who conducts the hearings.
404.1683
Hearings and appeals process.

# Assumption of Disability Determination Function
404.1690
Assumption when we make a finding of substantial failure.
404.1691
Assumption when State no longer wishes to perform the disability determination function.
404.1692
Protection of State employees.
404.1693
Limitation on State expenditures after notice.
404.1694
Final accounting by the State.

# Subpart R—Representation of Parties
404.1700
Introduction.
404.1703
Definitions.
404.1705
Who may be your representative.
404.1706
Notification of options for obtaining attorney representation.
404.1707
Appointing a representative.
404.1710
Authority of a representative.
404.1713
Mandatory use of electronic services.
404.1715
Notice or request to a representative.
404.1717
Direct payment of fees to eligible non-attorney representatives.
404.1720
Fee for a representative's services.
404.1725
Request for approval of a fee.
404.1728
Proceedings before a State or Federal court.
404.1730
Payment of fees.
404.1735
Entity eligible for direct payment of fees.
404.1740
Rules of conduct and standards of responsibility for representatives.
404.1745
Violations of our requirements, rules, or standards.
404.1750
Notice of charges against a representative.
404.1755
Withdrawing charges against a representative.
404.1765
Hearing on charges.
404.1770
Decision by hearing officer.
404.1775
Requesting review of the hearing officer's decision.
404.1776
Assignment of request for review of the hearing officer's decision.
404.1780
Appeals Council's review of hearing officer's decision.
404.1785
Evidence permitted on review.
404.1790
Appeals Council's decision.
404.1795
When the Appeals Council will dismiss a request for review.
404.1797
Reinstatement after suspension—period of suspension expired.
404.1799
Reinstatement after suspension or disqualification—period of suspension not expired.

# Subpart S—Payment Procedures
404.1800
Introduction.
404.1805
Paying benefits.
404.1807
Monthly payment day.
404.1810
Expediting benefit payments.
404.1815
Withholding certification or payments.
404.1820
Transfer or assignment of payments.
404.1821
Garnishment of payments after disbursement.
404.1825
Joint payments to a family.

# Subpart T—Totalization Agreements

# General Provisions
404.1901
Introduction.
404.1902
Definitions.
404.1903
Negotiating totalization agreements.
404.1904
Effective date of a totalization agreement.
404.1905
Termination of agreements.

# Benefit Provisions
404.1908
Crediting foreign periods of coverage.
404.1910
Person qualifies under more than one totalization agreement.
404.1911
Effects of a totalization agreement on entitlement to hospital insurance benefits.

# Coverage Provisions
404.1913
Precluding dual coverage.
404.1914
Certificate of coverage.
404.1915
Payment of contributions.

# Computation Provisions
404.1918
How benefits are computed.
404.1919
How benefits are recomputed.
404.1920
Supplementing the U.S. benefit if the total amount of the combined benefits is less than the U.S. minimum benefit.
404.1921
Benefits of less than $1 due.

# Other Provisions
404.1925
Applications.
404.1926
Evidence.
404.1927
Appeals.
404.1928
Effect of the alien non-payment provision.
404.1929
Overpayments.
404.1930
Disclosure of information.

# Subpart U—Representative Payment
404.2001
Introduction.
404.2010
When payment will be made to a representative payee.
404.2011
What happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you?
404.2015
Information considered in determining whether to make representative payments.
404.2018
Advance designation of representative payees.
404.2020
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
404.2021
What is our order of preference in selecting a representative payee for you?
404.2022
Who may not serve as a representative payee?
404.2024
How do we investigate a representative payee applicant?
404.2025
What information must a representative payee report to us?
404.2026
How do we investigate an appointed representative payee?
404.2030
How will we notify you when we decide you need a representative payee?
404.2035
What are the responsibilities of your representative payee?
404.2040
Use of benefit payments.
404.2040a
Compensation for qualified organizations serving as representative payees.
404.2041
Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
404.2045
Conservation and investment of benefit payments.
404.2050
When will we select a new representative payee for you?
404.2055
When representative payment will be stopped.
404.2060
Transfer of accumulated benefit payments.
404.2065
How does your representative payee account for the use of benefits?

# Subpart V—Payments for Vocational Rehabilitation Services

# General Provisions
404.2101
General.
404.2102
Purpose and scope.
404.2103
Definitions.
404.2104
Participation by State VR agencies.
404.2106
[Reserved]

# Payment Provisions
404.2108
Requirements for payment.
404.2109
Responsibility for making payment decisions.
404.2110
What we mean by “SGA” and by “a continuous period of 9 months”.
404.2111
Criteria for determining when VR services will be considered to have contributed to a continuous period of 9 months.
404.2112
Payment for VR services in a case where an individual continues to receive disability payments based on participation in an approved VR program.
404.2114
Services for which payment may be made.
404.2115
When services must have been provided.
404.2116
When claims for payment for VR services must be made (filing deadlines).
404.2117
What costs will be paid.

# Administrative Provisions
404.2118
[Reserved]
404.2119
Method of payment.
404.2120
Audits.
404.2121
Validation reviews.
404.2122
Confidentiality of information and records.
404.2123
Other Federal laws and regulations.
404.2127
Resolution of disputes.

# Subpart A—Introduction, General Provisions and Definitions

# Authority:
Secs. 203, 205(a), 216(j), and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 403, 405(a), 416(j), and 902(a)(5)) and 48 U.S.C. 1801.
§ 404.1
Introduction.
The regulations in this part 404 (Regulations No. 4 of the Social Security Administration) relate to the provisions of title II of the Social Security Act as amended on August 28, 1950, and as further amended thereafter. The regulations in this part are divided into 22 subparts:
(a) Subpart A contains provisions relating to general definitions and use of terms.
(b) Subpart B relates to quarters of coverage and insured status requirements.
(c) Subpart C relates to the computation and recomputation of the primary insurance amount.
(d) Subpart D relates to the requirements for entitlement to monthly benefits and to the lump-sum death payment duration of entitlement and benefit rates.
(e) Subpart E contains provisions relating to the reduction and increase of insurance benefits and to deductions from benefits and lump-sum death payments.
(f) Subpart F relates to overpayments, underpayments, waiver of adjustment or recovery of overpayments and liability of certifying officers.
(g) Subpart G relates to filing of applications and other forms.
(h) Subpart H relates to evidentiary requirements for establishing an initial and continuing right to monthly benefits and for establishing a right to lump-sum death payment. (Evidentiary requirements relating to disability are contained in subpart P.)
(i) Subpart I relates to maintenance and revision of records of wages and self-employment income.
(j) Subpart J relates to initial determinations, the administrative review process, and reopening of determinations and decisions.
(k) Subpart K relates to employment, wages, self-employment and self-employment income.
(l) Subpart L is reserved.
(m) Subpart M relates to coverage of employees of State and local Governments.
(n) Subpart N relates to benefits in cases involving veterans.
(o) Subpart O relates to the interrelationship of the old-age, survivors and disability insurance program with the railroad retirement program.
(p) Subpart P relates to the determination of disability or blindness.
(q) Subpart Q relates to standards, requirements and procedures for States making determinations of disability for the Commissioner. It also sets out the Commissioner's responsibilities in carrying out the disability determination function.
(r) Subpart R relates to the provisions applicable to attorneys and other individuals who represent applicants in connection with claims for benefits.
(s) Subpart S relates to the payment of benefits to individuals who are entitled to benefits.
(t) Subpart T relates to the negotiation and administration of totalization agreements between the United States and foreign countries.
(u) Subpart U relates to the selection of a representative payee to receive benefits on behalf of a beneficiary and to the duties and responsibilities of a representative payee.
(v) Subpart V relates to payments to State vocational rehabilitative agencies for vocational rehabilitation services.
[26 FR 7054, Aug. 5, 1961; 26 FR 7760, Aug. 19, 1961, as amended at 27 FR 4513, May 11, 1962; 28 FR 14492, Dec. 31, 1963; 51 FR 11718, Apr. 7, 1986; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 83 FR 62456, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 404.2
General definitions and use of terms.
(a)
Terms relating to the Act and regulations.
(1)
The Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. Chapter 7).
(2)
Section
means a section of the regulations in part 404 of this chapter unless the context indicates otherwise.
(b)
Commissioner; Appeals Council; Administrative Law Judge; Administrative Appeals Judge defined
—(1)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security.
(2)
Appeals Council
means the Appeals Council of the Office of Analytics, Review, and Oversight in the Social Security Administration or such member or members thereof as may be designated by the Chair of the Appeals Council.
(3)
Administrative Law Judge
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Office of Hearings Operations in the Social Security Administration.
(4)
Administrative Appeals Judge
means an Administrative Appeals Judge serving as a member of the Appeals Council.
(c)
Miscellaneous.
(1)
Certify,
when used in connection with the duty imposed on the Commissioner by section 205(i) of the act, means that action taken by the Administration in the form of a written statement addressed to the Managing Trustee, setting forth the name and address of the person to whom payment of a benefit or lump sum, or any part thereof, is to be made, the amount to be paid, and the time at which payment should be made.
(2)
Benefit
means an old-age insurance benefit, disability insurance benefit, wife's insurance benefit, husband's insurance benefit, child's insurance benefit, widow's insurance benefit, widower's insurance benefit, mother's insurance benefit, father's insurance benefit, or parent's insurance benefit under Title II of the Act. (Lump sums, which are death payments under title II of the Act, are excluded from the term benefit as defined in this part to permit greater clarity in the regulations.)
(3)
Lump sum
means a lump-sum death payment under title II of the act or any person's share of such a payment.
(4)
Attainment of age.
An individual attains a given age on the first moment of the day preceding the anniversary of his birth corresponding to such age.
(5)
State,
unless otherwise indicated, includes:
(i) The District of Columbia,
(ii) The Virgin Islands,
(iii) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico effective January 1, 1951,
(iv) Guam and American Samoa, effective September 13, 1960, generally, and for purposes of sections 210(a) and 211 of the Act effective after 1960 with respect to service performed after 1960, and effective for taxable years beginning after 1960 with respect to crediting net earnings from self-employment and self-employment income,
(v) The Territories of Alaska and Hawaii prior to January 3, 1959, and August 21, 1959, respectively, when those territories acquired statehood, and
(vi) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) effective January 1, 1987; Social Security coverage for affected temporary employees of the government of the CNMI is also effective on January 1, 1987, under section 210(a)(7)(E) of the Social Security Act. In addition, Social Security coverage for affected non-temporary employees of the government of the CNMI is effective on October 1, 2012, under section 210(a)(7)(C) of the Social Security Act.
(6)
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, includes, unless otherwise indicated:
(i) The States,
(ii) The Territories of Alaska and Hawaii prior to January 3, 1959, and August 21, 1959, respectively, when they acquired statehood,
(iii) The District of Columbia,
(iv) The Virgin Islands,
(v) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico effective January 1, 1951, (vi) Guam and American Samoa, effective September 13, 1960, generally, and for purposes of sections 210(a) and 211 of the Act, effective after 1960 with respect to service performed after 1960, and effective for taxable years beginning after 1960 with respect to crediting net earnings from self-employment and self-employment income, and
(vii) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands effective January 1, 1987.
(7) Masculine gender includes the feminine, unless otherwise indicated.
(8) The terms defined in sections 209, 210, and 211 of the act shall have the meanings therein assigned to them.
[26 FR 7055, Aug. 5, 1961; 26 FR 7760, Aug. 19, 1961, as amended at 28 FR 1037, Feb. 2, 1963; 28 FR 14492, Dec. 31, 1963; 29 FR 15509, Nov. 19, 1964; 41 FR 32886, Aug. 6, 1976; 51 FR 11718, Apr. 7, 1986; 61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 69 FR 51555, Aug. 20, 2004; 79 FR 33684, June 12, 2014; 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018; 85 FR 73156, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.3
General provisions.
(a)
Effect of cross references.
The cross references in the regulations in this part 404 to other portions of the regulations, when the word
see
is used, are made only for convenience and shall be given no legal effect.
(b)
Periods of limitation ending on nonwork days.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 216(j) of the act, effective September 13, 1960, where any provision of title II, or any provision of another law of the United States (other than the Internal Revenue Code of 1954) relating to or changing the effect of title II, or any regulation of the Commissioner issued under title II, provides for a period within which an act is required to be done which affects eligibility for or the amount of any benefit or payment under this title or is necessary to establish or protect any rights under this title, and such period ends on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal legal holiday or on any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonwork day for Federal employees by statute or Executive Order, then such act shall be considered as done within such period if it is done on the first day thereafter which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday or any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonwork day for Federal employees either by statute or Executive Order. For purposes of this paragraph, the day on which a period ends shall include the final day of any extended period where such extension is authorized by law or by the Commissioner pursuant to law. Such extension of any period of limitation does not apply to periods during which benefits may be paid for months prior to the month an application for such benefits is filed pursuant to § 404.621, or to periods during which an application for benefits may be accepted as such pursuant to § 404.620.
[26 FR 7055, Aug. 5, 1961, as amended at 29 FR 15509, Nov. 19, 1964; 51 FR 11718, Apr. 7, 1986; 61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997]

# Subpart B—Insured Status and Quarters of Coverage

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), 212, 213, 214, 216, 217, 223, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 412, 413, 414, 416, 417, 423, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
45 FR 25384, Apr. 15, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 404.101
Introduction.
(a)
Insured status.
This subpart explains what we mean when we say that a person has insured status under the social security program. It also describes how a person may become fully insured, currently insured or insured for disability benefits. Your insured status is a basic factor in determining if you are entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits or to a period of disability. It is also a basic factor in determining if dependents' or survivors' insurance benefits or a lump-sum death payment are payable based on your earnings record. If you are neither fully nor currently insured, no benefits are payable based on your earnings. (Subpart D of this part describes these benefits and the kind of insured status required for each.) In §§ 404.110 through 404.120 we tell how we determine if you are fully or currently insured. The rules for determining if you are insured for purposes of establishing a period of disability or becoming entitled to disability insurance benefits are in §§ 404.130 through 404.133. Whether you have the required insured status depends on the number of quarters of coverage (QCs) you have acquired.
(b)
QCs.
This subpart also sets out our rules on crediting you with QCs. QCs are used in determining insured
status. In general, you are credited with QCs based on the wages you are paid and the self-employment income you derive during certain periods. (See subpart K of this part for a definition of
wages
and
self-employment income.
) Our rules on how and when you acquire a QC are contained in §§ 404.140 through 404.146.
§ 404.102
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart—
Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended.
Age
means how many years old you are. You reach a particular age on the day before your birthday. For example, if your sixty-second birthday is on July 1, 1979, you became age 62 on June 30, 1979.
Quarter
or
calendar quarter
means a period of three calendar months ending March 31, June 30, September 30, or December 31 of any year.
We, our,
or
us
means the Social Security Administration.
You
or
your
means the worker whose insured status is being considered.

# Fully Insured Status
§ 404.110
How we determine fully insured status.
(a)
General.
We describe how we determine the number of quarters of coverage (QCs) you need to be fully insured in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The table in § 404.115 may be used to determine the number of QCs you need to be fully insured under paragraph (b) of this section. We consider certain World War II veterans to have died fully insured (see § 404.111). We also consider certain employees of private nonprofit organizations to be fully insured if they meet special requirements (see § 404.112).
(b)
How many QCs you need to be fully insured.
(1) You need at least 6 QCs but not more than 40 QCs to be fully insured. A person who died before 1951 with at least 6 QCs is fully insured.
(2) You are fully insured for old-age insurance benefits if you have one QC (whenever acquired) for each calendar year elapsing after 1950 or, if later, after the year in which you became age 21, and before the year you reach retirement age, that is, before—
(i) The year you become age 62, if you are a woman;
(ii) The year you become age 62, if you are a man who becomes age 62 after 1974;
(iii) The year 1975, if you are a man who became age 62 in 1973 or 1974; or
(iv) The year you became age 65, if you are a man who became age 62 before 1973.
(3) A person who is otherwise eligible for survivor's benefits and who files an application will be entitled to benefits based on your earnings if you die fully insured. You will be fully insured if you had one QC (whenever acquired) for each calendar year elapsing after 1950 or, if later, after the year you became age 21, and before the earlier of the following years:
(i) The year you die; or
(ii) The year you reach retirement age as shown in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
How a period of disability affects the number of QCs you need.
In determining the number of elapsed years under paragraph (b) of this section, we do not count as an elapsed year any year which is wholly or partly in a period of disability we established for you. For example, if we established a period of disability for you from December 5, 1975 through January 31, 1977, the three years, 1975, 1976 and 1977, would not be counted as elapsed years.
(d)
How we credit QCs for fully insured status based on your total wages before 1951
—(1)
General.
For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, we may use the following rules in crediting QCs based on your wages before 1951 instead of the rule in § 404.141(b)(1).
(i) We may consider you to have one QC for each $400 of your total wages before 1951, as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if you have at least 7 elapsed years as determined under paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section; and the number of QCs determined under this paragraph plus the number of QCs credited to you for periods after 1950 make you fully insured.
(ii) If you file an application in June 1992 or later and you are not entitled to a benefit under section 227 of the Act in the month the application is made, we may consider you to have at least one QC before 1951 if you have $400 or more
total wages before 1951, as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, provided that the number of QCs credited to you under this paragraph plus the number of QCs credited to you for periods after 1950 make you fully insured.
(2)
What are total wages before 1951.
For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, your total wages before 1951 include—
(i) Remuneration credited to you before 1951 on the records of the Secretary;
(ii) Wages considered paid to you before 1951 under section 217 of the Act (relating to benefits in case of veterans);
(iii) Compensation under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 before 1951 that can be credited to you under title II of the Social Security Act; and
(iv) Wages considered paid to you before 1951 under section 231 of the Act (relating to benefits in case of certain persons interned in the United States during World War II).
(e)
When your fully insured status begins.
You are fully insured as of the first day of the calendar quarter in which you acquire the last needed QC (see § 404.145).
[45 FR 25384, Apr. 15, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36573, Sept. 9, 1985; 57 FR 23156, June 2, 1992; 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.111
When we consider a person fully insured based on World War II active military or naval service.
We consider that a person, who was not otherwise fully insured, died fully insured if—
(a) The person was in the active military or naval service of the United States during World War II;
(b) The person died within three years after separation from service and before July 27, 1954; and
(c) The conditions in § 404.1350 that permit us to consider the person fully insured are met.
(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to persons filing applications after May 31, 1992, unless a survivor is entitled to benefits under section 202 of the Act based on the primary insurance amount of the fully insured person for the month preceding the month in which the application is made.
[45 FR 25384, Apr. 15, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 23157, June 2, 1992]
§ 404.112
When we consider certain employees of private nonprofit organizations to be fully insured.
If you are age 55 or over on January 1, 1984, and are on that date an employee of an organization described in § 404.1025(a) which does not have in effect a waiver certificate under section 3121(k) of the Code on that date and whose employees are mandatorily covered as a result of section 102 of Pub. L. 98-21, we consider you to be fully insured if you meet the following requirements:
Your age on January 1, 1984 is—
QC's acquired after Dec. 31, 1983
60 or over
6
59 or over but less than age 60
8
58 or over but less than age 59
12
57 or over but less than age 58
16
55 or over but less than age 57
20
[50 FR 36573, Sept. 9, 1985]
§ 404.115
Table for determining the quarters of coverage you need to be fully insured.
(a)
General.
You may use the following table to determine the number of quarters of coverage (QCs) you need to be fully insured under § 404.110. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section tell you how to use this table.
Worker who reaches retirement age as described in § 404.110(b)(2)
Col. I—Date of birth
Col. II
1
Men
Women
Worker who dies before reaching retirement age as described in § 404.110(b)(2)
Col. III
2
—Year of death
Col. IV
3
Col. V
4
—Age in year of death
Jan. 1, 1893 or earlier
6
6
5
1957
6
6
28
Jan. 2, 1893 to Jan. 1, 1894
7
6
1958
7
29
Jan. 2, 1894 to Jan. 1, 1895
8
6
1959
8
30
Jan. 2, 1895 to Jan. 1, 1896
9
6
1960
9
31
Jan. 2, 1896 to Jan. 1, 1897
10
7
1961
10
32
Jan. 2, 1897 to Jan. 1, 1898
11
8
1962
11
33
Jan. 2, 1898 to Jan. 1, 1899
12
9
1963
12
34
Jan. 2, 1899 to Jan. 1, 1900
13
10
1964
13
35
Jan. 2, 1900 to Jan. 1, 1901
14
11
1965
14
36
Jan. 2, 1901 to Jan. 1, 1902
15
12
1966
15
37
Jan. 2, 1902 to Jan. 1, 1903
16
13
1967
16
38
Jan. 2, 1903 to Jan. 1, 1904
17
14
1968
17
39
Jan. 2, 1904 to Jan. 1, 1905
18
15
1969
18
40
Jan. 2, 1905 to Jan. 1, 1906
19
16
1970
19
41
Jan. 2, 1906 to Jan. 1, 1907
20
17
1971
20
42
Jan. 2, 1907 to Jan. 1, 1908
21
18
1972
21
43
Jan. 2, 1908 to Jan. 1, 1909
22
19
1973
22
44
Jan. 2, 1909 to Jan. 1, 1910
23
20
1974
23
45
Jan. 2, 1910 to Jan. 1, 1911
24
21
1975
24
46
Jan. 2, 1911 to Jan. 1, 1912
24
22
1976
25
47
Jan. 2, 1912 to Jan. 1, 1913
24
23
1977
26
48
Jan. 2, 1913 to Jan. 1, 1914
24
24
1978
27
49
Jan. 2, 1914 to Jan. 1, 1915
25
25
1979
28
50
Jan. 2, 1915 to Jan. 1, 1916
26
26
1980
29
51
Jan. 2, 1916 to Jan. 1, 1917
27
27
1981
30
52
Jan. 2, 1917 to Jan. 1, 1918
28
28
1982
31
53
Jan. 2, 1918 to Jan. 1, 1919
29
29
1983
32
54
Jan. 2, 1919 to Jan. 1, 1920
30
30
1984
33
55
Jan. 2, 1920 to Jan. 1, 1921
31
31
1985
34
56
Jan. 2, 1921 to Jan. 1, 1922
32
32
1986
35
57
Jan. 2, 1922 to Jan. 1, 1923
33
33
1987
36
58
Jan. 2, 1923 to Jan. 1, 1924
34
34
1988
37
59
Jan. 2, 1924 to Jan. 1, 1925
35
35
1989
38
60
Jan. 2, 1925 to Jan. 1, 1926
36
36
1990
39
61
Jan. 2, 1926 to Jan. 1, 1927
37
37
7
1991
40
62
Jan. 2, 1927 to Jan. 1, 1928
38
38
Jan. 2, 1928 to Jan. 1, 1929
39
39
Jan. 2, 1929 or later
40
1
Number of QCs required for fully insured status; living worker or worker who dies after reaching retirement age.
2
Worker born before Jan. 2, 1930 who dies before reaching retirement age.
3
Number of QCs required for fully insured status.
4
Worker born Jan. 2, 1930 or later, who dies before reaching retirement age.
5
Or earlier.
6
Or younger.
7
Or later.
(b)
Number of QCs you need.
The QCs you need for fully insured status are in column II opposite your date of birth in column I. If a worker dies before reaching retirement age as described in § 404.110(b)(2), the QCs needed for fully insured status are shown in column IV opposite—
(1) The year of death in column III, if the worker was born before January 2, 1930; or
(2) The age in the year of death in column V, if the worker was born after January 1, 1930.
(c)
How a period of disability affects the number of QCs you need.
If you had a period of disability established for you, it affects the number of QCs you need to be fully insured (see § 404.110(c)). For each year which is wholly or partly in a period of disability, subtract one QC from the number of QCs shown in the appropriate line and column of the table as explained in paragraph (b) of this section.

# Currently Insured Status
§ 404.120
How we determine currently insured status.
(a)
What the period is for determining currently insured status.
You are currently insured if you have at least 6 quarters of coverage (QCs) during the 13-quarter period ending with the quarter in which you—
(1) Die;
(2) Most recently became entitled to disability insurance benefits; or
(3) Became entitled to old-age insurance benefits.
(b)
What quarters are not counted as part of the 13-quarter period.
We do not count as part of the 13-quarter period
any quarter all or part of which is included in a period of disability established for you, except that the first and last quarters of the period of disability may be counted if they are QCs (see § 404.146(d)).

# Disability Insured Status
§ 404.130
How we determine disability insured status.
(a)
General.
We have four different rules for determining if you are insured for purposes of establishing a period of disability or becoming entitled to disability insurance benefits. To have disability insured status, you must meet one of these rules and you must be fully insured (see § 404.132 which tells when the period ends for determining the number of quarters of coverage (QCs) you need to be fully insured).
(b)
Rule I—You must meet the 20/40 requirement.
You are insured in a quarter for purposes of establishing a period of disability or becoming entitled to disability insurance benefits if in that quarter—
(1) You are fully insured; and
(2) You have at least 20 QCs in the 40-quarter period (see paragraph (f) of this section) ending with that quarter.
(c)
Rule II—You become disabled before age 31.
You are insured in a quarter for purposes of establishing a period of disability or becoming entitled to disability insurance benefits if in that quarter—
(1) You have not become (or would not become) age 31;
(2) You are fully insured; and
(3) You have QCs in at least one-half of the quarters during the period ending with that quarter and beginning with the quarter after the quarter you became age 21; however—
(i) If the number of quarters during this period is an odd number, we reduce the number by one; and
(ii) If the period has less than 12 quarters, you must have at least 6 QCs in the 12-quarter period ending with that quarter.
(d)
Rule III—You had a period of disability before age 31.
You are insured in a quarter for purposes of establishing a period of disability or becoming entitled to disability insurance benefits if in that quarter—
(1) You are disabled again at age 31 or later after having had a prior period of disability established which began before age 31 and for which you were only insured under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) You are fully insured and have QCs in at least one-half the calendar quarters in the period beginning with the quarter after the quarter you became age 21 and through the quarter in which the later period of disability begins, up to a maximum of 20 QCs out of 40 calendar quarters; however—
(i) If the number of quarters during this period is an odd number, we reduce the number by one;
(ii) If the period has less than 12 quarters, you must have at least 6 QCs in the 12-quarter period ending with that quarter; and
(iii) No monthly benefits may be paid or increased under Rule III before May 1983.
(e)
Rule IV—You are statutorily blind.
You are insured in a quarter for purposes of establishing a period of disability or becoming entitled to disability insurance benefits if in that quarter—
(1) You are disabled by blindness as defined in § 404.1581; and
(2) You are fully insured.
(f)
How we determine the 40-quarter or other period.
In determining the 40-quarter period or other period in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, we do not count any quarter all or part of which is in a prior period of disability established for you, unless the quarter is the first or last quarter of this period and the quarter is a QC. However, we will count all the quarters in the prior period of disability established for you if by doing so you would be entitled to benefits or the amount of the benefit would be larger.
[49 FR 28547, July 13, 1984, as amended at 55 FR 7313, Mar. 1, 1990]
§ 404.131
When you must have disability insured status.
(a)
For a period of disability.
To establish a period of disability, you must have disability insured status in the quarter in which you become disabled or in a later quarter in which you are disabled.
(b)
For disability insurance benefits.
(1) To become entitled to disability insurance benefits, you must have disability insured status in the first full month that you are disabled as described in § 404.1501(a), or if later—
(i) The 17th month (if you have to serve a waiting period described in § 404.315(d)) before the month in which you file an application for disability insurance benefits; or
(ii) The 12th month (if you do not have to serve a waiting period) before the month in which you file an application for disability insurance benefits.
(2) If you do not have disability insured status in a month specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you will be insured for disability insurance benefits beginning with the first month after that month in which you do meet the insured status requirement and you also meet all other requirements for disability insurance benefits described in § 404.315.
§ 404.132
How we determine fully insured status for a period of disability or disability insurance benefits.
In determining if you are fully insured for purposes of paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of § 404.130 on disability insured status, we use the fully insured status requirements in § 404.110, but apply the following rules in determining when the period of elapsed years ends:
(a) If you are a woman, or a man born after January 1, 1913, the period of elapsed years in § 404.110(b) used in determining the number of quarters of coverage (QCs) you need to be fully insured ends as of the earlier of—
(1) The year you become age 62; or
(2) The year in which—
(i) Your period of disability begins;
(ii) Your waiting period begins (see § 404.315(d)); or
(iii) You become entitled to disability insurance benefits (if you do not have to serve a waiting period).
(b) If you are a man born before January 2, 1913, the period of elapsed years in § 404.110(b) used in determining the number of QCs you need to be fully insured ends as of the earlier of—
(1) The year 1975; or
(2) The year specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
[45 FR 25384, Apr. 15, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 28547, July 13, 1984]
§ 404.133
When we give you quarters of coverage based on military service to establish a period of disability.
For purposes of establishing a period of disability only, we give you quarters of coverage (QCs) for your military service before 1957 (see subpart N of this part). We do this even though we may not use that military service for other purposes of title II of the Act because a periodic benefit is payable from another Federal agency based in whole or in part on the same period of military service.

# Quarters of Coverage
§ 404.140
What is a quarter of coverage.
(a)
General.
A quarter of coverage (QC) is the basic unit of social security coverage used in determining a worker's insured status. We credit you with QCs based on your earnings covered under social security.
(b)
How we credit QCs based on earnings before 1978 (General).
Before 1978, wages were generally reported on a quarterly basis and self-employment income was reported on an annual basis. For the most part, we credit QCs for calendar years before 1978 based on your quarterly earnings. For these years, as explained in § 404.141, we generally credit you with a QC for each calendar quarter in which you were paid at least $50 in wages or were credited with at least $100 of self-employment income. Section 404.142 tells how self-employment income derived in a taxable year beginning before 1978 is credited to specific calendar quarters for purposes of § 404.141.
(c)
How we credit QCs based on earnings after 1977 (General).
After 1977, both wages and self-employment income are generally reported on an annual basis. For calendar years after 1977, as explained in § 404.143, we generally credit you with a QC for each part of your total covered earnings in a calendar year that equals the amount required for a QC in that year. Section 404.143 also tells how the amount required for
a QC will be increased in the future as average wages increase. Section 404.144 tells how self-employment income derived in a taxable year beginning after 1977 is credited to specific calendar years for purposes of § 404.143.
(d)
When a QC is acquired and when a calendar quarter is not a QC (general).
Section 404.145 tells when a QC is acquired and § 404.146 tells when a calendar quarter cannot be a QC. These rules apply when we credit QCs under § 404.141 or § 404.143.
§ 404.141
How we credit quarters of coverage for calendar years before 1978.
(a)
General.
The rules in this section tell how we credit calendar quarters as quarters of coverage (QCs) for calendar years before 1978. We credit you with a QC for a calendar quarter based on the amount of wages you were paid and self-employment income you derived during certain periods. The rules in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section are subject to the limitations in § 404.146, which tells when a calendar quarter cannot be a QC.
(b)
How we credit QCs based on wages paid in, or self-employment income credited to, a calendar quarter.
We credit you with a QC for a calendar quarter in which—
(1) You were paid wages of $50 or more (see paragraph (c) of this section for an exception relating to wages paid for agricultural labor); or
(2) You were credited (under § 404.142) with self-employment income of $100 or more.
(c)
How we credit QCs based on wages paid for agricultural labor in a calendar year after 1954.
(1) We credit QCs based on wages for agricultural labor depending on the amount of wages paid during a calendar year for that work. If you were paid wages for agricultural labor in a calendar year after 1954 and before 1978, we credit you with QCs for calendar quarters in that year which are not otherwise QCs according to the following table.
If the wages paid to you in a calendar year for agricultural labor were
We credit you with
And assign:
1
$400 or more
4 QCs
All.
At least $300 but less than $400
3 QCs
Last 3.
At least $200 but less than $300
2 QCs
Last 2.
At least $100 but less than $200
1 QC
Last.
Less than $100
No QCs
1
One QC to each of the following calendar quarters in that year.
(2) When we assign QCs to calendar quarters in a year as shown in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, you might not meet (or might not meet as early in the year as otherwise possible) the requirements to be fully or currently insured, to be entitled to a computation or recomputation of your primary insurance amount, or to establish a period of disability. If this happens, we assign the QCs to different quarters in that year than those shown in the table if this assignment permits you to meet these requirements (or meet them earlier in the year). We can only reassign QCs for purposes of meeting these requirements.
(d)
How we credit QCs based on wages paid or self-employment income derived in a year.
(1) If you were paid wages in a calendar year after 1950 and before 1978 at least equal to the annual wage limitation in effect for that year as described in §§ 404.1047 and 404.1096, we credit you with a QC for each quarter in that calendar year. If you were paid at least $3,000 wages in a calendar year before 1951, we credit you with a QC for each quarter in that calendar year.
(2) If you derived self-employment income (or derived self-employment income and also were paid wages) during a taxable year beginning after 1950 and before 1978 at least equal to the self-employment income and wage limitation in effect for that year as described in § 404.1068(b), we credit you with a QC for each calendar quarter wholly or partly in that taxable year.
[45 FR 25384, Apr. 15, 1980; 45 FR 41931, June 23, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 14977, Mar. 24, 2005]
§ 404.142
How we credit self-employment income to calendar quarters for taxable years beginning before 1978.
In crediting quarters of coverage under § 404.141(b)(2), we credit any self-
employment income you derived during a taxable year that began before 1978 to calendar quarters as follows:
(a) If your taxable year was a calendar year, we credit your self-employment income equally to each quarter of that calendar year.
(b) If your taxable year was not a calendar year (that is, it began on a date other than January 1, or was less than a calendar year), we credit your self-employment income equally—
(1) To the calendar quarter in which your taxable year ended; and
(2) To each of the next three or fewer preceding quarters that were wholly or partly in your taxable year.
§ 404.143
How we credit quarters of coverage for calendar years after 1977.
(a)
Crediting quarters of coverage (QCs).
For calendar years after 1977, we credit you with a QC for each part of the total wages paid and self-employment income credited (under § 404.144) to you in a calendar year that equals the amount required for a QC in that year. For example, if the total of your wages and self-employment income for a calendar year is more than twice, but less than 3 times, the amount required for a QC in that year, we credit you with only 2 QCs for the year. The rules for crediting QCs in this section are subject to the limitations in § 404.146, which tells when a calendar quarter cannot be a QC. In addition, we cannot credit you with more than four QCs for any calendar year. The amount of wages and self-employment income that you must have for each QC is—
(1) $250 for calendar year 1978; and
(2) For each calendar year after 1978, an amount determined by the Commissioner for that year (on the basis of a formula in section 213(d)(2) of the Act which reflects national increases in average wages). The amount determined by the Commissioner is published in the
Federal Register
on or before November 1 of the preceding year and included in the appendix to this subpart.
(b)
Assigning QCs.
We assign a QC credited under paragraph (a) of this section to a specific calendar quarter in the calendar year only if the assignment is necessary to—
(1) Give you fully or currently insured status;
(2) Entitle you to a computation or recomputation of your primary insurance amount; or
(3) Permit you to establish a period of disability.
[45 FR 25834, Apr. 15, 1980, as amended at 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.144
How we credit self-employment income to calendar years for taxable years beginning after 1977.
In crediting quarters of coverage under § 404.143(a), we credit self-employment income you derived during a taxable year that begins after 1977 to calendar years as follows:
(a) If your taxable year is a calendar year or begins and ends within the same calendar year, we credit your self-employment income to that calendar year.
(b) If your taxable year begins in one calendar year and ends in the following calendar year, we allocate proportionately your self-employment income to the two calendar years on the basis of the number of months in each calendar year which are included completely within your taxable year. We consider the calendar month in which your taxable year ends as included completely within your taxable year.

# Example:
For the taxable year beginning May 15, 1978, and ending May 14, 1979, your self-employment income is $1200. We credit
7/12
($700) of your self-employment income to calendar year 1978 and
5/12
($500) of your self-employment income to calendar year 1979.
§ 404.145
When you acquire a quarter of coverage.
If we credit you with a quarter of coverage (QC) for a calendar quarter under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of § 404.141 for calendar years before 1978 or assign it to a specific calendar quarter under paragraph (b) of § 404.143 for calendar years after 1977, you acquire the QC as of the first day of the calendar quarter.
§ 404.146
When a calendar quarter cannot be a quarter of coverage.
This section applies when we credit you with quarters of coverage (QCs) under § 404.141 for calendar years before 1978 and under § 404.143 for calendar
years after 1977. We cannot credit you with a QC for—
(a) A calendar quarter that has not begun;
(b) A calendar quarter that begins after the quarter of your death;
(c) A calendar quarter that has already been counted as a QC; or
(d) A calendar quarter that is included in a period of disability established for you, unless—
(1) The quarter is the first or the last quarter of this period; or
(2) The period of disability is not taken into consideration (see § 404.320(a)).
Pt. 404, Subpt. B, App.

# Appendix to Subpart B of Part 404—Quarter of Coverage Amounts for Calendar Years After 1978
This appendix shows the amount determined by the Commissioner that is needed for a quarter of coverage for each year after 1978 as explained in § 404.143. We publish the amount as a Notice in the
Federal Register
on or before November 1 of the preceding year. The amounts determined by the Commissioner are as follows:
Calendar year
Amount needed
1979
$260
1980
290
1981
310
1982
340
1983
370
1984
390
1985
410
1986
440
1987
460
1988
470
1989
500
1990
520
1991
540
1992
570
[45 FR 25384, Apr. 15, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 8247, Mar. 17, 1987; 57 FR 44096, Sept. 24, 1992; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997]

# Subpart C—Computing Primary Insurance Amounts

# Authority:
Secs. 202(a), 205(a), 215, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402(a), 405(a), 415, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 404.201
What is included in this subpart?
In this subpart we describe how we compute your primary insurance amount (PIA), how and when we will recalculate or recompute your PIA to include credit for additional earnings, and how we automatically adjust your PIA to reflect changes in the cost of living.
(a)
What is my primary insurance amount?
Your primary insurance amount (PIA) is the basic figure we use to determine the monthly benefit amount payable to you and your family. For example, if you retire in the month you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) or if you become disabled, you will be entitled to a monthly benefit equal to your PIA. If you retire prior to full retirement age your monthly benefit will be reduced as explained in §§ 404.410-404.413. Benefits to other members of your family are a specified percentage of your PIA as explained in subpart D. Total benefits to your family are subject to a maximum as explained in § 404.403.
(b)
How is this subpart organized?
(1) In §§ 404.201 through 404.204, we explain some introductory matters.
(2) In §§ 404.210 through 404.213, we describe the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method we use to compute the primary insurance amount (PIA) for workers who attain age 62 (or become disabled or die before age 62) after 1978.
(3) In §§ 404.220 through 404.222, we describe the average-monthly-wage method we use to compute the PIA for workers who attain age 62 (or become disabled or die before age 62) before 1979.
(4) In §§ 404.230 through 404.233, we describe the guaranteed alternative method we use to compute the PIA for people who attain age 62 after 1978 but before 1984.
(5) In §§ 404.240 through 404.243, we describe the old-start method we use to compute the PIA for those who had all or substantially all of their social security covered earnings before 1951.
(6) In §§ 404.250 through 404.252, we describe special rules we use to compute the PIA for a worker who previously had a period of disability.
(7) In §§ 404.260 through 404.261, we describe how we compute the special minimum PIA for long-term, low-paid workers.
(8) In §§ 404.270 through 404.278, we describe how we automatically increase your PIA because of increases in the cost of living.
(9) In §§ 404.280 through 404.288, we describe how and when we will recompute your PIA to include additional earnings which were not used in the original computation.
(10) In § 404.290 we describe how and when we will recalculate your PIA.
(11) Appendices I-VII contain material such as figures and formulas that we use to compute PIAs.
[68 FR 4701, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.202
Other regulations related to this subpart.
This subpart is related to several others. In subpart B of this part, we describe how you become insured for social security benefits as a result of your work in covered employment. In subpart D, we discuss the different kinds of social security benefits available—old-age and disability benefits for you and benefits for your dependents and survivors—the amount of the benefits, and the requirements you and your family must meet to qualify for them; your work status, your age, the size of your family, and other factors may affect the amount of the benefits for you and your family. Rules relating to deductions, reductions, and nonpayment of benefits we describe in subpart E. In subpart F of this part, we describe what we do when a recalculation or recomputation of your primary insurance amount (as described in this subpart) results in our finding that you and your family have been overpaid or underpaid. In subparts G and H of this part, we tell how to apply for benefits and what evidence is needed to establish entitlement to them. In subpart J of this part, we describe how benefits are paid. Then in subparts I, K, N, and O of this part, we discuss your earnings that are taxable and creditable for social security purposes (and how we keep records of them), and deemed military wage credits which may be used in finding your primary insurance amount.
§ 404.203
Definitions.
(a)
General definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Ad hoc increase in primary insurance amounts
means an increase in primary insurance amounts enacted by the Congress and signed into law by the President.
Entitled
means that a person has applied for benefits and has proven his or her right to them for a given period of time.
We, us,
or
our
means the Social Security Administration.
You
or
your
means the insured worker who has applied for benefits or a deceased insured worker on whose social security earnings record someone else has applied.
(b)
Other definitions.
To make it easier to find them, we have placed other definitions in the sections of this subpart in which they are used.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.204
Methods of computing primary insurance amounts—general.
(a)
General.
We compute most workers' primary insurance amounts under one of two major methods. There are, in addition, several special methods of computing primary insurance amounts which we apply to some workers. Your primary insurance amount is the highest of all those computed under the methods for which you are eligible.
(b)
Major methods.
(1) If after 1978 you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62, we compute your primary insurance amount under what we call the
average-indexed-monthly-earnings
method, which is described in §§ 404.210 through 404.212. The earliest of the three dates determines the computation method we use.
(2) If before 1979 you reached age 62, became disabled, or died, we compute your primary insurance amount under what we call the
average-monthly-wage
method, described in §§ 404.220 through 404.222.
(c)
Special methods.
(1) Your primary insurance amount, computed under any of the special methods for which you are eligible as described in this paragraph, may be substituted for your primary insurance amount computed
under either major method described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If you reach age 62 during the period 1979-1983, your primary insurance amount is guaranteed to be the highest of—
(i) The primary insurance amount we compute for you under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method;
(ii) The primary insurance amount we compute for you under the average-monthly-wage method, as modified by the rules described in §§ 404.230 through 404.233; or
(iii) The primary insurance amount computed under what we call the
old-start
method; as described in §§ 404.240 through 404.242.
(3) If you had all or substantially all of your social security earnings before 1951, we will also compute your primary insurance amount under what we call the
old-start
method.
(4) We compute your primary insurance amount under the rules in §§ 404.250 through 404.252, if—
(i) You were disabled and received social security disability insurance benefits sometime in your life;
(ii) Your disability insurance benefits were terminated because of your recovery or because you engaged in substantial gainful activity; and
(iii) You are, after 1978, re-entitled to disability insurance benefits, or entitled to old-age insurance benefits, or have died.
(5) In some situations, we use what we call a
special minimum
computation, described in §§ 404.260 through 404.261, to find your primary insurance amount. Computations under this method reflect long-term, low-wage attachment to covered work.

# Average-Indexed-Monthly-Earnings Method of Computing Primary Insurance Amounts
§ 404.210
Average-indexed-monthly-earnings method.
(a)
Who is eligible for this method.
If after 1978, you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62, we will compute your primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method.
(b)
Steps in computing your primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method.
We follow these three major steps in computing your primary insurance amount:
(1) First, we find your
average indexed monthly earnings,
as described in § 404.211;
(2) Second, we find the
benefit formula
in effect for the year you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62, as described in § 404.212; and
(3) Then, we apply that benefit formula to your average indexed monthly earnings to find your primary insurance amount, as described in § 404.212.
(4) Next, we apply any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts that became effective in or after the year you reached age 62, unless you are receiving benefits based on the minimum primary insurance amount, in which case not all the increases may be applied, as described in § 404.277.
§ 404.211
Computing your average indexed monthly earnings.
(a)
General.
In this method, your social security earnings after 1950 are
indexed,
as described in paragraph (d) of this section, then averaged over the period of time you can reasonably have been expected to have worked in employment or self-employment covered by social security. (Your earnings before 1951 are not used in finding your average indexed monthly earnings.)
(b)
Which earnings may be used in computing your average indexed monthly earnings
—(1)
Earnings.
In computing your average indexed monthly earnings, we use wages, compensation, self-employment income, and deemed military wage credits (see §§ 404.1340 through 404.1343) that are creditable to you for social security purposes for years after 1950.
(2)
Computation base years.
We use your earnings in your
computation base years
in finding your average indexed monthly earnings. All years after 1950 up to (but not including) the year you become entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits, and through the year you die if you had not been entitled to old-age or disability benefits, are computation base years for you. The year you become entitled to benefits and following years may be used as
computation base years in a recomputation if their use would result in a higher primary insurance amount. (See §§ 404.280 through 404.287.) However, years after the year you die may not be used as computation base years even if you have earnings credited to you in those years. Computation base years do not include years wholly within a period of disability unless your primary insurance amount would be higher by using the disability years. In such situations, we count all the years during the period of disability, even if you had no earnings in some of them.
(c)
Average of the total wages.
Before we compute your average indexed monthly earnings, we must first know the “average of the total wages” of all workers for each year from 1951 until the second year before you become eligible. The average of the total wages for years after 1950 are shown in appendix I. Corresponding figures for more recent years which have not yet been incorporated into this appendix are published in the
Federal Register
on or before November 1 of the succeeding year. “Average of the total wages” (or “average wage”) means:
(1) For the years 1951 through 1977, four times the amount of average taxable wages that were reported to the Social Security Administration for the first calendar quarter of each year for social security tax purposes. For years prior to 1973, these average wages were determined from a sampling of these reports.
(2) For the years 1978 through 1990, all remuneration reported as wages on Form W-2 to the Internal Revenue Service for all employees for income tax purposes, divided by the number of wage earners. We adjusted those averages to make them comparable to the averages for 1951-1977. For years after 1977, the term includes remuneration for services not covered by social security and remuneration for covered employment in excess of that which is subject to FICA contributions.
(3) For years after 1990, all remuneration reported as wages on Form W-2 to the Internal Revenue Service for all employees for income tax purposes, including remuneration described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, plus contributions to certain deferred compensation plans described in section 209(k) of the Social Security Act (also reported on Form W-2), divided by the number of wage earners. If both distributions from and contributions to any such deferred compensation plan are reported on Form W-2, we will include only the contributions in the calculation of the average of the total wages. We will adjust those averages to make them comparable to the averages for 1951-1990.
(d)
Indexing your earnings.
(1) The first step in indexing your social security earnings is to find the relationship (under paragraph (d)(2) of this section) between—
(i) The average wage of all workers in your computation base years; and
(ii) The average wage of all workers in your
indexing year.
As a general rule, your indexing year is the second year before the earliest of the year you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62. However, your indexing year is determined under paragraph (d)(4) of this section if you die before age 62, your surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse is first eligible for benefits after 1984, and the indexing year explained in paragraph (d)(4) results in a higher widow(er)'s benefit than results from determining the indexing year under the general rule.
(2) To find the relationship, we divide the average wages for your indexing year, in turn, by the average wages for each year beginning with 1951 and ending with your indexing year. We use the quotients found in these divisions to index your earnings as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(3) The second step in indexing your social security earnings is to multiply the actual year-by-year dollar amounts of your earnings (up to the maximum amounts creditable, as explained in §§ 404.1047 and 404.1096 of this part) by the quotients found in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for each of those years. We round the results to the nearer penny. (The quotient for your indexing year is 1.0; this means that your earnings in that year are used in their actual dollar amount; any earnings after your indexing year that may be used in computing your average indexed monthly earnings are also used in their actual dollar amount.)

# Example:
Ms. A reaches age 62 in July 1979. Her year-by-year social security earnings since 1950 are as follows:
Year
Earnings
1951
$3,200
1952
3,400
1953
3,300
1954
3,600
1955
3,700
1956
3,700
1957
4,000
1958
4,200
1959
4,400
1960
4,500
1961
2,800
1962
2,200
1963
0
1964
0
1965
3,700
1966
4,500
1967
5,400
1968
6,200
1969
6,900
1970
7,300
1971
7,500
1972
7,800
1973
8,200
1974
9,000
1975
9,900
1976
11,100
1977
9,900
1978
11,000
Step 1.
The first step in indexing Ms. A's earnings is to find the relationship between the general wage level in Ms. A's indexing year (1977) and the general wage level in each of the years 1951-1976. We refer to appendix I for average wage figures, and perform the following computations:
Year
I. 1977 general wage level
II. Nationwide average of the total wages
III. Column I divided by column II equals relationship
1951
$9,779.44
$2,799.16
3.4937053
1952
9,779.44
2,973.32
3.2890641
1953
9,779.44
3,139.44
3.1150269
1954
9,779.44
3,155.64
3.0990354
1955
9,779.44
3,301.44
2.9621741
1956
9,779.44
3,532.36
2.7685287
1957
9,779.44
3,641.72
2.6853904
1958
9,779.44
3,673.80
2.6619413
1959
9,779.44
3,855.80
2.5362934
1960
9,779.44
4,007.12
2.4405159
1961
9,779.44
4,086.76
2.3929568
1962
9,779.44
4,291.40
2.2788461
1963
9,779.44
4,396.64
2.2242986
1964
9,779.44
4,576.32
2.1369659
1965
9,779.44
4,658.72
2.0991689
1966
9,779.44
4,938.36
1.9803012
1967
9,779.44
5,213.44
1.8758133
1968
9,779.44
5,571.76
1.7551797
1969
9,779.44
5,893.76
1.6592871
1970
9,779.44
6,186.24
1.5808375
1971
9,779.44
6,497.08
1.5052054
1972
9,779.44
7,133.80
1.3708599
1973
9,779.44
7,580.16
1.2901364
1974
9,779.44
8,030.76
1.2177478
1975
9,779.44
8,630.92
1.1330704
1976
9,779.44
9,226.48
1.0599318
1977
9,779.44
9,779.44
1.0000000
Step 2.
After we have found these indexing quotients, we multiply Ms. A's actual year-by-year earnings by them to find her indexed earnings, as shown below:
Year
I. Actual earnings
II. Indexing quotient
III. Column I multiplied by column II equals indexed earnings
1951
$3,200
3.4937053
$11,179.86
1952
3,400
3.2890641
11,182.82
1953
3,300
3.1150269
10,279.59
1954
3,600
3.0990354
11,156.53
1955
3,700
2.9621741
10,960.04
1956
3,700
2.7685287
10,243.56
1957
4,000
2.6853904
10,741.56
1958
4,200
2.6619413
11,180.15
1959
4,400
2.5362934
11,159.69
1960
4,500
2.4405159
10,982.32
1961
2,800
2.3929568
6,700.28
1962
2,200
2.2788461
5,013.46
1963
0
2.2242986
0
1964
0
2.1369659
0
1965
3,700
2.0991689
7,766.92
1966
4,500
1.9803012
8,911.36
1967
5,400
1.8758133
10,129.39
1968
6,200
1.7551797
10,882.11
1969
6,900
1.6592871
11,449.08
1970
7,300
1.5808375
11,540.11
1971
7,500
1.5052054
11,289.04
1972
7,800
1.3708599
10,692.71
1973
8,200
1.2901364
10,579.12
1974
9,000
1.2177478
10,959.73
1975
9,900
1.1330704
11,217.40
1976
11,100
1.0599318
11,765.24
1977
9,900
1.0000000
9,900.00
1978
11,000
0
11,000.00
(4) We calculate your indexing year under this paragraph if you, the insured worker, die before reaching age 62, your surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse is first eligible after 1984, and the indexing year calculated under this paragraph results in a higher widow(er)'s benefit than results from the indexing year calculated under the general rule explained in paragraph (d)(1)(ii). For purposes of this paragraph, the indexing year is never earlier than the second year before the year of your death. Except for this limitation, the indexing year is the earlier of—
(i) The year in which you, the insured worker, attained age 60, or would have attained age 60 if you had lived, and
(ii) The second year before the year in which the surviving spouse or the
surviving divorced spouse becomes eligible for widow(er)'s benefits,
i.e.
, has attained age 60, or is age 50-59 and disabled.
(e)
Number of years to be considered in finding your average indexed monthly earnings.
To find the number of years to be used in computing your average indexed monthly earnings—
(1) We count the years beginning with 1951, or (if later) the year you reach age 22, and ending with the earliest of the year before you reach age 62, become disabled, or die. Years wholly or partially within a period of disability (as defined in § 404.1501(b) of subpart P of this part) are not counted unless your primary insurance amount would be higher. In that case, we count all the years during the period of disability, even though you had no earnings in some of those years. These are your
elapsed years.
From your elapsed years, we then subtract up to 5 years, the exact number depending on the kind of benefits to which you are entitled. You cannot, under this procedure, have fewer than 2 benefit computation years.
(2) For computing old-age insurance benefits and survivors insurance benefits, we subtract 5 from the number of your elapsed years. See paragraphs (e) (3) and (4) of this section for the dropout as applied to disability benefits. This is the number of your
benefit computation years;
we use the same number of your computation base years (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section) in computing your average indexed monthly earnings. For benefit computation years, we use the years with the highest amounts of earnings after indexing. They may include earnings from years that were not indexed, and must include years of no earnings if you do not have sufficient years with earnings. You cannot have fewer than 2 benefit computation years.
(3) Where the worker is first entitled to disability insurance benefits (DIB) after June 1980, there is an exception to the usual 5 year dropout provision explained in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (For entitlement before July 1980, we use the usual dropout.) We call this exception the
disability dropout.
We divide the elapsed years by 5 and disregard any fraction. The result, which may not exceed 5, is the number of dropout years. We subtract that number from the number of elapsed years to get the number of benefit computation years, which may not be fewer than 2. After the worker dies, the disability dropout no longer applies and we use the basic 5 dropout years to compute benefits for survivors. We continue to apply the disability dropout when a person becomes entitled to old-age insurance benefits (OAIB), unless his or her entitlement to DIB ended at least 12 months before he or she became eligible for OAIB. For first DIB entitlement before July 1980, we use the rule in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4) For benefits payable after June 1981, the disability dropout might be increased by the
child care dropout.
If the number of disability dropout years is fewer than 3, we will drop out a benefit computation year for each benefit computation year that the worker meets the child care requirement and had no earnings, until the total of all dropout years is 3. The child care requirement for any year is that the worker must have been living with his or her child (or his or her spouse's child) substantially throughout any part of any calendar year that the child was alive and under age 3. In actual practice, no more than 2 child care years may be dropped, because of the combined effect of the number of elapsed years, 1-for-5 dropout years (if any), and the computation years required for the computation.

# Example:
Ms. M., born August 4, 1953, became entitled to disability insurance benefits (DIB) beginning in July 1980 based on a disability which began January 15, 1980. In computing the DIB, we determined that the elapsed years are 1975 through 1979, the number of dropout years is 1 (5 elapsed years divided by 5), and the number of computation years is 4. Since Ms. M. had no earnings in 1975 and 1976, we drop out 1975 and use her earnings for the years 1977 through 1979.
Ms. M. lived with her child, who was born in 1972, in all months of 1973 and 1974 and did not have any earnings in those years. We, therefore, recompute Ms. M.'s DIB beginning with July 1981 to give her the advantage of the child care dropout. To do this, we reduce the 4 computation years by 1 child care year to get 3 computation years. Because the child care dropout cannot be applied to computation years in which the worker had
earnings, we can drop only one of Ms. M.'s computation years,
i.e.
, 1976, in addition to the year 1975 which we dropped in the initial computation.
(i)
Living with
means that you and the child ordinarily live in the same home and you exercise, or have the right to exercise, parental control. See § 404.366(c) for a further explanation.
(ii)
Substantially throughout any part of any calendar year
means that any period you were not living with the child during a calendar year did not exceed 3 months. If the child was either born or attained age 3 during the calendar year, the period of absence in the year cannot have exceeded the smaller period of 3 months, or one-half the time after the child's birth or before the child attained age 3.
(iii)
Earnings
means wages for services rendered and net earnings from self-employment minus any net loss for a taxable year. See § 404.429 for a further explanation.
(f)
Your average indexed monthly earnings.
After we have indexed your earnings and found your benefit computation years, we compute your average indexed monthly earnings by—
(1) Totalling your indexed earnings in your benefit computation years;
(2) Dividing the total by the number of months in your benefit computation years; and
(3) Rounding the quotient to the next lower whole dollar. if not already a multiple of $1.

# Example:
From the example in paragraph (d) of this section, we see that Ms. A reaches age 62 in 1979. Her elapsed years are 1951-1978 (28 years). We subtract 5 from her 28 elapsed years to find that we must use 23 benefit computation years. This means that we will use her 23 highest computation base years to find her average indexed monthly earnings. We exclude the 5 years 1961-1965 and total her indexed earnings for the remaining years,
i.e.
, the benefit computation years (including her unindexed earnings in 1977 and 1978) and get $249,381.41. We then divide that amount by the 276 months in her 23 benefit computation years and find her average indexed monthly earnings to be $903.56, which is rounded down to $903.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982; 47 FR 35479, Aug. 13, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 11695, Mar. 21, 1983; 51 FR 4482, Feb. 5, 1986; 57 FR 1381, Jan. 14, 1992]
§ 404.212
Computing your primary insurance amount from your average indexed monthly earnings.
(a)
General.
We compute your primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method by applying a
benefit formula
to your average indexed monthly earnings.
(b)
Benefit formula.
(1) We use the applicable benefit formula in appendix II for the year you reach age 62, become disabled, or die whichever occurs first. If you die before age 62, and your surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse is first eligible after 1984, we may compute the primary insurance amount, for the purpose of paying benefits to your widow(er), as if you had not died but reached age 62 in the second year after the indexing year that we computed under the provisions of § 404.211(d)(4). We will not use this primary insurance amount for computing benefit amounts for your other survivors or for computing the maximum family benefits payable on your earnings record. Further, we will only use this primary insurance amount if it results in a higher widow(er)'s benefit than would result if we did not use this special computation.
(2) The dollar amounts in the benefit formula are automatically increased each year for persons who attain age 62, or who become disabled or die before age 62 in that year, by the same percentage as the increase in the average of the total wages (see appendix I).
(3) We will publish benefit formulas for years after 1979 in the
Federal Register
at the same time we publish the average of the total wage figures. We begin to use a new benefit formula as soon as it is applicable, even before we periodically update appendix II.
(4) We may use a modified formula, as explained in § 404.213, if you are entitled to a pension based on your employment which was not covered by Social Security.
(c)
Computing your primary insurance amount from the benefit formula.
We compute your primary insurance amount by applying the benefit formula to your average indexed monthly earnings and adding the results for each step of the formula. For computations using the benefit formulas in effect for 1979 through 1982, we round the
total amount to the next higher multiple of $0.10 if it is not a multiple of $0.10 and for computations using the benefit formulas effective for 1983 and later years, we round to the next lower multiple of $0.10. (See paragraph (e) of this section for a discussion of the minimum primary insurance amount.)
(d)
Adjustment of your primary insurance amount when entitlement to benefits occurs in a year after attainment of age 62, disability or death.
If you (or your survivors) do not become entitled to benefits in the same year you reach age 62, become disabled, or die before age 62, we compute your primary insurance amount by—
(1) Computing your average indexed monthly earnings as described in § 404.211;
(2) Applying to your average indexed monthly earnings the benefit formula for the year in which you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62; and
(3) Applying to the primary insurance amount all automatic cost-of-living and
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts that have gone into effect in or after the year you reached age 62, became disabled, or died before age 62. (See § 404.277 for special rules on minimum benefits, and appendix VI for a table of percentage increases in primary insurance amounts since December 1978. Increases in primary insurance amounts are published in the
Federal Register
and we periodically update appendix VI.)
(e)
Minimum primary insurance amount.
If you were eligible for benefits, or died without having been eligible, before 1982, your primary insurance amount computed under this method cannot be less than $122. This minimum benefit provision has been repealed effective with January 1982 for most workers and their families where the worker initially becomes eligible for benefits in that or a later month, or dies in January 1982 or a later month without having been eligible before January 1982. For members of a religious order who are required to take a vow of poverty, as explained in 20 CFR 404.1024, and which religious order elected Social Security coverage before December 29, 1981, the repeal is effective with January 1992 based on first eligibility or death in that month or later.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 46142, Oct. 11, 1983; 51 FR 4482, Feb. 5, 1986; 52 FR 47916, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.213
Computation where you are eligible for a pension based on your noncovered employment.
(a)
When applicable.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, we will modify the formula prescribed in § 404.212 and in appendix II of this subpart in the following situations:
(1) You become eligible for old-age insurance benefits after 1985; or
(2) You become eligible for disability insurance benefits after 1985; and
(3) For the same months after 1985 that you are entitled to old-age or disability benefits, you are also entitled to a monthly pension(s) for which you first became eligible after 1985 based in whole or part on your earnings in employment which was not covered under Social Security. We consider you to first become eligible for a monthly pension in the first month for which you met all requirements for the pension except that you were working or had not yet applied. In determining whether you are eligible for a pension before 1986, we consider all applicable service used by the pension-paying agency. (Noncovered employment includes employment outside the United States which is not covered under the United States Social Security system. Pensions from noncovered employment outside the United States include both pensions from social insurance systems that base benefits on earnings but not on residence or citizenship, and those from private employers. However, for benefits payable for months prior to January 1995, we will not modify the computation of a totalization benefit (see §§ 404.1908 and 404.1918) as a result of your entitlement to another pension based on employment covered by a totalization agreement. Beginning January 1995, we will not modify the computation of a totalization benefit in any case (see § 404.213(e)(8)).
(b)
Amount of your monthly pension that we use.
For purposes of computing your primary insurance amount, we consider the amount of your monthly pension(s) (or the amount prorated on
a monthly basis) which is attributable to your noncovered work after 1956 that you are entitled to for the first month in which you are concurrently entitled to Social Security benefits. For applications filed before December 1988, we will use the month of earliest concurrent eligibility. In determining the amount of your monthly pension we will use, we will consider the following:
(1) If your pension is not paid on a monthly basis or is paid in a lump-sum, we will allocate it proportionately as if it were paid monthly. We will allocate this the same way we allocate lump-sum payments for a spouse or surviving spouse whose benefits are reduced because of entitlement to a Government pension. (See § 404.408a.)
(2) If your monthly pension is reduced to provide a survivor's benefit, we will use the unreduced amount.
(3) If the monthly pension amount which we will use in computing your primary insurance amount is not a multiple of $0.10, we will round it to the next lower multiple of $0.10.
(c)
How we compute your primary insurance amount.
When you become entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits and to a monthly pension, we will compute your primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method (§ 404.212) as modified by paragraph (c) (1) and (2) of this section. Where applicable, we will also consider the 1977 simplified old-start method (§ 404.241) as modified by § 404.243 and a special minimum primary insurance amount as explained in §§ 404.260 and 404.261. We will use the highest result from these three methods as your primary insurance amount. We compute under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method, and use the higher primary insurance amount resulting from the application of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, as follows:
(1) The formula in appendix II, except that instead of the first percentage figure (
i.e.
, 90 percent), we use—
(i) 80 percent if you initially become eligible for old-age or disability insurance benefits in 1986;
(ii) 70 percent for initial eligibility in 1987;
(iii) 60 percent for initial eligibility in 1988;
(iv) 50 percent for initial eligibility in 1989;
(v) 40 percent for initial eligibility in 1990 and later years, or
(2) The formula in appendix II minus one-half the portion of your monthly pension which is due to noncovered work after 1956 and for which you were entitled in the first month you were entitled to both Social Security benefits and the monthly pension. If the monthly pension amount is not a multiple of $0.10, we will round to the next lower multiple of $0.10. To determine the portion of your pension which is due to noncovered work after 1956, we consider the total number of years of work used to compute your pension and the percentage of those years which are after 1956, and in which your employment was not covered. We take that percentage of your total pension as the amount which is due to your noncovered work after 1956.
(d)
Alternate computation.
(1) If you have more than 20 but less than 30 years of coverage as defined in the column headed “Alternate Computation Under § 404.213(d)” in appendix IV of this subpart, we will compute your primary insurance amount using the applicable percentage given below instead of the first percentage in appendix II of this subpart if the applicable percentage below is larger than the percentage specified in paragraph (c) of this section:
(i) For benefits payable for months before January 1989—
Years of coverage
Percent
29
80
28
70
27
60
26
50
(ii) For benefits payable for months after December 1988—
Years of coverage
Percent
29
85
28
80
27
75
26
70
25
65
24
60
23
55
22
50
21
45
(2) If you later earn additional year(s) of coverage, we will recompute your primary insurance amount, effective with January of the following year.
(e)
Exceptions.
The computations in paragraph (c) of this section do not apply in the following situations:
(1) Payments made under the Railroad Retirement Act are not considered to be a pension from noncovered employment for the purposes of this section. See subpart O of this part for a discussion of railroad retirement benefits.
(2) You were entitled before 1986 to disability insurance benefits in any of the 12 months before you reach age 62 or again become disabled. (See § 404.251 for the appropriate computation.)
(3) You were a Federal employee performing service on January 1, 1984 to which Social Security coverage was extended on that date solely by reason of the amendments made by section 101 of the Social Security Amendments of 1983.
(4) You were an employee of a nonprofit organization who was exempt from Social Security coverage on December 31, 1983 unless you were previously covered under a waiver certificate which was terminated prior to that date.
(5) You have 30 years of coverage as defined in the column headed “Alternate Computation Under § 404.213(d)” in appendix IV of this subpart.
(6) Your survivors are entitled to benefits on your record of earnings. (After your death, we will recompute the primary insurance amount to nullify the effect of any monthly pension, based in whole or in part on noncovered employment, to which you had been entitled.)
(7) For benefits payable for months after December 1994, payments by the social security system of a foreign country which are based on a totalization agreement between the United States and that country are not considered to be a pension from noncovered employment for purposes of this section. See subpart T of this part for a discussion of totalization agreements.
(8) For benefits payable for months after December 1994, the computations in paragraph (c) do not apply in the case of an individual whose entitlement to U.S. social security benefits results from a totalization agreement between the United States and a foreign country.
(9) For benefits payable for months after December 1994, you are eligible after 1985 for monthly periodic benefits based wholly on service as a member of a uniformed service, including inactive duty training.
(f)
Entitlement to a totalization benefit and a pension based on noncovered employment.
If, before January 1995, you are entitled to a totalization benefit and to a pension based on noncovered employment that is not covered by a totalization agreement, we count your coverage from a foreign country with which the United States (U.S.) has a totalization agreement and your U.S. coverage to determine if you meet the requirements for the modified computation in paragraph (d) of this section or the exception in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(1) Where the amount of your totalization benefit will be determined using a computation method that does not consider foreign earnings (see § 404.1918), we will find your total years of coverage by adding your—
(i) Years of coverage from the agreement country (quarters of coverage credited under § 404.1908 divided by four) and
(ii) Years of U.S. coverage as defined for the purpose of computing the special minimum primary insurance amount under § 404.261.
(2) Where the amount of your totalization benefit will be determined using a computation method that does consider foreign earnings, we will credit your foreign earnings to your U.S. earnings record and then find your total years of coverage using the method described in § 404.261.
[52 FR 47916, Dec. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 21382, May 24, 1990; 57 FR 22429, May 28, 1992; 60 FR 17444, Apr. 6, 1995; 60 FR 56513, Nov. 9, 1995]

# Average-Monthly-Wage Method of Computing Primary Insurance Amounts
§ 404.220
Average-monthly-wage method.
(a)
Who is eligible for this method.
You must before 1979, reach age 62, become disabled or die to be eligible for us to compute your primary insurance amount under the average-monthly-wage method. Also, as explained in § 404.230, if you reach age 62 after 1978 but before 1984, you are eligible to have your primary insurance amount computed under a modified average-monthly-wage method if it is to your advantage. Being eligible for either the average-monthly-wage method or the modified average-monthly-wage method does not preclude your eligibility under the
old-start
method described in §§ 404.240 through 404.242.
(b)
Steps in computing your primary insurance amount under the average-monthly-wage method.
We follow these three major steps in computing your primary insurance amount under the average-monthly-wage method:
(1) First, we find your average monthly wage, as described in § 404.221;
(2) Second, we look at the
benefit table
in appendix III; and
(3) Then we find your primary insurance amount in the benefit table, as described in § 404.222.
(4) Finally, we apply any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases that became effective in or after the year you reached age 62, or became disabled, or died before age 62, as explained in §§ 404.270 through 404.277.
§ 404.221
Computing your average monthly wage.
(a)
General.
Under the average-monthly-wage method, your social security earnings are averaged over the length of time you can reasonably have been expected to have worked under social security after 1950 (or after you reached age 21, if later).
(b)
Which of your earnings may be used in computing your average monthly wage.
(1) In computing your average monthly wage, we consider all the wages, compensation, self-employment income, and deemed military wage credits that are creditable to you for social security purposes. (The maximum amounts creditable are explained in §§ 404.1047 and 404.1096 of this part.)
(2) We use your earnings in your
computation base years
in computing your average monthly wage. All years after 1950 up to (but not including) the year you become entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits, or through the year you die if you had not been entitled to old-age or disability benefits, are computation base years for you. Years after the year you die may not be used as computation base years even if you have earnings credited to you in them. However, years beginning with the year you become entitled to benefits may be used for benefits beginning with the following year if using them would give you a higher primary insurance amount. Years wholly within a period of disability are not computation base years unless your primary insurance amount would be higher if they were. In such situations, we count all the years during the period of disability, even if you had no earnings in some of them.
(c)
Number of years to be considered in computing your average monthly wage.
To find the number of years to be used in computing your average monthly wage—
(1) We count the years beginning with 1951 or (if later) the year you reached age 22 and ending with the year before you reached age 62, or became disabled, or died before age 62. Any part of a year—or years—in which you were disabled, as defined in § 404.1505, is not counted unless doing so would give you a higher average monthly wage. In that case, we count all the years during the period of disability, even if you had no earnings in some of those years. These are your
elapsed years.
(If you are a male and you reached age 62 before 1975, see paragraph (c)(2) of this section for the rules on finding your elapsed years.)
(2) If you are a male and you reached age 62 in—
(i) 1972 or earlier, we count the years beginning with 1951 and ending with the year before you reached age 65, or became disabled or died before age 65 to find your elapsed years;
(ii) 1973, we count the years beginning with 1951 and ending with the year
before you reached age 64, or became disabled or died before age 64 to find your elapsed years; or
(iii) 1974, we count the years beginning with 1951 and ending with the year before you reached age 63, became disabled, or died before age 63 to find your elapsed years.
(3) Then we subtract 5 from the number of your elapsed years. This is the number of your
benefit computation years
; we use the same number of your computation base years in computing your average monthly wage. For benefit computation years, we use the years with the highest amounts of earnings, but they may include years of no earnings. You cannot have fewer than 2 benefit computation years.
(d)
Your average monthly wage.
After we find your benefit computation years, we compute your average monthly wage by—
(1) Totalling your creditable earnings in your benefit computation years;
(2) Dividing the total by the number of months in your benefit computation years; and
(3) Rounding the quotient to the next lower whole dollar if not already a multiple of $1.

# Example:
Mr. B reaches age 62 and becomes entitled to old-age insurance benefits in August 1978. He had no social security earnings before 1951 and his year-by-year social security earnings after 1950 are as follows:
Year
Earnings
1951
$2,700
1952
2,700
1953
3,400
1954
3,100
1955
4,000
1956
4,100
1957
4,000
1958
4,200
1959
4,800
1960
4,800
1961
4,800
1962
4,800
1963
4,800
1964
1,500
1965
0
1966
0
1967
0
1968
3,100
1969
5,200
1970
7,100
1971
7,800
1972
8,600
1973
8,900
1974
9,700
1975
10,100
1976
10,800
1977
11,900
We first find Mr. B's elapsed years, which are the 27 years 1951-1977. We subtract 5 from his 27 elapsed years to find that we must use 22 benefit computation years in computing his average monthly wage. His computation base years are 1951-1977, which are the years after 1950 and prior to the year he became entitled. This means that we will use his 22 computation base years with the highest earnings to compute his average monthly wage. Thus, we exclude the years 1964-1967 and 1951.
We total his earnings in his benefit computation years and get $132,700. We then divide that amount by the 264 months in his 22 benefit computation years and find his average monthly wage to be $502.65, which is rounded down to $502.
(e)
“Deemed” average monthly wage for certain deceased veterans of World War II.
Certain deceased veterans of World War II are “deemed” to have an average monthly wage of $160 (see §§ 404.1340 through 404.1343 of this part) unless their actual average monthly wage, as found in the method described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section is higher.
§ 404.222
Use of benefit table in finding your primary insurance amount from your average monthly wage.
(a)
General.
We find your primary insurance amount under the average-monthly-wage method in the benefit table in appendix III.
(b)
Finding your primary insurance amount from benefit table.
We find your average monthly wage in column III of the table. Your primary insurance amount appears on the same line in column IV (column II if you are entitled to benefits for any of the 12 months preceding the effective month in column IV). As explained in § 404.212(e), there is a minimum primary insurance amount of $122 payable for persons who became eligible or died after 1978 and before January 1982. There is also an alternative minimum of $121.80 (before the application of cost-of-living increases) for members of this group whose benefits were computed from the benefit table in effect in December 1978 on the basis of either the old-start computation method in §§ 404.240 through 404.242 or the guaranteed alternative computation method explained in §§ 404.230 through 404.233. However, as can be seen from the extended table in appendix III, the lowest
primary insurance amount under this method is now $1.70 for individuals for whom the minimum benefit has been repealed.

# Example:
In the example in § 404.221(d), we computed Mr. B's average monthly wage to be $502. We refer to the December 1978 benefit table in appendix III. Then we find his average monthly wage in column III of the table. Reading across, his primary insurance amount is on the same line in column IV and is $390.50. A 9.9 percent automatic cost-of-living benefit increase was effective for June 1979, increasing Mr. B's primary insurance amount to $429.20, as explained in §§ 404.270 through 404.277. Then, we increase the $429.20 by the 14.3 percent June 1980 cost-of-living benefit increase and get $490.60, and by the 11.2 percent June 1981 increase to get $545.60.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 46142, Oct. 11, 1983]

# Guaranteed Alternative for People Reaching Age 62 After 1978 but Before 1984
§ 404.230
Guaranteed alternative.
(a)
General.
If you reach age 62 after 1978 but before 1984, we compute your primary insurance amount under a modified average-monthly-wage method as a
guaranteed alternative
to your primary insurance amount computed under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method. We also compute your primary insurance amount under the old-start method (§§ 404.240 through 404.242) and under the special rules for a person who had a period of disability (§§ 404.250 through 404.252), if you are eligible. In §§ 404.231 through 404.233, we explain the average-monthly-wage method as the alternative to the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method.
(b)
Restrictions.
(1) To qualify for this guaranteed-alternative computation, you must have some creditable earnings before 1979.
(2) You or your survivors do not qualify for a guaranteed-alternative computation if you were eligible (you attained age 62, became disabled, or died before age 62) for social security benefits based on your own earnings at any time before 1979 unless—
(i) Those benefits were disability insurance benefits which were terminated because you recovered from your disability or you engaged in substantial gainful activity; and
(ii) You spent at least 12 months without being eligible for disability benefits again.
(3) This guaranteed alternative method applies only to old-age insurance benefits and to survivor benefits where the deceased worker reached the month of his or her 62nd birthday after 1978 but before 1984 and died after reaching age 62.
§ 404.231
Steps in computing your primary insurance amount under the guaranteed alternative—general.
If you reach age 62 after 1978 but before 1984, we follow three major steps in finding your guaranteed alternative:
(a) First, we compute your average monthly wage, as described in § 404.232;
(b) Second, we find the primary insurance amount that corresponds to your average monthly wage in the benefit table in appendix III.
(c) Then we apply any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts that have become effective in or after the year you reached age 62.
§ 404.232
Computing your average monthly wage under the guaranteed alternative.
(a)
General.
With the exception described in paragraph (b) of this section, we follow the rules in § 404.221 to compute your average monthly wage.
(b)
Exception.
We do not use any year after the year you reach age 61 as a computation base year in computing your average monthly wage for purposes of the guaranteed alternative.
§ 404.233
Adjustment of your guaranteed alternative when you become entitled after age 62.
(a) If you do not become entitled to benefits at the time you reach age 62, we adjust the guaranteed alternative computed for you under § 404.232 as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) To the primary insurance amount computed under the guaranteed alternative, we apply any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts that go into effect in the year you reach age 62 and in years up through the year you become entitled to benefits. (See appendix VI for a list of the percentage increases in
primary insurance amounts since December 1978.)

# Example:
Mr. C reaches age 62 in January 1981 and becomes entitled to old-age insurance benefits in April 1981. He had no social security earnings before 1951 and his year-by-year social security earnings after 1950 are as follows:
Year
Earnings
1951
$3,600
1952
3,600
1953
3,600
1954
3,600
1955
4,200
1956
4,200
1957
4,200
1958
4,200
1959
4,800
1960
4,800
1961
4,800
1962
4,800
1963
4,800
1964
4,800
1965
4,800
1966
6,600
1967
6,600
1968
7,800
1969
7,800
1970
7,800
1971
7,800
1972
9,000
1973
10,800
1974
13,200
1975
14,100
1976
15,300
1977
16,500
1978
17,700
1979
22,900
1980
25,900
1981
29,700
Mr. C's elapsed years are the 30 years 1951 through 1980. We subtract 5 from his 30 elapsed years to find that we must use 25 benefit computation years in computing his average monthly wage. His computation base years are 1951 through 1980 which are years after 1950 up to the year he reached age 62. We will use his 25 computation base years with the highest earnings to compute his average monthly wage. Thus, we exclude the years 1951-1955. The year 1981 is not a base year for this computation.
We total his earnings in his benefit computation years and get $236,000. We then divide by the 300 months in his 25 benefit computation years, and find his average monthly wage to be $786.66 which is rounded down to $786.
The primary insurance amount in the benefit table in appendix III that corresponds to Mr. C's average monthly wage is $521.70. The 9.9 percent and 14.3 percent cost of living increase for 1979 and 1980, respectively, are not applicable because Mr. C reached age 62 in 1981.
The average indexed monthly earnings method described in §§ 404.210 through 404.212 considers all of the earnings after 1950, including 1981 earnings which, in Mr. C's case cannot be used in the guaranteed alternative method. Mr. C's primary insurance amount under the average indexed earnings method is $548.40. Therefore, his benefit is based upon the $548.40 primary insurance amount. As in the guaranteed alternative method, Mr. C is not entitled to the cost of living increases for years before the year he reaches age 62.

# Old-Start Method of Computing Primary Insurance Amounts
§ 404.240
Old-start method—general.
If you had all or substantially all your social security earnings before 1951, your primary insurance amount computed under the “1977 simplified old-start” method may be higher than any other primary insurance amount computed for you under any other method for which you are eligible. As explained in § 404.242, if you reach age 62 after 1978, your primary insurance amount computed under the old-start method is used, for purposes of the guaranteed alternative described in § 404.230, if the old-start primary insurance amount is higher than the one found under the average-monthly-wage method. We may use a modified computation, as explained in § 404.243, if you are entitled to a pension based on your employment which was not covered by Social Security.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 47917, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.241
1977 simplified old-start method.
(a)
Who is qualified.
To qualify for the old-start computation, you must meet the conditions in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this section:
(1) You must—
(i) Have one “quarter of coverage” (see §§ 404.101 and 404.110 of this part) before 1951;
(ii) Have attained age 21 after 1936 and before 1950, or attained age 22 after 1950 and earned fewer than 6 quarters of coverage after 1950;
(iii) Have not had a period of disability which began before 1951, unless it can be disregarded, as explained in § 404.320 of this part; and,
(iv) Have attained age 62, become disabled, or died, after 1977.
(2)(i) You or your survivor becomes entitled to benefits for June 1992 or later;
(ii) You do not meet the conditions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and,
(iii) No person is entitled to benefits on your earnings record in the month before the month you or your survivor becomes entitled to benefits.
(3) A recomputation is first effective for June 1992 or later based on your earnings for 1992 or later.
(b)
Steps in old-start computation.
(1) First, we allocate your earnings during the period 1937-1950 as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Next, we compute your average monthly wage, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) Next, we apply the old-start formula to your average monthly wage, as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(4) Next, we apply certain increments to the amount computed in step (3), as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(5) Next, we find your primary insurance amount in the benefit table in appendix III, as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(6) Then, we apply automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts to the primary insurance amount found in step (5), as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(c)
Finding your computation base years under the old-start method.
(1) Instead of using your actual year-by-year earnings before 1951, we find your computation base years for 1937-1950 (and the amount of earnings for each of them) by allocating your total 1937-1950 earnings among the years before 1951 under the following procedure:
(i) If you reached age 21 before 1950 and your total 1937-1950 earnings
are not
more than $3,000 times the number of years after the year you reached age 20 and before 1951 (a maximum of 14 years), we allocate your earnings equally among those years, and those years are your computation base years before 1951.
(ii) If you reached age 21 before 1950 and your total 1937-1950 earnings
are
more than $3,000 times the number of years after the year you reached age 20 and before 1951, we allocate your earnings at the rate of $3,000 per year for each year after you reached age 20 and before 1951 up to a maximum of 14 years. We credit any remainder in reverse order to years before age 21 in $3,000 increments and any amount left over of less than $3,000 to the year before the earliest year to which we credited $3,000. No more than $42,000 may be credited in this way and to no more than 14 years. Those years are your computation base years before 1951.
(iii) If you reached age 21 in 1950 or later and your total pre-1951 earnings are $3,000 or less, we credit the total to the year you reached age 20 and that year is your pre-1951 computation base year.
(iv) If you reached age 21 in 1950 or later and your total pre-1951 earnings are more than $3,000, we credit $3,000 to the year you reached age 20 and credit the remainder to earlier years (or year) in blocks of $3,000 in reverse order. We credit any remainder of less than $3,000 to the year before the earliest year to which we had credited $3,000. No more than $42,000 may be credited in this way and to no more than 14 years. Those years are your computation base years before 1951.
(v) If you die before 1951, we allocate your 1937-1950 earnings under paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (iv), except that in determining the number of years, we will use the year of death instead of 1951. If you die before you attain age 21, the number of years in the period is equal to 1.
(vi) For purposes of paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (v), if you had a period of disability which began before 1951, we will exclude the years wholly within a period of disability in determining the number of years.
(2)(i) All years after 1950 up to (but not including) the year you become entitled to old-age insurance or disability insurance benefits (or through the year you die if you had not become entitled to old-age or disability benefits) are also computation base years for you.
(ii) Years wholly within a period of disability are not computation base years unless your primary insurance amount would be higher if they were. In such situations, we count all the years during the period of disability,
even if you had no earnings in some of them.

# Example:
Ms. D reaches age 62 in June 1979. Her total 1937-1950 social security earnings are $40,000 and she had social security earnings of $7,100 in 1976 and $6,300 in 1977. Since she reaches age 62 after 1978, we first compute her primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method (§§ 404.210 through 404.212). As of June 1981, it is $170.50, which is the minimum primary insurance amount applicable, because her average indexed monthly earnings of $50 would yield only $56.50 under the benefit formula. Ms. D reached age 62 after 1978 but before 1984 and her guaranteed alternative under the average-monthly-wage method as of June 1981 is $170.30, which is the minimum primary insurance amount based on average monthly wages of $48. (These amounts include the 9.9, the 14.3, and the 11.2 percent cost-of-living increases effective June 1979, June 1980, and June 1981 respectively.)
Ms. D is also eligible for the old-start method. We first allocate $3,000 of her 1937-1950 earnings to each of her 13 computation base years starting with the year she reached age 21 (1938) and ending with 1950. The remaining $1,000 is credited to the year she reached age 20. Ms. D, then, has 42 computation base years (14 before 1951 and 28 after 1950).
(d)
Computing your average monthly wage under the old-start method.
(1) First, we count your elapsed years, which are the years beginning with 1937 (or the year you reach 22, if later) and ending with the year before you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62. (See § 404.211(e)(1) for the rule on how we treat years wholly or partially within a period of disability.)
(2) Next, we subtract 5 from the number of your elapsed years, and this is the number of computation years we must use. We then choose this number of your computation base years in which you had the highest earnings. These years are your benefit computation years. You must have at least 2 benefit computation years.
(3) Then we compute your average monthly wage by dividing your total creditable earnings in your benefit computation years by the number of months in these years and rounding the quotient to the next lower dollar if not already a multiple of $1.
(e)
Old-start computation formula.
We use the following formula to compute your primary insurance benefit, which we will convert to your primary insurance amount:
(1) We take 40 percent of the first $50 of your average monthly wage, plus 10 percent of the next $200 of your average monthly wage up to a total average monthly wage of $250. (We do not use more than $250 of your average monthly wage.)
(2) We increase the amount found in paragraph (e)(1) of this section by 1 percent for each $1,650 in your pre-1951 earnings, disregarding any remainder less than $1,650. We always increase the amount by at least 4 of these 1 percent increments but may not increase it by more than 14 of them.
(f)
Finding your primary insurance amount under the old-start method.
(1) In column I of the benefit table in appendix III we locate the amount (the primary insurance benefit) computed in paragraph (e) of this section and find the corresponding primary insurance amount on the same line in column IV of the table.
(2) We increase that amount by any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts effective since the beginning of the year in which you reached age 62, or became disabled or died before age 62. (See §§ 404.270 through 404.277.)

# Example:
From the example in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, we see that Ms. D's elapsed years total 40 (number of years at ages 22 to 61, both inclusive). Her benefit computation years, therefore, must total 35. Since she has only 16 years of actual earnings, we must include 19 years of zero earnings in this old-start computation to reach the required 35 benefit computation years.
We next divide her total social security earnings ($53,400) by the 420 months in her benefit computation years and find her average monthly wage to be $127.
We apply the old-start computation formula to Ms. D's average monthly wage as follows: 40 percent of the first $50 of her average monthly wage ($20.00), plus 10 percent of the remaining $77 of her average monthly wage ($7.70), for a total of $27.70.
We then apply 14 1-percent increments to that amount, increasing it by $3.88 to $31.58. We find $31.58 in column I of the December 1978 benefit table in appendix III and find her primary insurance amount of $195.90 on the same line in column IV. We apply the 9.9 percent automatic cost-of-living increase effective for June 1979 to $195.90 and get an old-start primary insurance amount of $215.30 which we then increase to $246.10 to reflect
the 14.3 percent cost-of-living increase effective for June 1980, and to $273.70 to reflect the June 1981 increase. Since that primary insurance amount is higher than the $153.10 primary insurance amount computed under the average-monthly-wage method and the $153.30 primary insurance amount computed under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method, we base Ms. D's benefits (and those of her family) on $215.30 (plus later cost-of-living increases), which is the highest primary insurance amount.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 21382, May 24, 1990; 57 FR 23157, June 2, 1992]
§ 404.242
Use of old-start primary insurance amount as guaranteed alternative.
If your primary insurance amount as computed under the old-start method is higher than your primary insurance amount computed under the average-monthly-wage method, your old-start primary insurance amount will serve as the guaranteed alternative to your primary insurance amount computed under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method, as described in § 404.230. However, earnings that you have in or after the year you reach age 62, or become disabled or die before age 62 are not used in an old-start computation in this situation.
§ 404.243
Computation where you are eligible for a pension based on noncovered employment.
The provisions of § 404.213 are applicable to computations under the old-start method, except for paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) and (d) of that section. Your primary insurance amount will be whichever of the following two amounts is larger:
(a) One-half the primary insurance amount computed according to § 404.241 (before application of the cost of living amount); or
(b) The primary insurance amount computed according to § 404.241 (before application of the cost of living amount), minus one-half the portion of your monthly pension which is due to noncovered work after 1956 and for which you were eligible in the first month you became eligible for Social Security benefits. If the result is not a multiple of $0.10, we will round to the next lower multiple of $0.10. (See § 404.213 (b)(3) if you are not eligible for a monthly pension in the first month you are entitled to Social Security benefits.) To determine the portion of your pension which is due to noncovered work after 1956, we consider the total number of years of work used to compute your pension and the percentage of those years which are after 1956 and in which your employment was not covered. We take that percentage of your total pension as the amount which is due to your noncovered work after 1956.
[52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]

# Special Computation Rules for People Who Had a Period of Disability
§ 404.250
Special computation rules for people who had a period of disability.
If you were disabled at some time in your life, received disability insurance benefits, and those benefits were terminated because you recovered from your disability or because you engaged in substantial gainful activity, special rules apply in computing your primary insurance amount when you become eligible after 1978 for old-age insurance benefits or if you become re-entitled to disability insurance benefits or die. (For purposes of §§ 404.250 through 404.252, we use the term
second entitlement
to refer to this situation.) There are two sets of rules:
(a)
Second entitlement within 12 months.
If 12 months or fewer pass between the last month for which you received a disability insurance benefit and your second entitlement, see the rules in § 404.251; and
(b)
Second entitlement after more than 12 months.
If more than 12 months pass between the last month for which you received a disability insurance benefit and your second entitlement, see the rules in § 404.252.
§ 404.251
Subsequent entitlement to benefits less than 12 months after entitlement to disability benefits ended.
(a)
Disability before 1979; second entitlement after 1978.
In this situation, we compute your second-entitlement primary insurance amount by selecting the highest of the following:
(1) The primary insurance amount to which you were entitled when you last received a benefit, increased by any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts that took effect since then;
(2) The primary insurance amount resulting from a recomputation of your primary insurance amount, if one is possible; or
(3) The primary insurance amount computed for you as of the time of your second entitlement under any method for which you are qualified at that time, including the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method if the previous period of disability is disregarded.
(b)
Disability and second entitlement after 1978.
In this situation, we compute your second-entitlement primary insurance amount by selecting the highest of the following:
(1) The primary insurance amount to which you were entitled when you last received a benefit, increased by any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amount that took effect since then;
(2) The primary insurance amount resulting from a recomputation of your primary insurance amount, if one is possible (this recomputation may be under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method only); or
(3) The primary insurance amount computed for you as of the time of your second entitlement under any method (including an old-start method) for which you are qualified at that time.
(c)
Disability before 1986; second entitlement after 1985.
When applying the rule in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, we must consider your receipt of a monthly pension based on noncovered employment. (See § 404.213). However, we will disregard your monthly pension if you were previously entitled to disability benefits before 1986 and in any of the 12 months before your second entitlement.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.252
Subsequent entitlement to benefits 12 months or more after entitlement to disability benefits ended.
In this situation, we compute your second-entitlement primary insurance amount by selecting the higher of the following:
(a)
New primary insurance amount.
The primary insurance amount computed as of the time of your second entitlement under any of the computation methods for which you qualify at the time of your second entitlement; or
(b)
Previous primary insurance amount.
The primary insurance amount to which you were entitled in the last month for which you were entitled to a disability insurance benefit.

# Special Minimum Primary Insurance Amounts
§ 404.260
Special minimum primary insurance amounts.
Regardless of the method we use to compute your primary insurance amount, if the special minimum primary insurance amount described in § 404.261 is higher, then your benefits (and those of your dependents or survivors) will be based on the special minimum primary insurance amount. Special minimum primary insurance amounts are not based on a worker's average earnings, as are primary insurance amounts computed under other methods. Rather, the special minimum primary insurance amount is designed to provide higher benefits to people who worked for long periods in low-paid jobs covered by social security.
§ 404.261
Computing your special minimum primary insurance amount.
(a)
Years of coverage.
(1) The first step in computing your special minimum primary insurance amount is to find the number of your years of coverage, which is the sum of—
(i) The quotient found by dividing your total creditable social security earnings during the period 1937-1950 by $900, disregarding any fractional remainder; plus
(ii) The number of your computation base years after 1950 in which your social security earnings were at least the amounts shown in appendix IV.
(
Computation base years
mean the same here as in other computation methods discussed in this subpart.)
(2) You must have at least 11 years of coverage to qualify for a special minimum primary insurance amount computation. However, special minimum primary insurance amounts based on little more than 10 years of coverage are usually lower than the regular minimum benefit that was in effect before 1982 (see §§ 404.212(e) and 404.222(b) of this part). In any situation where your primary insurance amount computed under another method is higher, we use that higher amount.
(b)
Computing your special minimum primary insurance amount.
(1) First, we subtract 10 from your years of coverage and multiply the remainder (at least 1 and no more than 20) by $11.50;
(2) Then we increase the amount found in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases that have become effective since December 1978 to find your special minimum primary insurance amount. See appendix V for the applicable table, which includes the 9.9 percent cost-of-living increase that became effective June 1979, the 14.3 percent increase that became effective June 1980, and the 11.2 percent increase that became effective June 1981.

# Example:
Ms. F, who attained age 62 in January 1979, had $10,000 in total social security earnings before 1951 and her post-1950 earnings are as follows:
Year
Earnings
1951
$1,100
1952
950
1953
0
1954
1,000
1955
1,100
1956
1,200
1957
0
1958
1,300
1959
0
1960
1,300
1961
0
1962
1,400
1963
1,300
1964
0
1965
500
1966
700
1967
650
1968
900
1969
1,950
1970
2,100
1971
2,000
1972
1,500
1973
2,700
1974
2,100
1975
2,600
1976
3,850
1977
4,150
1978
0
Her primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method as of June 1981 is $240.40 (based on average indexed monthly earnings of $229). Her guaranteed-alternative primary insurance amount under the average-monthly-wage method as of June 1981 is $255.80 (based on average monthly wages of $131).
However, Ms. F has enough earnings before 1951 to allow her 11 years of coverage before 1951 ($10,000 ÷ $900 = 11, plus a remainder, which we drop). She has sufficient earnings in 1951-52, 1954-56, 1958, 1960, 1962-63, 1969-71, 1973, and 1976-77 to have a year of coverage for each of those years. She thus has 15 years of coverage after 1950 and a total of 26 years of coverage. We subtract 10 from her years of coverage, multiply the remainder (16) by $11.50 and get $184.00. We then apply the June 1979, June 1980, and June 1981 automatic cost-of-living increases (9.9 percent, 14.3 percent, and 11.2 percent, respectively) to that amount to find her special minimum primary insurance amount of $202.30 effective June 1979, $231.30 effective June 1980, and $257.30 effective June 1981. (See appendices V and VI.) Since her special minimum primary insurance amount is higher than the primary insurance amounts computed for her under the other methods described in this subpart for which she is eligible, her benefits (and those of her family) are based on the special minimum primary insurance amount.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 46143, Oct. 11, 1983]

# Cost-of-Living Increases
§ 404.270
Cost-of-living increases.
Your primary insurance amount may be automatically increased each December so it keeps up with rises in the cost of living. These automatic increases also apply to other benefit amounts, as described in § 404.271.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 12603, Apr. 14, 1986]
§ 404.271
When automatic cost-of-living increases apply.
Besides increases in the primary insurance amounts of current beneficiaries, automatic cost-of-living increases also apply to—
(a) The special minimum primary insurance amounts (described in §§ 404.260
through 404.261) of current and future beneficiaries;
(b) The primary insurance amounts of people who after 1978 become eligible for benefits or die before becoming eligible (beginning with December of the year they become eligible or die), although certain limitations are placed on the automatic adjustment of the frozen minimum primary insurance amount (as described in § 404.277); and
(c) The
maximum family benefit amounts
in column V of the benefit table in appendix III.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 12603, Apr. 14, 1986; 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.272
Indexes we use to measure the rise in the cost-of-living.
(a)
The bases.
To measure increases in the cost-of-living for annual automatic increase purposes, we use either:
(1) The revised Consumer Price Index (CPI) for urban wage earners and clerical workers as published by the Department of Labor, or
(2) The average wage index (AWI), which is the average of the annual total wages that we use to index (
i.e.
, update) a worker's past earnings when we compute his or her primary insurance amount (§ 404.211(c)).
(b)
Effect of the OASDI fund ratio.
Which of these indexes we use to measure increases in the cost-of-living depends on the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) fund ratio.
(c)
OASDI fund ratio for years after 1984.
For purposes of cost-of-living increases, the OASDI fund ratio is the ratio of the combined assets in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund (see section 201 of the Social Security Act) on January 1 of a given year, to the estimated expenditures from the Funds in the same year. The January 1 balance consists of the assets (
i.e.
, government bonds and cash) in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, plus Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) and Self-Employment Contributions Act (SECA) taxes transferred to these trust funds on January 1 of the given year, minus the outstanding amounts (principal and interest) owed to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund as a result of interfund loans. Estimated expenditures are amounts we expect to pay from the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the Disability Insurance Trust Funds during the year, including the net amount that we pay into the Railroad Retirement Account, but excluding principal repayments and interest payments to the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and transfer payments between the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the Disability Insurance Trust Funds. The ratio as calculated under this rule is rounded to the nearest 0.1 percent.
(d)
Which index we use.
We use the CPI if the OASDI fund ratio is 15.0 percent or more for any year from 1984 through 1988, and if the ratio is 20.0 percent or more for any year after 1988. We use either the CPI or the AWI, depending on which has the lower percentage increase in the applicable measuring period (see § 404.274), if the OASDI fund ratio is less than 15.0 percent for any year from 1984 through 1988, and if the ratio is less than 20.0 percent for any year after 1988. For example, if the OASDI fund ratio for a year is 17.0 percent, the cost-of-living increase effective December of that year will be based on the CPI.
[51 FR 12603, Apr. 14, 1986]
§ 404.273
When are automatic cost-of-living increases effective?
We make automatic cost-of-living increases if the applicable index, either the CPI or the AWI, rises over a specified measuring period (
see
the rules on measuring periods in § 404.274). If the cost-of-living increase is to be based on an increase in the CPI, the increase is effective in December of the year in which the measuring period ends. If the increase is to be based on an increase in the AWI, the increase is effective in December of the year after the year in which the measuring period ends.
[69 FR 19925, Apr. 15, 2004]
§ 404.274
What are the measuring periods we use to calculate cost-of-living increases?
(a)
General.
Depending on the OASDI fund ratio, we measure the rise in one index or in both indexes during the applicable measuring period (described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section) to determine whether there will be an automatic cost-of-living increase and if so, its amount.
(b)
Measuring period based on the CPI
—(1)
When the period begins.
The measuring period we use for finding the amount of the CPI increase begins with the later of—
(i) Any calendar quarter in which an
ad hoc
benefit increase is effective; or
(ii) The third calendar quarter of any year in which the last automatic increase became effective.
(2)
When the period ends.
The measuring period ends with the third calendar quarter of the following year. If this measuring period ends in a year after the year in which an ad hoc increase was enacted or took effect, there can be no cost-of-living increase at that time. We will extend the measuring period to the third calendar quarter of the next year.
(c)
Measuring period based on the AWI
—(1)
When the period begins.
The measuring period we use for finding the amount of the AWI increase begins with the later of—
(i) The calendar year before the year in which an
ad hoc
benefit increase is effective; or
(ii) The calendar year before the year in which the last automatic increase became effective.
(2)
When the period ends.
The measuring period ends with the following year. If this measuring period ends in a year in which an
ad hoc
increase was enacted or took effect, there can be no cost-of-living increase at that time. We will extend the measuring period to the next calendar year.
[69 FR 19925, Apr. 15, 2004]
§ 404.275
How is an automatic cost-of-living increase calculated?
(a)
Increase based on the CPI.
We compute the average of the CPI for the quarters that begin and end the measuring period by adding the three monthly CPI figures, dividing the total by three, and rounding the result to the same number of decimal places as the published CPI figures. If the number of decimal places in the published CPI values differs between those used for the beginning and ending quarters, we use the number for the ending quarter. If the average for the ending quarter is higher than the average for the beginning quarter, we divide the average for the ending quarter by the average of the beginning quarter to determine the percentage increase in the CPI over the measuring period.
(b)
Increase based on the AWI.
If the AWI for the year that ends the measuring period is higher than the AWI for the year which begins the measuring period and all the other conditions for an AWI-based increase are met, we divide the higher AWI by the lower AWI to determine the percentage increase in the AWI.
(c)
Rounding rules.
We round the increase from the applicable paragraph (a) or (b) of this section to the nearest 0.1 percent by rounding 0.05 percent and above to the next higher 0.1 percent and otherwise rounding to the next lower 0.1 percent. For example, if the applicable index is the CPI and the increase in the CPI is 3.15 percent, we round the increase to 3.2 percent. We then apply this percentage increase to the amounts described in § 404.271 and round the resulting dollar amounts to the next lower multiple of $0.10 (if not already a multiple of $0.10).
(d)
Additional increase. See
§ 404.278 for the additional increase that is possible.
[69 FR 19925, Apr. 15, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 2186, Jan. 18, 2007]
§ 404.276
Publication of notice of increase.
When we determine that an automatic cost-of-living increase is due, we publish in the
Federal Register
within 45 days of the end of the measuring period used in finding the amount of the increase—
(a) The fact that an increase is due;
(b) The amount of the increase;
(c) The increased special minimum primary insurance amounts; and
(d) The range of increased maximum family benefits that corresponds to the range of increased special minimum primary insurance amounts.
§ 404.277
When does the frozen minimum primary insurance amount increase because of cost-of-living adjustments?
(a)
What is the frozen minimum primary insurance amount (PIA)?
The frozen minimum is a minimum PIA for certain workers whose benefits are computed under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method. Section 404.210(a) with § 404.212(e) explains when the frozen minimum applies.
(b)
When does the frozen minimum primary insurance amount (PIA) increase automatically?
The frozen minimum PIA increases automatically in every year in which you or your dependents or survivors are entitled to benefits and a cost-of-living increase applies.
(c)
When are automatic increases effective for old-age or disability benefits based on a frozen minimum primary insurance amount (PIA)?
Automatic cost-of-living increases apply to your frozen minimum PIA beginning with the earliest of:
(1) December of the year you become entitled to benefits and receive at least a partial benefit;
(2) December of the year you reach full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) if you are entitled to benefits in or before the month you attain full retirement age, regardless of whether you receive at least a partial benefit; or
(3) December of the year you become entitled to benefits if that is after you attain full retirement age.
(d)
When are automatic increases effective for survivor benefits based on a frozen minimum primary insurance amount (PIA)?
(1) Automatic cost-of-living increases apply to the frozen minimum PIA used to determine survivor benefits in December of any year in which your child(ren), your surviving spouse caring for your child(ren), or your parent(s), are entitled to survivor benefits for at least one month.
(2) Automatic cost-of-living increases apply beginning with December of the earlier of:
(i) The year in which your surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse (as defined in §§ 404.335 and 404.336) has attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) and receives at least a partial benefit, or
(ii) The year in which your surviving spouse or surviving disabled spouse becomes entitled to benefits and receives at least a partial benefit.
(3) Automatic cost-of-living increases are not applied to the frozen minimum PIA in any year in which no survivor of yours is entitled to benefits on your social security record.
[68 FR 4702, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.278
Additional cost-of-living increase.
(a)
General.
In addition to the cost-of-living increase explained in § 404.275 for a given year, we will further increase the amounts in § 404.271 if—
(1) The OASDI fund ratio is more than 32.0 percent in the given year in which a cost-of-living increase is due; and
(2) In any prior year, the cost-of-living increase was based on the AWI as the lower of the CPI and AWI.
(b)
Measuring period for the additional increase
—(1) To compute the additional increase for all individuals and for maximum benefits payable to a family, we begin with the year in which the insured individual became eligible for old-age or disability benefits to which he or she is currently entitled, or died before becoming eligible.
(2)
Ending.
The end of the measuring period is the year before the first year in which a cost-of-living increase is due based on the CPI and in which the OASDI fund ratio is more than 32.0 percent.
(c)
Compounded percentage benefit increase.
To compute the additional cost-of-living increase, we must first compute the compounded percentage benefit increase (CPBI) for both the cost-of-living increases that were actually paid during the measuring period and for the increases that would have been paid if the CPI had been the basis for all the increases.
(d)
Computing the CPBI.
The computation of the CPBI is as follows—
(1) Obtain the sum of (i) 1.000 and (ii) the actual cost-of-living increase percentage (expressed as a decimal) for each year in the measuring period;
(2) Multiply the resulting amount for the first year by that for the second year, then multiply that product by
the amount for the third year, and continue until the last amount has been multiplied by the product of the preceding amounts;
(3) Subtract 1 from the last product;
(4) Multiply the remaining product by 100. The result is what we call the
actual
CPBI.
(5) Substitute the cost-of-living increase percentage(s) that would have been used if the increase(s) had been based on the CPI (for some years, this will be the percentage that was used), and do the same computations as in paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section. The result is what we call the
assumed
CPBI.
(e)
Computing the additional cost-of-living increase.
To compute the percentage increase, we—
(1) Subtract the actual CPBI from the assumed CPBI;
(2) Add 100 to the actual CPBI;
(3) Divide the answer from paragraph (e)(1) of this section by the answer from paragraph (e)(2) of this section, multiply the quotient by 100, and round to the nearest 0.1. The result is the additional increase percentage, which we apply to the appropriate amount described in § 404.271 after that amount has been increased under § 404.275 for a given year. If that increased amount is not a multiple of $0.10, we will decrease it to the next lower multiple of $0.10.
(f)
Restrictions on paying an additional cost-of-living increase.
We will pay the additional increase to the extent necessary to bring the benefits up to the level they would have been if they had been increased based on the CPI. However, we will pay the additional increase only to the extent payment will not cause the OASDI fund ratio to drop below 32.0 percent for the year after the year in which the increase is effective.
[51 FR 12604, Apr. 21, 1986, as amended at 69 FR 19925, Apr. 15, 2004; 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018]

# Recomputing Your Primary Insurance Amount
§ 404.280
Recomputations.
At times after you or your survivors become entitled to benefits, we will recompute your primary insurance amount. Usually we will recompute only if doing so will increase your primary insurance amount. However, we will also recompute your primary insurance amount if you first became eligible for old-age or disability insurance benefits after 1985, and later become entitled to a pension based on your noncovered employment, as explained in § 404.213. There is no limit on the number of times your primary insurance amount may be recomputed, and we do most recomputations automatically. In the following sections, we explain:
(a) Why a recomputation is made (§ 404.281),
(b) When a recomputation takes effect (§ 404.282),
(c) Methods of recomputing (§§ 404.283 and 404.284),
(d) Automatic recomputations (§ 404.285),
(e) Requesting a recomputation (§ 404.286),
(f) Waiving a recomputation (§ 404.287), and
(g) Recomputing when you are entitled to a pension based on noncovered employment (§ 404.288).
[52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.281
Why your primary insurance amount may be recomputed.
(a)
Earnings not included in earlier computation or recomputation.
The most common reason for recomputing your primary insurance amount is to include earnings of yours that were not used in the first computation or in an earlier recomputation, as described in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. These earnings will result in a revised average monthly wage or revised average indexed monthly earnings.
(b)
New computation method enacted.
If a new method of computing or recomputing primary insurance amounts is enacted into law and you are eligible to have your primary insurance amount recomputed under the new method, we will recompute it under the new method if doing so would increase your primary insurance amount.
(c)
Earnings in the year you reach age 62 or become disabled.
In the initial computation of your primary insurance amount, we do not use your earnings in the year you become entitled to old-
age insurance benefits or become disabled. However, we can use those earnings (called
lag earnings
) in a recomputation of your primary insurance amount. We recompute and begin paying you the higher benefits in the year after the year you become entitled to old-age benefits or become disabled.
(d)
Earnings not reported to us in time to use them in the computation of your primary insurance amount.
Because of the way reports of earnings are required to be submitted to us for years after 1977, the earnings you have in the year before you become entitled to old-age insurance benefits, or become disabled or in the year you die might not be reported to us in time to use them in computing your primary insurance amount. We recompute your primary insurance amount based on the new earnings information and begin paying you (or your survivors) the higher benefits based on the additional earnings, beginning with the month you became entitled or died.
(e)
Earnings after entitlement that are used in a recomputation.
Earnings that you have after you become entitled to benefits will be used in a recomputation of your primary insurance amount.
(f)
Entitlement to a monthly pension.
We will recompute your primary insurance amount if in a month after you became entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits, you become entitled to a pension based on noncovered employment, as explained in § 404.213. Further, we will recompute your primary insurance amount after your death to disregard a monthly pension based on noncovered employment which affected your primary insurance amount.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.282
Effective date of recomputations.
Most recomputations are effective beginning with January of the calendar year after the year in which the additional earnings used in the recomputation were paid. However, a recomputation to include earnings in the year of death (whether or not paid before death) is effective for the month of death. Additionally if you first became eligible for old-age or disability insurance benefits after 1985 and you later also become entitled to a monthly pension based on noncovered employment, we will recompute your primary insurance amount under the rules in § 404.213; this recomputed Social Security benefit amount is effective for the first month you are entitled to the pension. Finally, if your primary insurance amount was affected by your entitlement to a pension, we will recompute the amount to disregard the pension, effective with the month of your death.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.283
Recomputation under method other than that used to find your primary insurance amount.
In some cases, we may recompute your primary insurance amount under a computation method different from the method used in the computation (or earlier recomputation) of your primary insurance amount, if you are eligible for a computation or recomputation under the different method.
§ 404.284
Recomputations for people who reach age 62, or become disabled, or die before age 62 after 1978.
(a)
General.
Years of your earnings after 1978 not used in the computation of your primary insurance amount (or in earlier recomputations) under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method may be substituted for earlier years of your indexed earnings in a recomputation, but only under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method. See § 404.288 for the rules on recomputing when you are entitled to a monthly pension based on noncovered employment.
(b)
Substituting actual dollar amounts in earnings for earlier years of indexed earnings.
When we recompute your primary insurance amount under the average-indexed-monthly earnings method, we use actual dollar amounts,
i.e.
, no indexing, for earnings not included in the initial computation or earlier recomputation. These later earnings are substituted for earlier years of indexed or actual earnings that are lower.
(c)
Benefit formula used in recomputation.
The formula that was used in the first computation of your primary insurance amount is also used in recomputations of your primary insurance amount.
(d)
Your recomputed primary insurance amount.
We recompute your primary insurance amount by applying the benefit formula to your average indexed monthly earnings as revised to include additional earnings. See § 404.281. We then increase the recomputed PIA by the amounts of any automatic cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in primary insurance amounts that have become effective since you reached age 62, or became disabled or died before age 62.
(e)
Minimum increase in primary insurance amounts.
Your primary insurance amount may not be recomputed unless doing so would increase it by at least $1.

# Example 1.
Ms. A, whose primary insurance amount we computed to be $432.40 in June 1979 in §§ 404.210 through 404.212 (based on average indexed monthly earnings of $903), had earnings of $11,000 in 1979 which were not used in the initial computation of her primary insurance amount. We may recompute her primary insurance amount effective for January 1980. In this recomputation, her 1979 earnings may be substituted in their actual dollar amount for the lowest year of her indexed earnings that was used in the initial computation. In Ms. A's case, we substitute the $11,000 for her 1966 indexed earnings of $8,911.36. Her total indexed earnings are now $251,470.05 and her new average indexed monthly earnings are $911. We apply to Ms. A's new average indexed monthly earnings the same benefit formula we used in the initial computation. Doing so produces an amount of $396.00. An automatic cost-of-living increase of 9.9 percent was effective in June 1979. We increase the $396.00 amount by 9.9 percent to find Ms. A's recomputed primary insurance amount of $435.30. Later we increased the primary insurance amount to $497.60 to reflect the 14.3 percent cost-of-living increase beginning June 1980 and to $553.40 to reflect the 11.2 percent cost-of-living increase beginning June 1981.

# Example 2.
Mr. B, whose primary insurance amount we computed to be $429.20 (based on average monthly wages of $502) in June 1978 in §§ 404.220 through 404.222, had earnings of $12,000 in 1978 which were not used in the initial computation of his primary insurance amount. We may recompute his primary insurance amount effective for January 1979. In this recomputation, his 1978 earnings are substituted for the lowest year of earnings used in the initial computation ($2,700 in 1952). Mr. B's total earnings are now $142,000 and his new average monthly wage is $537.
We next find Mr. B's new average monthly wage in column III of the December 1978 benefit table in appendix III. Reading across, we find his recomputed primary insurance amount on the same line in column IV, which is $407.70. We then apply the 9.9 percent, the 14.3 percent and the 11.2 percent automatic cost-of-living increases for June 1979, June 1980, and June 1981, respectively, to compute Mr. B's primary insurance amount of $569.60.
(f)
Guaranteed alternatives.
We may recompute your primary insurance amount by any of the following methods for which you qualify, if doing so would result in a higher amount than the one computed under the average-indexed-monthly-earnings method. Earnings in or after the year you reach age 62 cannot be used.
(1) If you reached age 62 after 1978 and before 1984, we may recompute to include earnings for years before the year you reached age 62 by using the guaranteed alternative (§ 404.231). We will increase the result by any cost-of-living or
ad hoc
increases in the primary insurance amounts that have become effective in and after the year you reached age 62.
(2) We will also recompute under the old-start guarantee (§ 404.242) and the prior-disability guarantee (§ 404.252) if you meet the requirements of either or both these methods.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]
§ 404.285
Recomputations performed automatically.
Each year, we examine the earnings record of every retired, disabled, and deceased worker to see if the worker's primary insurance amount may be recomputed under any of the methods we have described. When a recomputation is called for, we perform it automatically and begin paying the higher benefits based on your recomputed primary insurance amount for the earliest possible month that the recomputation can be effective. You do not have to request this service, although you may request a recomputation at an earlier
date than one would otherwise be performed (see § 404.286). Doing so, however, does not allow your increased primary insurance amount to be effective any sooner than it would be under an automatic recomputation. You may also waive a recomputation if one would disadvantage you or your family (see § 404.287).
§ 404.286
How to request an immediate recomputation.
You may request that your primary insurance amount be recomputed sooner than it would be recomputed automatically. To do so, you must make the request in writing to us and provide acceptable evidence of your earnings not included in the first computation or earlier recomputation of your primary insurance amount. If doing so will increase your primary insurance amount, we will recompute it. However, we cannot begin paying higher benefits on the recomputed primary insurance amount any sooner than we could under an automatic recomputation,
i.e.
, for January of the year following the year in which the earnings were paid or derived.
§ 404.287
Waiver of recomputation.
If you or your family would be disadvantaged in some way by a recomputation of your primary insurance amount, or you and every member of your family do not want your primary insurance amount to be recomputed for any other reason, you may waive (that is, give up your right to) a recomputation, but you must do so in writing. That you waive one recomputation, however, does not mean that you also waive future recomputations for which you might be eligible.
§ 404.288
Recomputing when you are entitled to a monthly pension based on noncovered employment.
(a)
After entitlement to old-age or disability insurance benefits.
If you first become eligible for old-age or disability insurance benefits after 1985 and you later become entitled to a monthly pension based on noncovered employment, we may recompute your primary insurance amount under the rules in § 404.213. When recomputing, we will use the amount of the pension to which you are entitled or deemed entitled in the first month that you are concurrently eligible for both the pension and old-age or disability insurance benefits. We will disregard the rule in § 404.284(e) that the recomputation must increase your primary insurance amount by at least $1.
(b)
Already entitled to benefits and to a pension based on noncovered employment.
If we have already computed or recomputed your primary insurance amount to take into account your monthly pension, we may later recompute for one of the reasons explained in § 404.281. We will recompute your primary insurance amount under the rules in §§ 404.213 and 404.284. Any increase resulting from the recomputation under the rules of § 404.284 will be added to the most recent primary insurance amount which we had computed to take into account your monthly pension.
(c)
After your death.
If one or more survivors are entitled to benefits after your death, we will recompute the primary insurance amount as though it had never been affected by your entitlement to a monthly pension based in whole or in part on noncovered employment.
[52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]

# Recalculations of Primary Insurance Amounts
§ 404.290
Recalculations.
(a) Your primary insurance amount may be “recalculated” in certain instances. When we recalculate your primary amount, we refigure it under the same method we used in the first computation by taking into account—
(1) Earnings (including compensation for railroad service) incorrectly included or excluded in the first computation;
(2) Special deemed earnings credits including credits for military service (see subpart N of this part) and for individuals interned during World War II (see subpart K of this part), not available at the time of the first computation;
(3) Correction of clerical or mathematical errors; or
(4) Other miscellaneous changes in status.
(b) Unlike recomputations, which may only serve to increase your primary insurance amount, recalculations may serve to either increase or reduce it.
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, Apps., Nt.

# Appendixes to Subpart C of Part 404—Note
The following appendices contain data that are needed in computing primary insurance amounts. Appendix I contains
average of the total wages
figures, which we use to
index
a worker's earnings for purposes of computing his or her average indexed monthly earnings. Appendix II contains benefit formulas which we apply to a worker's average indexed monthly earnings to find his or her primary insurance amount. Appendix III contains the benefit table we use to find a worker's primary insurance amount from his or her average monthly wage. We use the figures in appendix IV to find your years of coverage for years after 1950 for purposes of your special minimum primary insurance amount. Appendix V contains the table for computing the special minimum primary insurance amount. Appendix VI is a table of the percentage increases in primary insurance amounts since 1978. Appendix VII is a table of the
old-law
contribution and benefit base that would have been effective under the Social Security Act without enactment of the 1977 amendments.
The figures in the appendices are by law automatically adjusted each year. We are required to announce the changes through timely publication in the
Federal Register.
The only exception to the requirement of publication in the
Federal Register
is the update of benefit amounts shown in appendix III. We update the benefit amounts for payment purposes but are not required by law to publish this extensive table in the
Federal Register.
We have not updated the table in appendix III, but the introductory paragraphs at appendix III explain how you can compute the current benefit amount.
When we publish the figures in the
Federal Register,
we do not change every one of these figures. Instead, we provide new ones for each year that passes. We continue to use the old ones for various computation purposes, as the regulations show. Most of the new figures for these appendices are required by law to be published by November 1 of each year. Notice of automatic cost-of-living increases in primary insurance amounts is required to be published within 45 days of the end of the applicable measuring period for the increase (see §§ 404.274 and 404.276). In effect, publication is required within 45 days of the end of the third calendar quarter of any year in which there is to be an automatic cost-of-living increase.
We begin to use the new data in computing primary insurance amounts as soon as required by law, even before we periodically update these appendices. If the data you need to find your primary insurance amount have not yet been included in the appendices, you may find the figures in the
Federal Register
on or about November 1.
[52 FR 8247, Mar. 17, 1987]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 404—Average of the Total Wages for Years After 1950
Explanation:
We use these figures to index your social security earnings (as described in § 404.211) for purposes of computing your average indexed monthly earnings.
Calendar year
Average of the total wages
1951
$2,799.16
1952
2,973.32
1953
3,139.44
1954
3,155.64
1955
3,301.44
1956
3,532.36
1957
3,641.72
1958
3,673.80
1959
3,855.80
1960
4,007.12
1961
4,086.76
1962
4,291.40
1963
4,396.64
1964
4,576.32
1965
4,658.72
1966
4,938.36
1967
5,213.44
1968
5,571.76
1969
5,893.76
1970
6,186.24
1971
6,497.08
1972
7,133.80
1973
7,580.16
1974
8,030.76
1975
8,630.92
1976
9,226.48
1977
9,779.44
1978
10,556.03
1979
11,479.46
1980
12,513.46
1981
13,773.10
1982
14,531.34
1983
15,239.24
1984
16,135.07
1985
16,822.51
1986
17,321.82
1987
18,426.51
1988
19,334.04
1989
20,099.55
1990
21,027.98
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 8247, Mar. 17, 1987; 57 FR 44096, Sept. 24, 1992]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. II

# Appendix II to Subpart C of Part 404—Benefit Formulas Used With Average Indexed Monthly Earnings
As explained in § 404.212, we use one of the formulas below to compute your primary insurance amount from your average indexed monthly earnings (AIME). To select the appropriate formula, we find in the left-hand column the year after 1978 in which you reach age 62, or become disabled, or die before age 62. The benefit formula to be used in computing your primary insurance amount is on the same line in the right-hand columns. For example, if you reach age 62 or become disabled or die before age 62 in 1979, then we compute 90 percent of the first $180 of AIME, 32 percent of the next $905 of AIME, and 15 percent of AIME over $1,085. After we figure your amount for each step in the formula, we add the amounts. If the total is not already a multiple of $0.10, we round the total as follows:
(1) For computations using the benefit formulas in effect for 1979 through 1982, we round the total upward to the nearest $0.10, and
(2) For computations using the benefit formulas in effect for 1983 and later, we round the total downward to the nearest $0.10.
Benefit Formulas
Year you reach age 62
1
90 percent of the first—
plus 32 percent of the next—
plus 15 percent of AIME over—
1979
$180
$905
$1,085
1980
194
977
1,171
1981
211
1,063
1,274
1982
230
1,158
1,388
1983
254
1,274
1,528
1984
267
1,345
1,612
1985
280
1,411
1,691
1986
297
1,493
1,790
1987
310
1,556
1,866
1988
319
1,603
1,922
1989
339
1,705
2,044
1990
356
1,789
2,145
1991
370
1,860
2,230
1992
387
1,946
2,333
1
Or become disabled or die before age 62.
[57 FR 44096, Sept. 24, 1992; 57 FR 45878, Oct. 5, 1992]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. III

# Appendix III to Subpart C of Part 404—Benefit Table
This benefit table shows primary insurance amounts and maximum family benefits in effect in December 1978 based on cost-of-living increases which became effective for June 1978. (See § 404.403 for information on maximum family benefits.) You will also be able to find primary insurance amounts for an individual whose entitlement began in the period June 1977 through May 1978.
The benefit table in effect in December 1978 had a minimum primary insurance amount of $121.80. As explained in § 404.222(b), certain workers eligible, or who died without having been eligible, before 1982 had their benefit computed from this table. However, the minimum benefit provision was repealed for other workers by the 1981 amendments to the Act (the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Pub. L. 97-35 as modified by Pub. L. 97-123). As a result, this benefit table includes a downward extension from the former minimum of $121.80 to the lowest primary insurance amount now possible. The extension is calculated as follows. For each single dollar of average monthly wage in the benefit table, the primary insurance amount shown for December 1978 is $121.80 multiplied by the ratio of that average monthly wage to $76. The upper limit of each primary insurance benefit range in column I of the table is $16.20 multiplied by the ratio of the average monthly wage in column III of the table to $76. The maximum family benefit is 150 percent of the corresponding primary insurance amount.
The repeal of the minimum benefit provision is effective with January 1982 for most workers and their families where the worker initially becomes eligible for benefits after 1981 or dies after 1981 without having been eligible before January 1982. For members of a religious order who are required to take a vow of poverty, as explained in 20 CFR 404.1024, and which religious order elected Social Security coverage before December 29, 1981, the repeal is effective with January 1992 based on first eligibility or death in that month or later.
To use this table, you must first compute the primary insurance benefit (column I) or the average monthly wage (column III), then move across the same line to either column II or column IV as appropriate. To determine increases in primary insurance amounts since December 1978 you should see appendix VI. Appendix VI tells you, by year, the percentage of the increases. In applying each cost-of-living increase to primary insurance amounts, we round the increased primary insurance amount to the next lower multiple of $0.10 if not already a multiple of $0.10. (For cost-of-living increases which are effective before June 1982, we round to the next higher multiple of $0.10.)
Extended December 1978 Table of Benefits Effective January 1982
[In dollars]
I. Primary insurance benefit: If an individual's primary insurance benefit (as determined under § 404.241(e)) is—
At least—
But not more than—
II. Primary insurance amount effective June 1977: Or his or her primary insurance amount is—
III. Average monthly wage: Or his or her average monthly wage (as determined under § 404.221) is—
At least—
But not more than—
IV. Primary insurance amount effective January 1982: Then his or her primary insurance amount is—
V. Maximum family benefits: And the maximum amount of benefits payable on the basis of his or her wages and self-employment income is—
1
1.70
2.60
0.42
2
2
3.30
5.00
0.43
.63
3
3
4.90
7.40
.64
.85
4
4
6.50
9.80
.86
1.06
5
5
8.10
12.20
1.07
1.27
6
6
9.70
14.60
1.28
1.49
7
7
11.30
17.00
1.50
1.70
8
8
12.90
19.40
1.71
1.91
9
9
14.50
21.80
1.92
2.13
10
10
16.10
24.20
2.14
2.34
11
11
17.70
26.60
2.35
2.55
12
12
19.30
29.00
2.56
2.77
13
13
20.90
31.40
2.78
2.98
14
14
22.50
33.80
2.99
3.19
15
15
24.10
36.20
3.20
3.41
16
16
25.70
38.60
3.42
3.62
17
17
27.30
41.00
3.63
3.83
18
18
28.90
43.40
3.84
4.05
19
19
30.50
45.80
4.06
4.26
20
20
32.10
48.20
4.27
4.47
21
21
33.70
50.60
4.48
4.68
22
22
35.30
53.00
4.69
4.90
23
23
36.90
55.40
4.91
5.11
24
24
38.50
57.80
5.12
5.32
25
25
40.10
60.20
5.33
5.54
26
26
41.70
62.60
5.55
5.75
27
27
43.30
65.00
5.76
5.96
28
28
44.90
67.40
5.97
6.18
29
29
46.50
69.80
6.19
6.39
30
30
48.10
72.20
6.40
6.60
31
31
49.70
74.60
6.61
6.82
32
32
51.30
77.00
6.83
7.03
33
33
52.90
79.40
7.04
7.24
34
34
54.50
81.80
7.25
7.46
35
35
56.10
84.20
7.47
7.67
36
36
57.70
86.60
7.68
7.88
37
37
59.30
89.00
7.89
8.10
38
38
60.90
91.40
8.11
8.31
39
39
62.60
93.90
8.32
8.52
40
40
64.20
96.30
8.53
8.73
41
41
65.80
98.70
8.74
8.95
42
42
67.40
101.10
8.96
9.16
43
43
69.00
103.50
9.17
9.37
44
44
70.60
105.90
9.38
9.59
45
45
72.20
108.30
9.60
9.80
46
46
73.80
110.70
9.81
10.01
47
47
75.40
113.10
10.02
10.23
48
48
77.00
115.50
10.24
10.44
49
49
78.60
117.90
10.45
10.65
50
50
80.20
120.30
10.66
10.87
51
51
81.80
122.70
10.88
11.08
52
52
83.40
125.10
11.09
11.29
53
53
85.00
127.50
11.30
11.51
54
54
86.60
129.90
11.52
11.72
55
55
88.20
132.30
11.73
11.93
56
56
89.80
134.70
11.94
12.15
57
57
91.40
137.10
12.16
12.36
58
58
93.00
139.50
12.37
12.57
59
59
94.60
141.90
12.58
12.78
60
60
96.20
144.30
12.79
13.00
61
61
97.80
146.70
13.01
13.21
62
62
99.40
149.10
13.22
13.42
63
63
101.00
151.50
13.43
13.64
64
64
102.60
153.90
13.65
13.85
65
65
104.20
156.30
13.86
14.06
66
66
105.80
158.70
14.07
14.28
67
67
107.40
161.10
14.29
14.49
68
68
109.00
163.50
14.50
14.70
69
69
110.60
165.90
14.71
14.92
70
70
112.20
168.30
14.93
15.13
71
71
113.80
170.70
15.14
15.34
72
72
115.40
173.10
15.35
15.56
73
73
117.00
175.50
15.57
15.77
74
74
118.60
177.90
15.78
15.98
75
75
120.20
180.30
15.99
16.20
76
76
121.80
182.70
Table of Benefits in Effect in December 1978
[In dollars]
I. Primary insurance benefit: If an individual's primary insurance benefit (as determined under § 404.241(e)) is—
At least—
But not more than—
II. Primary insurance amount effective June 1977: Or his or her primary insurance amount is—
III. Average monthly wage: Or his or her average monthly wage (as determined under § 404.221) is—
At least—
But not more than—
IV. Primary insurance amount effective June 1978: Then his or her primary insurance amount is—
V. Maximum family benefits: And the maximum amount of benefits payable on the basis of his or her wages and self-employment income is—
16.20
114.30
76
121.80
182.70
16.21
16.84
116.10
77
78
123.70
185.60
16.85
17.60
118.80
79
80
126.60
189.90
17.61
18.40
121.00
81
81
128.90
193.50
18.41
19.24
123.00
82
83
131.20
196.80
19.25
20.00
125.80
84
85
134.00
201.00
20.01
20.64
128.10
86
87
136.50
204.80
20.65
21.28
130.10
88
89
138.60
207.90
21.29
21.88
132.70
90
90
141.40
212.10
21.89
22.28
135.00
91
92
143.80
215.70
22.29
22.68
137.20
93
94
146.20
219.20
22.59
23.08
139.40
95
96
148.50
222.80
23.09
23.44
142.00
97
97
151.30
227.00
23.45
23.76
144.30
98
99
153.70
230.60
23.77
24.20
147.10
100
101
156.70
235.10
24.21
24.60
149.20
102
102
158.90
238.50
24.61
25.00
151.70
103
104
161.60
242.40
25.01
25.48
154.50
105
106
164.60
246.90
25.49
25.92
157.00
107
107
167.30
251.00
25.93
26.40
159.40
108
109
169.80
254.80
26.41
26.94
161.90
110
113
172.50
258.80
26.95
27.46
164.20
114
118
174.90
262.40
27.47
28.00
166.70
119
122
177.60
266.50
28.01
28.68
169.30
123
127
180.40
270.60
28.69
29.25
171.80
128
132
183.00
274.60
29.26
29.68
174.10
133
136
185.50
278.30
29.69
30.36
176.50
137
141
188.00
282.10
30.37
30.92
179.10
142
146
190.80
286.20
30.93
31.36
181.70
147
150
193.60
290.40
31.37
32.00
183.90
151
155
195.90
293.90
32.01
32.60
186.50
156
160
198.70
298.10
32.61
33.20
189.00
161
164
201.30
302.00
33.21
33.88
191.40
165
169
203.90
305.90
33.89
34.50
194.00
170
174
206.70
310.10
34.51
35.00
196.30
175
178
209.10
313.70
35.01
35.80
198.90
179
183
211.90
318.00
35.81
36.40
201.30
184
188
214.40
321.70
36.41
37.08
203.90
189
193
217.20
326.00
37.09
37.60
206.40
194
197
219.90
329.90
37.61
38.20
208.80
198
202
222.40
333.60
38.21
39.12
211.50
203
207
225.30
338.00
39.13
39.68
214.00
208
211
228.00
342.00
39.69
40.33
216.00
212
216
230.10
345.20
40.34
41.12
218.70
217
221
233.00
349.50
41.13
41.76
221.20
222
225
235.60
353.40
41.77
42.44
223.90
226
230
238.50
357.80
42.45
43.20
226.30
231
235
241.10
361.70
43.21
43.76
229.10
236
239
244.00
366.10
43.77
44.44
231.20
240
244
246.30
371.10
44.45
44.88
233.50
245
249
248.70
378.80
44.89
45.60
236.40
250
253
251.80
384.90
238.70
254
258
254.30
392.50
240.80
259
263
256.50
400.00
243.70
264
267
259.60
206.00
246.10
268
272
262.10
413.70
248.70
273
277
264.90
421.20
251.00
278
281
267.40
427.20
253.50
282
286
270.00
434.90
256.20
287
291
272.90
442.60
258.30
292
295
275.10
448.50
261.10
296
300
278.10
456.10
263.50
301
305
280.70
463.80
265.80
306
309
283.10
469.80
268.50
310
314
286.00
477.40
270.70
315
319
288.30
485.10
273.20
320
323
291.00
491.10
275.80
324
328
293.80
498.70
278.10
329
333
296.20
506.20
281.00
334
337
299.30
512.50
283.00
338
342
301.40
519.90
285.60
343
347
304.20
527.50
288.30
348
351
307.10
533.60
290.50
352
356
309.40
541.20
293.30
357
361
312.40
548.80
295.60
362
365
314.90
554.90
297.90
366
370
317.30
562.50
300.60
371
375
320.20
569.90
303.10
376
379
322.90
576.30
305.70
380
384
325.60
583.90
307.90
385
389
328.00
591.30
310.30
390
393
330.50
597.40
313.00
394
398
333.40
605.10
315.40
399
403
336.00
612.70
318.20
404
407
338.90
618.60
320.20
408
412
341.10
626.30
322.50
413
417
343.50
633.80
324.80
418
421
346.00
639.90
327.40
422
426
348.70
647.50
329.60
427
431
351.10
655.10
331.60
432
436
353.20
662.70
334.40
437
440
356.20
665.70
336.50
441
445
358.40
669.70
338.70
446
450
360.80
673.40
341.30
451
454
363.50
676.30
343.50
455
459
365.90
680.10
345.80
460
464
368.30
683.80
347.90
465
468
370.60
687.10
350.70
469
473
373.50
690.80
352.60
474
478
375.60
694.60
354.90
479
482
378.00
697.70
357.40
483
487
380.70
701.60
359.70
488
492
383.10
705.40
361.90
493
496
385.50
708.40
364.50
497
501
388.20
712.10
366.60
502
506
390.50
715.80
368.90
507
510
392.90
719.00
371.10
511
515
395.30
722.80
373.70
516
520
398.00
726.70
375.80
521
524
400.30
729.50
378.10
525
529
402.70
733.40
380.80
530
534
405.60
737.10
382.80
535
538
407.70
740.20
385.10
539
543
410.20
744.10
387.60
544
548
412.80
747.80
389.90
549
553
415.30
751.60
392.10
554
556
417.60
753.90
393.90
557
560
419.60
756.90
396.10
561
563
421.90
759.30
398.20
564
567
424.10
762.30
400.40
568
570
426.50
764.50
402.30
571
574
428.50
767.50
404.40
575
577
430.70
769.90
406.20
578
581
432.70
772.80
408.40
582
584
435.00
775.20
410.20
585
588
436.90
778.20
412.60
589
591
439.50
780.50
414.60
592
595
441.60
783.50
416.70
596
598
443.80
785.60
418.70
599
602
446.00
788.90
420.70
603
605
448.10
791.10
422.80
606
609
450.30
794.00
424.90
610
612
452.60
796.50
426.90
613
616
454.70
799.50
428.90
617
620
456.80
802.50
431.00
621
623
459.10
804.80
433.00
624
627
461.20
807.90
435.10
628
630
463.40
810.70
437.10
631
634
465.60
814.70
439.20
635
637
467.80
818.50
441.40
638
641
470.10
822.40
443.20
642
644
472.10
826.10
445.40
645
648
474.40
830.10
447.40
649
652
476.50
833.70
448.60
653
656
477.80
836.10
449.90
657
660
479.20
838.40
451.50
661
665
480.90
841.50
453.10
666
670
482.60
844.50
454.80
671
675
484.40
847.40
456.40
676
680
486.10
850.50
458.00
681
685
487.80
853.50
459.80
686
690
489.70
856.40
461.20
691
695
491.20
859.60
462.80
696
700
492.90
862.60
464.50
701
705
494.70
865.60
466.10
706
710
496.40
868.60
467.70
711
715
498.20
871.50
469.40
716
720
500.00
874.60
471.00
721
725
501.70
877.60
472.60
726
730
503.40
880.70
474.20
731
735
505.10
883.80
475.90
736
740
506.90
886.70
477.40
741
745
508.50
889.90
478.90
746
750
510.10
892.70
480.40
751
755
511.70
896.40
481.80
756
760
513.20
897.80
483.20
761
765
514.70
900.40
484.50
766
770
516.00
903.00
485.80
771
775
517.40
905.40
487.20
776
780
518.90
907.90
488.60
781
785
520.40
910.40
489.80
786
790
521.70
912.90
491.10
791
795
523.10
915.40
492.50
796
800
524.60
918.00
494.00
801
805
526.20
920.50
495.30
806
810
527.50
923.00
496.70
811
815
529.00
925.60
498.00
816
820
530.40
928.00
499.40
821
825
531.90
930.60
500.70
826
830
533.30
933.10
502.00
831
835
534.70
935.70
503.30
836
840
536.10
938.10
504.70
841
845
537.60
940.80
506.00
846
850
538.90
943.00
507.50
851
855
540.50
945.70
508.80
856
860
541.90
948.10
510.20
861
865
543.40
950.70
511.50
866
870
544.80
953.20
512.90
871
875
546.30
955.70
514.10
876
880
547.60
958.20
515.50
881
885
549.10
960.80
516.80
886
890
550.40
963.20
518.20
891
895
551.90
966.00
519.60
896
900
553.40
968.30
521.00
901
905
554.90
970.90
522.30
906
910
556.30
973.50
523.70
911
915
557.80
976.00
525.10
916
920
559.30
978.30
526.30
921
925
560.60
961.00
527.60
926
930
561.90
983.40
529.00
931
935
563.40
985.90
530.40
936
940
564.90
988.50
531.70
941
945
566.30
991.00
533.00
946
950
567.70
993.50
534.50
951
955
569.30
996.10
535.90
956
960
570.80
998.60
537.30
961
965
572.30
1,001.00
538.40
966
970
573.40
1,003.60
539.80
971
975
574.90
1,006.20
541.20
976
980
576.40
1,008.50
542.60
981
985
577.90
1,011.10
543.80
986
990
579.20
1,013.60
545.20
991
995
580.70
1,016.20
546.60
996
1,000
582.20
1,018.60
547.80
1,001
1,005
583.50
1,020.70
548.90
1,006
1,010
584.60
1,023.20
550.20
1,011
1,015
586.00
1,025.30
551.50
1,016
1,020
587.40
1,027.80
552.60
1,021
1,025
588.60
1,029.90
553.80
1,026
1,030
589.80
1,032.20
555.10
1,031
1,035
591.20
1,034.50
556.20
1,036
1,040
592.40
1,036.70
557.50
1,041
1,045
593.80
1,039.10
558.80
1,046
1,050
595.20
1,041.30
559.80
1,051
1,055
596.20
1,043.40
561.10
1,056
1,060
597.60
1,045.90
562.40
1,061
1,065
599.00
1,048.00
563.60
1,066
1,070
600.30
1,050.50
564.80
1,071
1,075
601.60
1,052.60
566.00
1,076
1,080
602.80
1,054.90
567.30
1,081
1,085
604.20
1,057.10
568.40
1,086
1,090
605.40
1,059.40
569.70
1,091
1,095
606.80
1,061.70
571.00
1,096
1,100
608.20
1,064.00
572.00
1,101
1,105
609.20
1,066.10
573.30
1,106
1,110
610.60
1.068.50
574.60
1,111
1,115
612.00
1,070.70
575.70
1,116
1,120
613.20
1,073.10
577.00
1,121
1,125
614.60
1,075.30
578.20
1,126
1,130
615.80
1,077.60
579.40
1,131
1,135
617.10
1,079.70
580.60
1,136
1,140
618.40
1,082.20
581.90
1,141
1,145
619.80
1,084.40
583.10
1,146
1,150
621.10
1,086.70
584.20
1,151
1,555
622.20
1,088.80
585.50
1,156
1,160
623.60
1,091.10
586.70
1,161
1,165
624.90
1,093.40
587.90
1,166
1,170
626.20
1,095.80
589.20
1,171
1,175
627.50
1,098.00
590.30
1,176
1,180
628.70
1,100.20
591.40
1,181
1,185
629.90
1,102.20
592.60
1,186
1,190
631.20
1,104.30
593.70
1,191
1,195
632.30
1,106.50
594.80
1,196
1,200
633.50
1,108.60
595.90
1,201
1,205
634.70
1,110.60
597.10
1,206
1,210
636.00
1,112.90
598.20
1,211
1,215
637.10
1,114.90
599.30
1,216
1,220
638.30
1,117.00
600.40
1,221
1,225
639.50
1,119.00
601.60
1,226
1,230
640.80
1,121.20
602.70
1,231
1,235
641.90
1,123.30
603.80
1,236
1,240
643.10
1,125.40
605.00
1,241
1,245
644.40
1,127.50
606.10
1,246
1,250
645.50
1,129.60
607.20
1,251
1,255
646.70
1,131.60
608.30
1,256
1,260
647.90
1,133.80
609.50
1,261
1,265
649.20
1,135.90
610.60
1,266
1,270
650.30
1,138.00
611.70
1,271
1,275
651.50
1,140.00
612.80
1,276
1,280
652.70
1,142.20
613.80
1,281
1,285
653.70
1,144.10
614.80
1,286
1,290
654.90
1,146.10
616.00
1,291
1,295
656.10
1,148.00
617.00
1,296
1,300
657.20
1,150.00
618.10
1,301
1,305
658.30
1,152.00
619.10
1,306
1,310
659.40
1,154.00
620.20
1,311
1,315
660.60
1,155.90
621.30
1,316
1,320
661.70
1,157.90
622.30
1,321
1,325
662.80
1,159.80
623.40
1,326
1,330
664.00
1,161.90
624.40
1,331
1,335
665.00
1,163.80
625.50
1,336
1,340
666.20
1,165.80
626.60
1,341
1,345
667.40
1,167.70
627.60
1,346
1,350
668.40
1,169.70
628.70
1,351
1,355
669.60
1,171.70
629.70
1,356
1,360
670.70
1,173.70
630.80
1,361
1,365
671.90
1,175.60
631.80
1,366
1,370
672.90
1,177.70
632.90
1,371
1,375
674.10
1,179.60
633.90
1,376
1,380
675.20
1,181.60
634.90
1,381
1,385
676.20
1,183.40
635.90
1,386
1,390
677.30
1,185.30
636.90
1,391
1,395
678.30
1,187.10
637.90
1,396
1,400
679.40
1,189.00
638.90
1,401
1,405
680.50
1,190.80
639.90
1,406
1,410
681.50
1,192.70
640.90
1,411
1,415
682.60
1,194.60
641.90
1,416
1,420
683.70
1,196.50
642.90
1,421
1,425
685.70
1,198.30
643.90
1,426
1,430
684.80
1,200.20
644.90
1,431
1,435
686.90
1,202.00
645.90
1,436
1,440
687.90
1,203.90
646.90
1,441
1,445
689.00
1,205.70
647.90
1,446
1,450
690.10
1,207.70
648.90
1,451
1,455
691.10
1,209.50
649.90
1,456
1,460
692.20
1,211.40
650.90
1,461
1,465
693.30
1,213.20
651.90
1,466
1,470
694.30
1,215.10
652.90
1,471
1,475
695.40
1,216.90
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982; 47 FR 35479, Aug. 16, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 46143, Oct. 11, 1983; 48 FR 50076, Oct. 31, 1983]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. IV

# Appendix IV to Subpart C of Part 404—Earnings Needed for a Year of Coverage After 1950
Minimum Social Security Earnings to Qualify for a Year of Coverage After 1950 for Purposes of the—
Year
Special minimum primary insurance amount
Benefit computations described in section 404.213(d)
2
1951-1954
$900
$900
1955-1958
1,050
1,050
1959-1965
1,200
1,200
1966-1967
1,650
1,650
1968-1971
1,950
1,950
1972
2,250
2,250
1973
2,700
2,700
1974
3,300
3,300
1975
3,525
3,525
1976
3,825
3,825
1977
4,125
4,125
1978
4,425
4,425
1979
4,725
4,725
1980
5,100
5,100
1981
5,550
5,550
1982
6,075
6,075
1983
6,675
6,675
1984
7,050
7,050
1985
7,425
7,425
1986
7,875
7,875
1987
8,175
8,175
1988
8,400
8,400
1989
8,925
8,925
1990
9,525
9,525
1991
5,940
9,900
1992
6,210
10,350
2
Applies only to certain individuals with pensions from noncovered employment.

# Note:
For 1951-78, the amounts shown are 25 percent of the contribution and benefit base (the contribution and benefit base is the same as the annual wage limitation as shown in § 404.1047) in effect. For years after 1978, however, the amounts are 25 percent of what the contribution and benefit base would have been if the 1977 Social Security Amendments had not been enacted, except, for special minimum benefit purposes, the applicable percentage is 15 percent for years after 1990.
[57 FR 44096, Sept. 24, 1992]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. V

# Appendix V to Subpart C of Part 404—Computing the Special Minimum Primary Insurance Amount and Related Maximum Family Benefits
These tables are based on section 215(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Social Security Act, as amended. They include the percent cost-of-living increase shown in appendix VI for each effective date.
June 1979
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$12.70
$19.10
12
25.30
38.00
13
38.00
57.00
14
50.60
75.90
15
63.20
94.90
16
75.90
113.90
17
88.50
132.80
18
101.20
151.80
19
113.80
170.70
20
126.40
189.60
21
139.10
208.70
22
151.70
227.60
23
164.40
246.60
24
177.00
265.50
25
189.60
284.50
26
202.30
303.50
27
214.90
322.40
28
227.50
341.30
29
240.20
360.30
30
252.80
379.20
June 1980
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$14.60
$21.90
12
29.00
43.50
13
43.50
65.30
14
57.90
86.90
15
72.30
108.50
16
86.80
130.20
17
101.20
151.80
18
115.70
173.60
19
130.10
195.20
20
144.50
216.80
21
159.00
238.60
22
173.40
260.20
23
188.00
282.00
24
202.40
303.60
25
216.80
325.20
26
231.30
347.00
27
245.70
368.60
28
260.10
390.20
29
274.60
411.90
30
289.00
433.50
June 1981
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefits
11
$16.30
$24.50
12
32.30
48.50
13
48.40
72.70
14
64.40
96.70
15
80.40
120.70
16
96.60
144.90
17
112.60
168.90
18
128.70
193.10
19
144.70
217.10
20
160.70
241.10
21
176.90
265.40
22
192.90
289.40
23
209.10
313.70
24
225.10
337.70
25
241.10
361.70
26
257.30
386.00
27
273.30
410.00
28
289.30
434.00
29
305.40
458.10
30
321.40
482.10
June 1982
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$17.50
$26.30
12
34.60
52.00
13
51.90
78.00
14
69.10
103.80
15
86.30
129.60
16
103.70
155.60
17
120.90
181.30
18
138.20
207.30
19
155.40
233.10
20
172.50
258.90
21
189.90
285.00
22
207.10
310.80
23
224.50
336.90
24
241.70
362.60
25
258.90
388.40
26
276.30
414.50
27
293.50
440.30
28
310.70
466.10
29
327.90
491.90
30
345.10
517.70
December 1983
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$18.10
$27.20
12
35.80
53.80
13
53.70
80.70
14
71.50
107.40
15
89.30
134.10
16
107.30
161.00
17
125.10
187.60
18
143.00
214.50
19
160.80
241.20
20
178.50
267.90
21
196.50
294.90
22
214.30
321.60
23
232.30
348.60
24
250.10
375.20
25
267.90
401.90
26
285.90
429.00
27
303.70
455.70
28
321.50
482.40
29
339.30
509.10
30
357.10
535.80
December 1984
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$18.70
$28.10
12
37.00
55.60
13
55.50
83.50
14
74.00
111.10
15
92.40
138.70
16
111.00
166.60
17
129.40
194.10
18
148.00
222.00
19
166.40
249.60
20
184.70
277.20
21
203.30
305.20
22
221.80
332.80
23
240.40
360.80
24
258.80
388.30
25
277.20
415.90
26
295.90
444.00
27
314.30
471.60
28
332.70
499.20
29
351.10
526.90
30
369.50
554.50
December 1985
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$19.20
$28.90
12
38.10
57.30
13
57.20
86.00
14
76.20
114.50
15
95.20
142.90
16
114.40
171.70
17
133.40
200.10
18
152.50
228.80
19
171.50
257.30
20
190.40
285.70
21
209.60
314.60
22
228.60
343.10
23
247.80
371.90
24
266.80
400.30
25
285.70
428.70
26
305.00
457.70
27
324.00
486.20
28
343.00
514.60
29
361.90
543.20
30
380.90
571.60
December 1986
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$19.40
$29.20
12
38.50
58.00
13
57.90
87.10
14
77.10
115.90
15
96.40
144.70
16
115.80
173.90
17
135.10
202.70
18
154.40
231.70
19
173.70
260.60
20
192.80
289.40
21
212.30
318.60
22
231.50
347.50
23
251.00
376.70
24
270.20
405.50
25
289.40
434.20
26
308.90
463.60
27
328.20
492.50
28
347.40
521.20
29
366.60
550.20
30
385.80
579.00
December 1987
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$20.20
$30.40
12
40.10
60.40
13
60.30
90.70
14
80.30
120.70
15
100.40
150.70
16
120.60
181.20
17
140.70
211.20
18
160.80
241.40
19
180.90
271.50
20
200.80
301.50
21
221.20
331.90
22
241.20
362.00
23
261.50
392.50
24
281.50
422.50
25
301.50
452.40
26
321.80
483.00
27
341.90
513.10
28
361.90
543.00
29
381.90
573.30
30
402.00
603.30
December 1988
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$21.00
$31.60
12
41.70
62.80
13
62.70
94.30
14
83.50
125.50
15
104.40
156.70
16
125.40
188.40
17
146.30
219.60
18
167.20
251.00
19
188.10
282.30
20
208.80
313.50
21
230.00
345.10
22
250.80
376.40
23
271.90
408.20
24
292.70
439.40
25
313.50
470.40
26
334.60
502.30
27
355.50
533.60
28
376.30
564.70
29
397.10
596.20
30
418.00
627.40
December 1989
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$21.90
$33.00
12
43.60
65.70
13
65.60
98.70
14
87.40
131.30
15
109.30
164.00
16
131.20
197.20
17
153.10
229.90
18
175.00
262.70
19
196.90
295.50
20
218.60
328.20
21
240.80
361.30
22
262.50
394.00
23
284.60
427.30
24
306.40
460.00
25
328.20
492.50
26
350.30
525.90
27
372.20
558.60
28
393.90
591.20
29
415.70
624.20
30
437.60
656.80
December 1990
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$23.00
$34.70
12
45.90
69.20
13
69.10
104.00
14
92.10
138.30
15
115.20
172.80
16
138.20
207.80
17
161.30
242.30
18
184.40
276.80
19
207.50
311.40
20
230.40
345.90
21
253.80
380.80
22
276.60
415.20
23
299.90
450.30
24
322.90
484.80
25
345.90
519.00
26
369.20
554.20
27
392.20
588.70
28
415.10
623.10
29
438.10
657.90
30
461.20
692.20
December 1991
I. Years of coverage
II. Primary insurance amount
III. Maximum family benefit
11
$23.80
$35.90
12
47.50
71.70
13
71.60
107.80
14
95.50
143.40
15
119.40
179.10
16
143.30
215.40
17
167.20
251.20
18
191.20
287.00
19
215.10
322.90
20
238.90
358.60
21
263.10
394.80
22
286.80
430.50
23
310.90
466.90
24
334.80
502.70
25
358.60
538.20
26
382.80
574.70
27
406.70
610.40
28
430.40
646.10
29
454.30
682.20
30
478.20
717.80
Note:
The amounts shown in the above table for years of coverage less than 19 are not payable for June 1981 through December 1981 because the corresponding values shown in column II are less than the $135.70 minimum primary insurance amount payable for that period. For months after December 1981, a special minimum primary insurance amount of $128.70 will be payable.
[47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 8248, Mar. 17, 1987; 57 FR 44097, Sept. 24, 1992; 57 FR 45878, Oct. 5, 1992]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. VI

# Appendix VI to Subpart C of Part 404—Percentage of Automatic Increases in Primary Insurance Amounts Since 1978
Effective date
Percentage increase
06/79
9.9
06/80
14.3
06/81
11.2
06/82
7.4
12/83
3.5
12/84
3.5
12/85
3.1
12/86
1.3
12/87
4.2
12/88
4.0
12/89
4.7
12/90
5.4
12/91
3.7
[57 FR 44097, Sept. 24, 1992]
Pt. 404, Subpt. C, App. VII

# Appendix VII to Subpart C of Part 404—“Old-Law” Contribution and Benefit Base
Explanation:
We use these figures to determine the earnings needed for a year of coverage for years after 1978 (see § 404.261 and appendix IV). This is the contribution and benefit base that would have been effective under the Social Security Act without the enactment of the 1977 amendments.
Year
Amount
1979
$18,900
1980
20,400
1981
22,200
1982
24,300
1983
26,700
1984
28,200
1985
29,700
1986
31,500
1987
32,700
1988
33,600
1989
35,700
1990
38,100
1991
39,600
1992
41,400
[52 FR 8248, Mar. 17, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 44097, Sept. 24, 1992; 57 FR 45878, Oct. 5, 1992]

# Subpart D—Old-Age, Disability, Dependents' and Survivors' Insurance Benefits; Period of Disability

# Authority:
Secs. 202, 203(a) and (b), 205(a), 216, 223, 225, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402, 403(a) and (b), 405(a), 416, 423, 425, and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 404.301
Introduction.
This subpart sets out what requirements you must meet to qualify for social security benefits, how your benefit amounts are figured, when your right to benefits begins and ends, and how family relationships are determined. These benefits are provided by title II of the Social Security Act. They include—
(a)
For workers,
old-age and disability benefits and benefit protection during periods of disability;
(b)
For a worker's dependents,
benefits for a worker's wife, divorced wife, husband, divorced husband, and child; and
(c)
For a worker's survivors,
benefits for a worker's widow, widower, divorced wife, child, and parent, and a lump-sum death payment.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.302
Other regulations related to this subpart.
This subpart is related to several others. Subpart H sets out what evidence you need to prove you qualify for benefits. Subpart P describes what is needed to prove you are disabled. Subpart E describes when your benefits may be reduced or stopped for a time. Subpart G describes the need for and the effect of an application for benefits. Part 410 describes when you may qualify for black lung benefits. Part 416 describes when you may qualify for supplemental security income. Also 42 CFR part 405 describes when you may qualify for hospital and medical insurance if you are aged, disabled, or have chronic kidney disease.
§ 404.303
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Apply
means to sign a form or statement that the Social Security Administration accepts as an application for benefits under the rules set out in subpart G.
Eligible
means that a person would meet all the requirements for entitlement to benefits for a period of time but has not yet applied.
Entitled
means that a person has applied and has proven his or her right to benefits for a period of time.
Insured person
or
the insured
means someone who has enough earnings under social security to permit payment of benefits on his or her earnings record. The requirements for becoming insured are described in subpart B.
Permanent home
means the true and fixed home (legal domicile) of a person. It is the place to which a person intends to return whenever he or she is absent.
Primary insurance amount
means an amount that is determined from the average monthly earnings creditable to the insured person. This term and the manner in which it is computed are explained in subpart C.
We
or
Us
means the Social Security Administration.
You
means the person who has applied for benefits or the person for whom someone else has applied.
§ 404.304
What are the general rules on benefit amounts?
This subpart describes how we determine the highest monthly benefit amount you ordinarily could qualify for under each type of benefit. However, the highest monthly benefit amount you could qualify for may not be the amount you will be paid. In a
particular month, your benefit amount may be reduced or not paid at all. Under some circumstances, your benefit amount may be increased. The most common reasons for a change in your benefit amount are listed below.
(a)
Age.
Sections 404.410 through 404.413 explain how your old-age, wife's or husband's, or widow's or widower's benefits may be reduced if you choose to receive them before you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409).
(b)
Earnings.
Sections 404.415 through 404.418 explain how deductions will be made from your benefits if your earnings or the insured person's earnings go over certain limits.
(c)
Overpayments and underpayments.
Your benefits may be increased or decreased to make up for any previous overpayment or underpayment made on the insured person's record. For more information about this, see subpart F of this part.
(d)
Family maximum.
Sections 404.403 through 404.406 explain that there is a maximum amount payable on each insured person's earnings record. If you are entitled to benefits as the insured's dependent or survivor, your benefits may be reduced to keep total benefits payable to the insured's family within these limits.
(e)
Government pension offset.
If you are entitled to wife's, husband's, widow's, widower's, mother's, or father's benefits and receive a Government pension for work that was not covered under Social Security, your monthly benefits may be reduced because of that pension. For more information about this, see § 404.408a, which covers reductions for Government pensions.
(f)
Rounding.
After all other deductions or reductions, we reduce any monthly benefit that is not a multiple of $1 to the next lower multiple of $1.
[68 FR 4702, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.305
When you may not be entitled to benefits.
In addition to the situations described in § 404.304 when you may not receive a benefit payment, there are special circumstances when you may not be entitled to benefits. These circumstances are—
(a)
Waiver of benefits.
If you have waived benefits and been granted a tax exemption on religious grounds as described in §§ 404.1039 and 404.1075, no one may become entitled to any benefits or payments on your earnings record and you may not be entitled to benefits on anyone else's earnings record; and
(b)
Person's death caused by an intentional act.
You may not become entitled to or continue to receive any survivor's benefits or payments on the earnings record of any person, or receive any underpayment due a person, if you were convicted of a felony or an act in the nature of a felony of intentionally causing that person's death. If you were subject to the juvenile justice system, you may not become entitled to or continue to receive survivor's benefits or payments on the earnings record of any person, or receive any underpayment due a person, if you were found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have intentionally caused that person's death by committing an act which, if committed by an adult, would have been considered a felony or an act in the nature of a felony.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 42098, Sept. 24, 1982; 52 FR 19136, May 21, 1987, 52 FR 21410, June 5, 1987; 58 FR 64888, Dec. 10, 1993]

# Old-Age and Disability Benefits
§ 404.310
When am I entitled to old-age benefits?
We will find you entitled to old-age benefits if you meet the following three conditions:
(a) You are at least 62 years old;
(b) You have enough social security earnings to be fully insured as defined in §§ 404.110 through 404.115; and
(c) You apply; or you are entitled to disability benefits up to the month you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409). When you attain full retirement age, your disability benefits automatically become old-age benefits.
[68 FR 4702, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.311
When does my entitlement to old-age benefits begin and end?
(a) We will find you entitled to old-age benefits beginning with:
(1) If you have attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409), the
first month covered by your application
in
which you meet all requirements for entitlement; or
(2) If you have attained age 62, but have not attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409), the first month covered by your application
throughout
which you meet all requirements for entitlement.
(b) We will find your entitlement to old-age benefits ends with the month before the month you die.
[68 FR 4702, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.312
How is my old-age benefit amount calculated?
(a) If your old-age benefits begin in the month you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409), your monthly benefit is equal to the primary insurance amount (as explained in subpart C of this part).
(b) If your old-age benefits begin after the month you attain full retirement age, your monthly benefit is your primary insurance amount plus an increase for retiring after full retirement age. See § 404.313 for a description of these increases.
(c) If your old-age benefits begin before the month you attain full retirement age, your monthly benefit amount is the primary insurance amount minus a reduction for each month you are entitled before you attain full retirement age. These reductions are described in §§ 404.410 through 404.413.
[68 FR 4702, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.313
What are delayed retirement credits and how do they increase my old-age benefit amount?
(a)
What are delayed retirement credits and how do I earn them?
Delayed retirement credits (DRCs) are credits we use to increase the amount of your old-age benefit amount. You may earn a credit for each month during the period beginning with the month you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) and ending with the month you attain age 70 (72 before 1984). You earn a credit for each month for which you are fully insured and eligible but do not receive an old-age benefit either because you do not apply for benefits or because you elect to voluntarily suspend your benefits to earn DRCs. Even if you were entitled to old-age benefits before full retirement age you may still earn DRCs for months during the period from full retirement age to age 70, if you voluntarily elect to suspend those benefits. If we have determined that you are entitled to benefits, you may voluntarily suspend benefits for any month beginning with the month after the month in which you voluntarily request that we suspend your benefits. If you apply for benefits, and we have not made a determination that you are entitled to benefits, you may voluntarily have your benefits suspended for any month for which you have not received a payment.
(b)
How is the amount of the increase because of delayed retirement credits computed?
—(1)
Computation of the increase amount.
The amount of the increase depends on your date of birth and the number of credits you earn. We total the number of credits (which need not be consecutive) and multiply that number by the applicable percentage from paragraph (b)(2) of this section. We then multiply the result by your benefit amount and round the answer to the next lower multiple of 10 cents (if the answer is not already a multiple of 10 cents). We add the result to your benefit amount. If a supplementary medical insurance premium is involved it is then deducted. The result is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1 (if the answer is not already a multiple of $1).
(2)
Credit percentages.
The applicable credit amount for each month of delayed retirement can be found in the table below.
If your date of birth is:
The credit for each month you delay
retirement is:
Before 1/2/1917
1/12
of 1%
1/2/1917—1/1/1925
1/4
of 1%
1/2/1925—1/1/1927
7/24
of 1%
1/2/1927—1/1/1929
1/3
of 1%
1/2/1929—1/1/1931
3/8
of 1%
1/2/1931—1/1/1933
5/12
of 1%
1/2/1933—1/1/1935
11/24
of 1%
1/2/1935—1/1/1937
1/2
of 1%
1/2/1937—1/1/1939
13/24
of 1%
1/2/1939—1/1/1941
7/12
of 1%
1/2/1941—1/1/1943
5/8
of 1%
After 1/1/1943
2/3
of 1%

# Example:
Alan was qualified for old-age benefits when he reached age 65 on January 15, 1998. He decided not to apply for old-age
benefits immediately because he was still working. When he became age 66 in January 1999, he stopped working and applied for benefits beginning with that month. Based on his earnings, his primary insurance amount was $782.60. However, because he did not receive benefits immediately upon attainment of full retirement age (65), he is due an increase based on his delayed retirement credits. He earned 12 credits, one for each month from January 1998 through December 1998. Based on his date of birth of 1/15/1933 he is entitled to a credit of
11/24
of one percent for each month of delayed retirement. 12 credits multiplied by
11/24
of one percent equals a credit of 5.5 percent. 5.5% of the primary insurance amount of $782.60 is $43.04 which is rounded to $43.00, the next lower multiple of 10 cents. $43.00 is added to the primary insurance amount, $782.60. The result, $825.60 is the monthly benefit amount. If a supplementary medical insurance premium is involved it is then deducted. The result is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1 (if the answer is not already a multiple of $1).
(c)
When is the increase because of delayed retirement credits effective?
—(1)
Credits earned after entitlement and before the year of attainment of age 70.
If you are entitled to benefits, we examine our records after the end of each calendar year to determine whether you have earned delayed retirement credits during the previous year for months when you were at or over full retirement age and you were fully insured and eligible for benefits but did not receive them. Any increase in your benefit amount is effective beginning with January of the year after the year the credits were earned.
(2)
Credits earned after entitlement in the year of attainment of age 70.
If you are entitled to benefits in the month you attain age 70, we examine our records to determine if you earned any additional delayed retirement credits during the calendar year in which you attained age 70. Any increase in your benefit amount is effective beginning with the month you attained age 70.
(3)
Credits earned prior to entitlement.
If you are full retirement age or older and eligible for old-age benefits but do not apply for benefits, your delayed retirement credits for months from the month of attainment of full retirement age through the end of the year prior to the year of filing will be included in the computation of your initial benefit amount. Credits earned in the year you attain age 70 will be added in the month you attain age 70.
(d)
How do delayed retirement credits affect the special minimum primary insurance amount?
We do not add delayed retirement credits to your old-age benefit if your benefit is based on the special minimum primary insurance amount described in § 404.260. We add the delayed retirement credits only to your old-age benefit based on your regular primary insurance amount,
i.e.
as computed under one of the other provisions of subpart C of this part. If your benefit based on the regular primary insurance amount plus your delayed retirement credits is higher than the benefit based on your special minimum primary insurance amount, we will pay the higher amount to you. However, if the special minimum primary insurance amount is higher than the regular primary insurance amount without the delayed retirement credits, we will use the special minimum primary insurance amount to determine the family maximum and the benefits of others entitled on your earnings record.
(e)
What is the effect of my delayed retirement credits on the benefit amount of others entitled on my earnings record?
—(1)
Surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse.
If you earn delayed retirement credits during your lifetime, we will compute benefits for your surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse based on your regular primary insurance amount plus the amount of those delayed retirement credits. All delayed retirement credits, including any earned during the year of death, can be used in computing the benefit amount for your surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse beginning with the month of your death. We compute delayed retirement credits up to but not including the month of death.
(2)
Other family member.
We do not use your delayed retirement credits to increase the benefits of other family members entitled on your earnings record.
(3)
Family maximum.
We add delayed retirement credits to your benefit after we compute the family maximum. However, we add delayed retirement credits to your surviving spouse's or
surviving divorced spouse's benefit before we reduce for the family maximum.
[68 FR 4703, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 75 FR 76259, Dec. 8, 2010]
§ 404.315
Who is entitled to disability benefits?
(a)
General.
You are entitled to disability benefits while disabled before attaining full retirement age as defined in § 404.409 if—
(1) You have enough social security earnings to be
insured for disability,
as described in § 404.130;
(2) You apply;
(3) You have a disability, as defined in § 404.1505, or you are not disabled, but you had a disability that ended within the 12-month period before the month you applied; and
(4) You have been disabled for 5 full consecutive months or no waiting period is required. The 5-month waiting period begins with a month in which you were both insured for disability and disabled. Your waiting period can begin no earlier than the 17th month before the month you apply—no matter how long you were disabled before then. No waiting period is required if:
(i) You were previously entitled to disability benefits or to a period of disability under § 404.320 any time within 5 years of the month you again became disabled; or
(ii) You have been medically determined to have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and we approved your application for disability insurance benefits on or after July 23, 2020.
(b)
Prohibition against reentitlement to disability benefits if drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
You cannot be entitled to a period of disability payments if drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability and your earlier entitlement to disability benefits on the same basis terminated after you received benefits for 36 months during which treatment was available.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21930, May 16, 1983; 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986; 51 FR 16166, May 1, 1986; 53 FR 43681, Oct. 28, 1988; 57 FR 30119, July 8, 1992; 60 FR 8145, Feb. 10, 1995; 68 FR 4704, Jan. 30, 2003; 86 FR 48021, Aug. 27, 2021]
§ 404.316
When entitlement to disability benefits begins and ends.
(a) You are entitled to disability benefits beginning with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all the other requirements for entitlement. If a waiting period is required, your benefits cannot begin earlier than the first month following that period.
(b) Your entitlement to disability benefits ends with the earliest of these months:
(1) The month before the month of your death;
(2) The month before the month you attain full retirement age as defined in § 404.409 (at full retirement age your disability benefits will be automatically changed to old-age benefits);
(3) The second month after the month in which your disability ends as provided in § 404.1594(b)(1), unless continued subject to paragraph (c); or (4) subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, the month before your termination month (§ 404.325).
(c)(1) Your benefits, and those of your dependents, may be continued after your impairment is no longer disabling if—
(i) You are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services, as described in § 404.327(a) and (b);
(ii) You began participating in the program before the date your disability ended; and
(iii) We have determined under § 404.328 that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(2) We generally will stop your benefits with the earliest of these months—
(i) The month in which you complete the program; or
(ii) The month in which you stop participating in the program for any reason (see § 404.327(b) for what we mean by “participating” in the program); or
(iii) The month in which we determine under § 404.328 that your continuing participation in the program will no longer increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
Exception to paragraph (c):
In no case will we stop your benefits with a month earlier than the second month after the month your disability ends, provided that you meet all other requirements for entitlement to and payment of benefits through such month.
(d) If, after November 1980, you have a disabling impairment (§ 404.1511), you will be paid benefits for all months in which you do not do substantial gainful activity during the reentitlement period (§ 404.1592a) following the end of your trial work period (§ 404.1592). If you are unable to do substantial gainful activity in the first month following the reentitlement period, we will pay you benefits until you are able to do substantial gainful activity. (Earnings during your trial work period do not affect the payment of your benefit.) You will also be paid benefits for the first month after the trial work period in which you do substantial gainful activity and the two succeeding months, whether or not you do substantial gainful activity during those succeeding months. After those three months, you cannot be paid benefits for any months in which you do substantial gainful activity.
(e) If drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 404.1535, you may receive disability benefits on that basis for no more than 36 months regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have. Not included in these 36 months are months in which treatment for your drug addiction or alcoholism is not available, months before March 1995, and months for which your benefit payments were suspended for any reason. Benefits to your dependents may continue after the 36 months of benefits if, but for the operation of this paragraph, you would otherwise be entitled to benefits based on disability. The 36-month limit is no longer effective for benefits for months beginning after September 2004.
(f) If drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 404.1535 and your disability benefits are suspended for 12 consecutive months because of your failure to comply with treatment requirements, your disability benefits will be terminated effective the first month after such 12-month period. Benefits to your dependents may continue after the 12-month period if, but for the operation of this paragraph, you would otherwise be entitled to benefits based on disability.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 31542, July 21, 1982; 47 FR 52693, Nov. 23, 1982; 49 FR 22270, May 29, 1984; 51 FR 17617, May 14, 1986; 60 FR 8145, Feb. 10, 1995; 68 FR 4704, Jan. 30, 2003; 70 FR 36505, June 24, 2005]
§ 404.317
How is the amount of my disability benefit calculated?
Your monthly benefit is equal to the primary insurance amount (PIA). This amount is computed under the rules in subpart C of this part as if it was an old-age benefit, and as if you were 62 years of age at the beginning of the 5-month waiting period mentioned in § 404.315(a). If the 5-month waiting period is not required because of your previous entitlement, your PIA is figured as if you were 62 years old when you become entitled to benefits this time. If the 5-month waiting period is not required because you have been medically determined to have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (see § 404.315), your PIA is figured as if you were 62 years old when you become entitled to benefits. Your monthly benefit amount may be reduced if you receive workers' compensation or public disability payments before you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) (see § 404.408). Your benefits may also be reduced if you were entitled to other retirement-age benefits before you attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409).
[68 FR 4704, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 81 FR 10033, Apr. 4, 2016; 86 FR 48021, Aug. 27, 2021]
§ 404.320
Who is entitled to a period of disability.
(a)
General.
A period of disability is a continuous period of time during which you are disabled. If you become disabled, you may apply to have our records show how long your disability lasts. You may do this even if you do not qualify for disability benefits. If we establish a period of disability for you, the months in that period of time will not be counted in figuring your average earnings. If benefits payable on your earnings record would be denied or reduced because of a period of disability, the period of disability will not be taken into consideration.
(b)
Who is entitled.
You are entitled to a period of disability if you meet all the following conditions:
(1) You have or had a disability as defined in § 404.1505.
(2) You are
insured for disability,
as defined in § 404.130 in the calendar quarter in which you became disabled, or in a later calendar quarter in which you were disabled.
(3) You file an application while disabled, or no later than 12 months after the month in which your period of disability ended. If you were unable to apply within the 12-month period after your period of disability ended because of a physical or mental condition as described in § 404.322, you may apply not more than 36 months after the month your disability ended.
(4) At least 5 consecutive months go by from the month in which your period of disability begins and before the month in which it would end.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21930, May 16, 1983; 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986]
§ 404.321
When a period of disability begins and ends.
(a)
When a period of disability begins.
Your period of disability begins on the day your disability begins if you are insured for disability on that day. If you are not insured for disability on that day, your period of disability will begin on the first day of the first calendar quarter after your disability began in which you become insured for disability. Your period of disability may not begin after you have attained full retirement age as defined in § 404.409.
(b)
When disability ended before December 1, 1980.
Your period of disability ends on the last day of the month before the month in which you become 65 years old or, if earlier, the last day of the second month following the month in which your disability ended.
(c)
When disability ends after November 1980.
Your period of disability ends with the close of whichever of the following is the earliest—
(1) The month before the month in which you attain full retirement age as defined in § 404.409.
(2) The month immediately preceding your termination month (§ 404.325); or
(3) If you perform substantial gainful activity during the reentitlement period described in § 404.1592a, the last month for which you received benefits.
(d)
When drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(1) Your entitlement to receive disability benefit payments ends the month following the month in which, regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have had based on disability where drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535)—
(i) You have received a total of 36 months of disability benefits. Not included in these 36 months are months in which treatment for your drug addiction or alcoholism is not available, months before March 1995, and months for which your benefits were suspended for any reason; or
(ii) Your benefits have been suspended for 12 consecutive months because of your failure to comply with treatment requirements.
(2) For purposes other than payment of your disability benefits, your period of disability continues until the termination month as explained in § 404.325.
[49 FR 22271, May 29, 1984, as amended at 60 FR 8145, Feb. 10, 1995; 65 FR 42782, July 11, 2000; 68 FR 4704, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.322
When you may apply for a period of disability after a delay due to a physical or mental condition.
If because of a physical or mental condition you did not apply for a period of disability within 12 months after your period of disability ended,
you may apply not more than 36 months after the month in which your disability ended. Your failure to apply within the 12-month time period will be considered due to a physical or mental condition if during this time—
(a) Your physical condition limited your activities to such an extent that you could not complete and sign an application; or
(b) You were mentally incompetent.
§ 404.325
The termination month.
If you do not have a disabling impairment, your termination month is the third month following the month in which your impairment is not disabling even if it occurs during the trial work period or the reentitlement period. If you continue to have a disabling impairment and complete 9 months of trial work, your termination month will be the third month following the earliest month you perform substantial gainful activity or are determined able to perform substantial gainful activity; however, in no event will the termination month under these circumstances be earlier than the first month after the end of the reentitlement period described in § 404.1592a.

# Example 1:
You complete your trial work period in December 1999. You then work at the substantial gainful activity level and continue to do so throughout the 36 months following completion of your trial work period and thereafter. Your termination month will be January 2003, which is the first month in which you performed substantial gainful activity after the end of your 36-month reentitlement period. This is because, for individuals who have disabling impairments (see § 404.1511) and who work, the termination month cannot occur before the first month after the end of the 36-month reentitlement period.

# Example 2:
You complete your trial work period in December 1999, but you do not do work showing your ability to do substantial gainful activity during your trial work period or throughout your 36-month reentitlement period. In April 2003, 4 months after your reentitlement period ends, you become employed at work that we determine is substantial gainful activity, considering all of our rules in §§ 404.1574 and 404.1574a. Your termination month will be July 2003; that is, the third month after the earliest month you performed substantial gainful activity.
[65 FR 42782, July 11, 2000]

# Rules Relating to Continuation of Benefits After Your Impairment Is No Longer Disabling

# Source:
70 FR 36505, June 24, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.327
When you are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services.
(a)
What is an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services?
An appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services means—
(1) A program that is carried out under an individual work plan with an employment network under the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program under part 411 of this chapter;
(2) A program that is carried out under an individualized plan for employment with—
(i) A State vocational rehabilitation agency (
i.e.
, a State agency administering or supervising the administration of a State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720-751) under 34 CFR part 361; or
(ii) An organization administering a Vocational Rehabilitation Services Project for American Indians with Disabilities authorized under section 121 of part C of title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 741);
(3) A program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services that is carried out under a similar, individualized written employment plan with—
(i) An agency of the Federal Government (for example, the Department of Veterans Affairs);
(ii) A one-stop delivery system or specialized one-stop center described in section 134(c) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2864(c)); or
(iii) Another provider of services approved by us; providers we may approve include, but are not limited to—
(A) A public or private organization with expertise in the delivery or coordination of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services; or
(B) A public, private or parochial school that provides or coordinates a program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services carried out under an individualized program or plan;
(4) An individualized education program developed under policies and procedures approved by the Secretary of Education for assistance to States for the education of individuals with disabilities under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
); you must be age 18 through age 21 for this provision to apply.
(b)
When are you participating in the program?
(1) You are participating in a program described in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section when you are taking part in the activities and services outlined in your individual work plan, your individualized plan for employment, or your similar individualized written employment plan, as appropriate.
(2) If you are a student age 18 through 21 receiving services under an individualized education program described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you are participating in your program when you are taking part in the activities and services outlined in your program or plan.
(3) You are participating in your program under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section during temporary interruptions in your program. For an interruption to be considered temporary, you must resume taking part in the activities and services outlined in your plan or program, as appropriate, no more than three months after the month the interruption occurred.
§ 404.328
When your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(a) We will determine that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls if your completion of or your continuation in the program will provide you with—
(1) Work experience (see § 404.1565) so that you would more likely be able to do past relevant work (see § 404.1560(b)), despite a possible future reduction in your residual functional capacity (see § 404.1545); or
(2) Education (see § 404.1564) and/or skilled or semi-skilled work experience (see § 404.1568) so that you would more likely be able to adjust to other work that exists in the national economy (see § 404.1560(c)), despite a possible future reduction in your residual functional capacity (see § 404.1545).
(b) If you are a student age 18 through age 21 participating in an individualized education program described in § 404.327(a)(4), we will find that your completion of or continuation in the program will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(c) If you are receiving transition services after having completed an individualized education program as described in paragraph (b) of this section, we will determine that the transition services will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls if they meet the requirements in § 404.328(a).

# Benefits for Spouses and Divorced Spouses
§ 404.330
Who is entitled to wife's or husband's benefits.
You are entitled to benefits as the wife or husband of an insured person who is entitled to old-age or disability benefits if—
(a) You are the insured's wife or husband based upon a relationship described in §§ 404.345 through 404.346 and one of the following conditions is met:
(1) Your relationship to the insured as a wife or husband has lasted at least 1 year. (You will be considered to meet the 1-year duration requirement throughout the month in which the first anniversary of the marriage occurs.)
(2) You and the insured are the natural parents of a child; or
(3) In the month before you married the insured you were entitled to, or if you had applied and been old enough you could have been entitled to, any of
these benefits or payments: Wife's, husband's, widow's, widower's, or parent's benefits; disabled child's benefits; or annuity payments under the Railroad Retirement Act for widows, widowers, parents, or children 18 years old or older;
(b) You apply;
(c) You are age 62 or older throughout a month and you meet all other conditions of entitlement, or you are the insured's wife or husband and have
in your care
(as defined in §§ 404.348 through 404.349), throughout a month in which all other conditions of entitlement are met, a child who is entitled to child's benefits on the insured's earnings record and the child is either under age 16 or disabled; and
(d) You are not entitled to an old-age or disability benefit based upon a primary insurance amount that is equal to or larger than the full wife's or husband's benefit.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979; 44 FR 56691, Oct. 2, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 68932, Oct. 17, 1980; 48 FR 21926, May 16, 1983]
§ 404.331
Who is entitled to wife's or husband's benefits as a divorced spouse.
You are entitled to wife's or husband's benefits as the divorced wife or divorced husband of an insured person who is entitled to old-age or disability benefits if you meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e). You are entitled to these benefits even though the insured person is not yet entitled to benefits, if the insured person is at least age 62 and if you meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (f). The requirements are that—
(a) You are the insured's divorced wife or divorced husband and—
(1) You were validly married to the insured under State law as described in § 404.345 or you were deemed to be validly married as described in § 404.346; and
(2) You were married to the insured for at least 10 years immediately before your divorce became final;
(b) You apply;
(c) You are not married. (For purposes of meeting this requirement, you will be considered not to be married throughout the month in which the divorce occurred);
(d) You are age 62 or older throughout a month in which all other conditions of entitlement are met; and
(e) You are not entitled to an old-age or disability benefit based upon a primary insurance amount that is equal to or larger than the full wife's or husband's benefit.
(f) You have been divorced from the insured person for at least 2 years.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21926, May 16, 1983; 51 FR 11911, Apr. 8, 1986; 58 FR 64891, Dec. 10, 1993]
§ 404.332
When wife's and husband's benefits begin and end.
(a) You are entitled to wife's or husband's benefits beginning with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all the other requirements for entitlement under § 404.330 or § 404.331. However, if you are entitled as a divorced spouse before the insured person becomes entitled, your benefits cannot begin before January 1985 based on an application filed no earlier than that month.
(b) Your entitlement to benefits ends with the month before the month in which one of the following events first occurs:
(1) You become entitled to an old-age or disability benefit based upon a primary insurance amount that is equal to or larger than the full wife's or husband's benefit.
(2) You are the wife or husband and are divorced from the insured person unless you meet the requirements for benefits as a divorced wife or divorced husband as described in § 404.331.
(3) You are the divorced wife or divorced husband and you marry someone, other than the insured who is entitled to old-age benefits, unless that other person is someone entitled to benefits as a wife, husband, widow, widower, father, mother, parent or disabled child. Your benefits will end if you remarry the insured who is not yet entitled to old-age benefits.
(4) If you are under age 62, there is no longer a child of the insured who is under age 16 or disabled and entitled to child's benefits on the insured's earnings record. (See paragraph (c) of this section if you were entitled to wife's or husband's benefits for August 1981 on the basis of having a child in care.) (If
you no longer have in your care a child who is under age 16 or disabled and entitled to child's benefits on the insured's earnings record, your benefits may be subject to deductions as provided in § 404.421.)
(5) The insured person dies or is no longer entitled to old age or disability benefits. Exception: Your benefits will continue if the insured person was entitled to disability benefits based on a finding that drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of his or her disability (as described in § 404.1535), the insured person's benefits ended after 36 months of benefits (see § 404.316(e)) or 12 consecutive months of suspension for noncompliance with treatment (see § 404.316(f)), and but for the operation of these provisions, the insured person would remain entitled to benefits based on disability.
(6) If your benefits are based upon a deemed valid marriage and you have not divorced the insured, you marry someone other than the insured.
(7) You die.
(8) You became entitled as the divorced wife or the divorced husband before the insured person became entitled, but he or she is no longer insured.
(c) If you were entitled to wife's or husband's benefits for August 1981 on the basis of having a child in care, your entitlement will continue until September 1983, until the child reaches 18 (unless disabled) or is otherwise no longer entitled to child's benefits, or until one of the events described in paragraph (b) (1), (2), (3), (5), (6) or (7) of this section occurs, whichever is earliest.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21926, May 16, 1983; 49 FR 24115, June 12, 1984; 51 FR 11911, Apr. 8, 1986; 58 FR 64891, Dec. 10, 1993; 60 FR 8145, Feb. 10, 1995; 64 FR 14608, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 404.333
Wife's and husband's benefit amounts.
Your wife's or husband's monthly benefit is equal to one-half the insured person's primary insurance amount. If you are entitled as a divorced wife or as a divorced husband before the insured person becomes entitled, we will compute the primary insurance amount as if he or she became entitled to old-age benefits in the first month you are entitled as a divorced wife or as a divorced husband. The amount of your monthly benefit may change as explained in § 404.304.
[51 FR 11912, Apr. 8, 1986]
§ 404.335
How do I become entitled to widow's or widower's benefits?
We will find you entitled to benefits as the widow or widower of a person who died fully insured if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section:
(a) You are the insured's widow or widower based upon a relationship described in §§ 404.345 through 404.346, and you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Your relationship to the insured as a wife or husband lasted for at least 9 months immediately before the insured died.
(2) Your relationship to the insured as a wife or husband did not last 9 months before the insured died, but you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) At the time of your marriage the insured was reasonably expected to live for 9 months, and the death of the insured was accidental. The death is accidental if it was caused by an event that the insured did not expect, if it was the result of bodily injuries received from violent and external causes, and if, as a direct result of these injuries, death occurred not later than 3 months after the day on which the bodily injuries were received. An intentional and voluntary suicide will not be considered an accidental death.
(ii) At the time of your marriage the insured was reasonably expected to live for 9 months, and the death of the insured occurred in the line of duty while he or she was serving on active duty as a member of the uniformed services as defined in § 404.1019.
(iii) At the time of your marriage the insured was reasonably expected to live for 9 months, and you had been previously married to the insured for at least 9 months.
(iv) The insured had been married prior to his or her marriage to you and the prior spouse was institutionalized during the marriage to the insured due
to mental incompetence or similar incapacity. During the period of the prior spouse's institutionalization, the insured, as determined based on evidence satisfactory to the Agency, would have divorced the prior spouse and married you, but the insured did not do so because the divorce would have been unlawful, by reason of the institutionalization, under the laws of the State in which the insured was domiciled at the time. Additionally, the prior spouse must have remained institutionalized up to the time of his or her death and the insured must have married you within 60 days after the prior spouse's death.
(3) You and the insured were the natural parents of a child; or you were married to the insured when either of you adopted the other's child or when both of you adopted a child who was then under 18 years old.
(4) In the month before you married the insured, you were entitled to or, if you had applied and had been old enough, could have been entitled to any of these benefits or payments: widow's, widower's, father's (based on the record of a fully insured individual), mother's (based on the record of a fully insured individual), wife's, husband's, parent's, or disabled child's benefits; or annuity payments under the Railroad Retirement Act for widows, widowers, parents, or children age 18 or older.
(b) You apply, except that you need not apply again if you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) You are entitled to wife's or husband's benefits for the month before the month in which the insured dies and you have attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) or you are not entitled to either old-age or disability benefits.
(2) You are entitled to mother's or father's benefits for the month before the month in which you attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409).
(3) You are entitled to wife's or husband's benefits and to either old-age or disability benefits in the month before the month of the insured's death, you are under full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) in the month of death, and you have filed a Certificate of Election in which you elect to receive reduced widow's or widower's benefits.
(4) You applied in 1990 for widow's or widower's benefits based on disability and you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) You were entitled to disability insurance benefits for December 1990, or eligible for supplemental security income or federally administered State supplementary payments, as specified in subparts B and T of part 416 of this chapter, respectively, for January 1991.
(ii) You were found not disabled for any month based on the definition of disability in §§ 404.1577 and 404.1578, as in effect prior to January 1991, but would have been entitled if the standard in § 404.1505(a) had applied. (This exception to the requirement for filing an application is effective only with respect to benefits payable for months after December 1990.)
(c) You are at least 60 years old; or you are at least 50 years old and have a disability as defined in § 404.1505 and you meet all of the conditions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Your disability started not later than 7 years after the insured died or 7 years after you were last entitled to mother's or father's benefits or to widow's or widower's benefits based upon a disability, whichever occurred last.
(2) Your disability continued during a waiting period of 5 full consecutive months, unless months beginning with the first month of eligibility for supplemental security income or federally administered State supplementary payments are counted, as explained in the Exception in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The waiting period may begin no earlier than the 17th month before you applied; the fifth month before the insured died; or if you were previously entitled to mother's, father's, widow's, or widower's benefits, the 5th month before your entitlement to benefits ended. If you were previously entitled to widow's or widower's benefits based upon a disability, no waiting period is required.
(3) Exception: For monthly benefits payable for months after December 1990, if you were or have been eligible for supplemental security income or
federally administered State supplementary payments, as specified in subparts B and T of part 416 of this chapter, respectively, your disability need not have continued through a separate, full 5-month waiting period before you may begin receiving benefits. We will include as months of the 5-month waiting period the months in a period beginning with the first month you received supplemental security income or a federally administered State supplementary payment and continuing through all succeeding months, regardless of whether the months in the period coincide with the months in which your waiting period would have occurred, or whether you continued to be eligible for supplemental security income or a federally administered State supplementary payment after the period began, or whether you met the nondisability requirements for entitlement to widow's or widower's benefits. However, we will not pay you benefits under this provision for any month prior to January 1991.
(4) You have not previously received 36 months of payments based on disability when drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535), regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have had, or your current application for widow's or widower's benefits is not based on a disability where drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(d) You are not entitled to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the insured person's primary insurance amount.
(e) You are unmarried, unless for benefits for months after 1983 you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) You remarried after you became 60 years old.
(2) You are now age 60 or older and you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) You remarried after attaining age 50 but before attaining age 60.
(ii) At the time of the remarriage, you were entitled to widow's or widower's benefits as a disabled widow or widower.
(3) You are now at least age 50, but not yet age 60 and you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) You remarried after attaining age 50.
(ii) You met the disability requirements in paragraph (c) of this section at the time of your remarriage (
i.e.,
your disability began within the specified time and before your remarriage).
[68 FR 4704, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 61365, Oct. 24, 2005]
§ 404.336
How do I become entitled to widow's or widower's benefits as a surviving divorced spouse?
We will find you entitled to widow's or widower's benefits as the surviving divorced wife or the surviving divorced husband of a person who died fully insured if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section:
(a) You are the insured's surviving divorced wife or surviving divorced husband and you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) You were validly married to the insured under State law as described in § 404.345 or are deemed to have been validly married as described in § 404.346.
(2) You were married to the insured for at least 10 years immediately before your divorce became final.
(b) You apply, except that you need not apply again if you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) You are entitled to wife's or husband's benefits for the month before the month in which the insured dies and you have attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) or you are not entitled to old-age or disability benefits.
(2) You are entitled to mother's or father's benefits for the month before the month in which you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409).
(3) You are entitled to wife's or husband's benefits and to either old-age or disability benefits in the month before the month of the insured's death, you have not attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) in the month of
death, and you have filed a Certificate of Election in which you elect to receive reduced widow's or widower's benefits.
(4) You applied in 1990 for widow's or widower's benefits based on disability, and you meet the requirements in both paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) You were entitled to disability insurance benefits for December 1990 or eligible for supplemental security income or federally administered State supplementary payments, as specified in subparts B and T of part 416 of this chapter, respectively, for January 1991.
(ii) You were found not disabled for any month based on the definition of disability in §§ 404.1577 and 404.1578, as in effect prior to January 1991, but would have been entitled if the standard in § 404.1505(a) had applied. (This exception to the requirement for filing an application is effective only with respect to benefits payable for months after December 1990.)
(c) You are at least 60 years old; or you are at least 50 years old and have a disability as defined in § 404.1505 and you meet all of the conditions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Your disability started not later than 7 years after the insured died or 7 years after you were last entitled to mother's or father's benefits or to widow's or widower's benefits based upon a disability, whichever occurred last.
(2) Your disability continued during a waiting period of 5 full consecutive months, unless months beginning with the first month of eligibility for supplemental security income or federally administered State supplementary payments are counted, as explained in the Exception in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. This waiting period may begin no earlier than the 17th month before you applied; the fifth month before the insured died; or if you were previously entitled to mother's, father's, widow's, or widower's benefits, the 5th month before your previous entitlement to benefits ended. If you were previously entitled to widow's or widower's benefits based upon a disability, no waiting period is required.
(3) Exception: For monthly benefits payable for months after December 1990, if you were or have been eligible for supplemental security income or federally administered State supplementary payments, as specified in subparts B and T of part 416 of this chapter, respectively, your disability does not have to have continued through a separate, full 5-month waiting period before you may begin receiving benefits. We will include as months of the 5-month waiting period the months in a period beginning with the first month you received supplemental security income or a federally administered State supplementary payment and continuing through all succeeding months, regardless of whether the months in the period coincide with the months in which your waiting period would have occurred, or whether you continued to be eligible for supplemental security income or a federally administered State supplementary payment after the period began, or whether you met the nondisability requirements for entitlement to widow's or widower's benefits. However, we will not pay you benefits under this provision for any month prior to January 1991.
(4) You have not previously received 36 months of payments based on disability when drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535), regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have had, or your current application for widow's or widower's benefits is not based on a disability where drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(d) You are not entitled to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the insured person's primary insurance amount.
(e) You are unmarried, unless for benefits for months after 1983 you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) You remarried after you became 60 years old.
(2) You are now age 60 or older and you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) You remarried after attaining age 50 but before attaining age 60.
(ii) At the time of the remarriage, you were entitled to widow's or widower's benefits as a disabled widow or widower.
(3) You are now at least age 50 but not yet age 60 and you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) You remarried after attaining age 50.
(ii) You met the disability requirements in paragraph (c) of this section at the time of your remarriage (
i.e.,
your disability began within the specified time and before your remarriage).
[68 FR 4705, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 24814, Apr. 27, 2006]
§ 404.337
When does my entitlement to widow's and widower's benefits start and end?
(a) We will find you entitled to widow's or widower's benefits under § 404.335 or § 404.336 beginning with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all other requirements for entitlement.
(b) We will end your entitlement to widow's or widower's benefits at the earliest of the following times:
(1) The month before the month in which you become entitled to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the insured's primary insurance amount.
(2) The second month after the month your disability ends or, where disability ends on or after December 1, 1980, the month before your termination month (§ 404.325). However your payments are subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

# Note:
You may remain eligible for payment of benefits if you attained full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) before your termination month and you meet the other requirements for widow's or widower's benefits.
(3) If drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 404.1535, the month after the 12th consecutive month of suspension for noncompliance with treatment or after 36 months of benefits on that basis when treatment is available regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have had, unless you are otherwise disabled without regard to drug addiction or alcoholism.
(4) The month before the month in which you die.
(c)(1) Your benefits may be continued after your impairment is no longer disabling if—
(i) You are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services, as described in § 404.327(a) and (b);
(ii) You began participating in the program before the date your disability ended; and
(iii) We have determined under § 404.328 that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(2) We generally will stop your benefits with the earliest of these months—
(i) The month in which you complete the program; or
(ii) The month in which you stop participating in the program for any reason (see § 404.327(b) for what we mean by “participating” in the program); or
(iii) The month in which we determine under § 404.328 that your continuing participation in the program will no longer increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
Exception to paragraph (c)
: In no case will we stop your benefits with a month earlier than the second month after the month your disability ends, provided that you meet all other requirements for entitlement to and payment of benefits through such month.
(d) If, after November 1980, you have a disabling impairment (§ 404.1511), we will pay you benefits for all months in which you do not do substantial gainful activity during the reentitlement period (§ 404.1592a) following the end of your trial work period (§ 404.1592). If you are unable to do substantial gainful activity in the first month following the reentitlement period, we will pay you benefits until you are able to do substantial gainful activity. (Earnings during your trial work period do not affect the payment of your benefits.) We will also pay you benefits for the first month after the trial work
period in which you do substantial gainful activity and the two succeeding months, whether or not you do substantial gainful activity during those succeeding months. After those three months, we cannot pay you benefits for any months in which you do substantial gainful activity.
[68 FR 4706, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 36506, June 24, 2005]
§ 404.338
Widow's and widower's benefits amounts.
(a) Your monthly benefit is equal to the insured person's primary insurance amount. If the insured person dies before reaching age 62 and you are first eligible after 1984, we may compute a special primary insurance amount to determine the amount of the monthly benefit (see § 404.212(b)).
(b) We may increase your monthly benefit amount if the insured person delays filing for benefits or requests voluntary suspension of benefits, and thereby earns delayed retirement credit (see § 404.313), and/or works before the year 2000 after reaching full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409(a)). The amount of your monthly benefit may change as explained in § 404.304.
(c) Your monthly benefit will be reduced if the insured person chooses to receive old-age benefits before reaching full retirement age. If so, your benefit will be reduced to the amount the insured person would be receiving if alive, or 82
1/2
percent of his or her primary insurance amount, whichever is larger.
[70 FR 28811, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.339
How do I become entitled to mother's or father's benefits as a surviving spouse?
You may be entitled as the widow or widower to mother's or father's benefits on the earnings record of someone who was fully or currently insured when he or she died. You are entitled to these benefits if—
(a) You are the widow or widower of the insured and meet the conditions described in § 404.335(a);
(b) You apply for these benefits; or you were entitled to wife's benefits for the month before the insured died;
(c) You are unmarried;
(d) You are not entitled to widow's or widower's benefits, or to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the full mother's or father's benefit; and
(e) You have
in your care
the insured's child who is entitled to child's benefits and he or she is under 16 years old or is disabled. Sections 404.348 and 404.349 describe when a child is
in your care.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 73 FR 40967, July 17, 2008]
§ 404.340
How do I become entitled to mother's or father's benefits as a surviving divorced spouse?
You may be entitled to mother's or father's benefits as the surviving divorced wife or the surviving divorced husband on the earnings record of someone who was fully or currently insured when she or he died. You are entitled to these benefits if—
(a) You were validly married to the insured under State law as described in § 404.345 or you were deemed to be validly married as described in § 404.346 but the marriage ended in a final divorce and—
(1) You are the mother or father of the insured's child; or
(2) You were married to the insured when either of you adopted the other's child or when both of you adopted a child and the child was then under 18 years old;
(b) You apply for these benefits; or you were entitled to wife's or husband's benefits for the month before the insured died;
(c) You are unmarried;
(d) You are not entitled to widow's or widower's benefits, or to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the full mother's or father's benefit; and
(e) You have
in your care
the insured's child who is under age 16 or disabled, is your natural or adopted child, and is entitled to child's benefits on the insured person's record. Sections
404.348 and 404.349 describe when a child is
in your care.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 68932, Oct. 17, 1980; 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 58 FR 64891, Dec. 10, 1993; 73 FR 40967, July 17, 2008]
§ 404.341
When mother's and father's benefits begin and end.
(a) You are entitled to mother's or father's benefits beginning with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all the other requirements for entitlement.
(b) Your entitlement to benefits ends with the month before the month in which one of the following events first occurs:
(1) You become entitled to a widow's or widower's benefit or to an old-age benefit that is equal to or larger than the full mother's or father's benefit.
(2) There is no longer a child of the insured who is under age 16 or disabled and entitled to a child's benefit on the insured's earnings record. (See paragraph (c) of this section if you were entitled to mother's or father's benefits for August 1981.) (If you no longer have in your care a child who is under age 16 or disabled and entitled to child's benefits on the insured's earnings record, your benefits may be subject to deductions as provided in § 404.421.)
(3) You remarry. Your benefits will not end, however, if you marry someone entitled to old-age, disability, wife's, husband's, widow's, widower's, father's, mother's, parent's or disabled child's benefits.
(4) You die.
(c) If you were entitled to spouse's benefits on the basis of having a child in care, or to mother's or father's benefits for August 1981, your entitlement will continue until September 1983, until the child reaches 18 (unless disabled) or is otherwise no longer entitled to child's benefits, or until one of the events described in paragraph (b) (1), (3), or (4) of this section occurs, whichever is earliest.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 49 FR 24115, June 12, 1984; 58 FR 64891, Dec. 10, 1993; 64 FR 14608, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 404.342
Mother's and father's benefit amounts.
Your mother's or father's monthly benefit is equal to 75 percent of the insured person's primary insurance amount. The amount of your monthly benefit may change as explained in § 404.304.
§ 404.344
Your relationship by marriage to the insured.
You may be eligible for benefits if you are related to the insured person as a wife, husband, widow, or widower. To decide your relationship to the insured, we look first to State laws. The State laws that we use are discussed in § 404.345. If your relationship cannot be established under State law, you may still be eligible for benefits if your relationship as the insured's wife, husband, widow, or widower is based upon a
deemed valid marriage
as described in § 404.346.
§ 404.345
Your relationship as wife, husband, widow, or widower under State law.
To decide your relationship as the insured's wife or husband, we look to the laws of the State where the insured had a permanent home when you applied for wife's or husband's benefits. To decide your relationship as the insured's widow or widower, we look to the laws of the State where the insured had a permanent home when he or she died. If the insured's permanent home is not or was not in one of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, or American Samoa, we look to the laws of the District of Columbia. For a definition of permanent home, see § 404.303. If you and the insured were validly married under State law at the time you apply for wife's or husband's benefits or at the time the insured died if you apply for widow's, widower's, mother's, or father's benefits, the relationship requirement will be met. The relationship requirement will also be met if under State law you would be able to inherit a wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's share of the insured's personal property if he or she were to die without leaving a will.
§ 404.346
Your relationship as wife, husband, widow, or widower based upon a deemed valid marriage.
(a)
General.
If your relationship as the insured's wife, husband, widow, or widower cannot be established under State law as explained in § 404.345, you may be eligible for benefits based upon a deemed valid marriage. You will be deemed to be the wife, husband, widow, or widower of the insured if, in good faith, you went through a marriage ceremony with the insured that would have resulted in a valid marriage except for a legal impediment. A legal impediment includes only an impediment which results because a previous marriage had not ended at the time of the ceremony or because there was a defect in the procedure followed in connection with the intended marriage. For example, a defect in the procedure may be found where a marriage was performed through a religious ceremony in a country that requires a civil ceremony for a valid marriage. Good faith means that at the time of the ceremony you did not know that a legal impediment existed, or if you did know, you thought that it would not prevent a valid marriage.
(b)
Entitlement based upon a deemed valid marriage.
To be entitled to benefits as a wife, husband, widow or widower as the result of a deemed valid marriage, you and the insured must have been living in the same household (see § 404.347) at the time the insured died or, if the insured is living, at the time you apply for benefits. However, a marriage that had been deemed valid, shall continue to be deemed valid if the insured individual and the person entitled to benefits as the wife or husband of the insured individual are no longer living in the same household at the time of death of the insured individual.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 65540, Oct. 3, 1980; 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 58 FR 64892, Dec. 10, 1993]
§ 404.347
“Living in the same household” defined.
Living in the same household means that you and the insured customarily lived together as husband and wife in the same residence. You may be considered to be living in the same household although one of you is temporarily absent from the residence. An absence will be considered temporary if:
(a) It was due to service in the U.S. Armed Forces;
(b) It was 6 months or less and neither you nor the insured were outside of the United States during this time and the absence was due to business, employment, or confinement in a hospital, nursing home, other medical institution, or a penal institution;
(c) It was for an extended separation, regardless of the duration, due to the confinement of either you or the insured in a hospital, nursing home, or other medical institution, if the evidence indicates that you were separated solely for medical reasons and you otherwise would have resided together; or
(d) It was based on other circumstances, and it is shown that you and the insured reasonably could have expected to live together in the near future.
[61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 404.348
When is a child living with me in my care?
A child who has been living with you for at least 30 days is
in your care
unless—
(a) The child is in active military service;
(b) The child is 16 years old or older and not disabled;
(c) The child is 16 years old or older with a mental disability, but you do not actively supervise his or her activities and you do not make important decisions about his or her needs, either alone or with help from your spouse; or
(d) The child is 16 years old or older with a physical disability, but it is not necessary for you to perform personal services for him or her. Personal services are services such as dressing, feeding, and managing money that the child cannot do alone because of a disability.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 73 FR 40967, July 17, 2008]
§ 404.349
When is a child living apart from me in my care?
(a)
In your care.
A child living apart from you is in your care if—
(1) The child lived apart from you for not more than 6 months, or the child's current absence from you is not expected to last over 6 months;
(2) The child is under 16 years old, you supervise his or her activities and make important decisions about his or her needs, and one of the following circumstances exist:
(i) The child is living apart because of school but spends at least 30 days vacation with you each year unless some event makes having the vacation unreasonable; and if you and the child's other parent are separated, the school looks to you for decisions about the child's welfare;
(ii) The child is living apart because of your employment but you make regular and substantial contributions to his or her support; see § 404.366(a) for a definition of
contributions for support
;
(iii) The child is living apart because of a physical disability that the child has or that you have; or
(3) The child is 16 years old or older, is mentally disabled, and you supervise his or her activities, make important decisions about his or her needs, and help in his or her upbringing and development.
(b)
Not in your care.
A child living apart from you is not in your care if—
(1) The child is in active military service;
(2) The child is living with his or her other parent;
(3) The child is removed from your custody and control by a court order;
(4) The child is 16 years old or older, is mentally competent, and either has been living apart from you for 6 months or more or begins living apart from you and is expected to be away for more than 6 months;
(5) You gave your right to have custody and control of the child to someone else; or
(6) You are mentally disabled.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983]

# Child's Benefits
§ 404.350
Who is entitled to child's benefits?
(a)
General.
You are entitled to child's benefits on the earnings record of an insured person who is entitled to old-age or disability benefits or who has died if—
(1) You are the insured person's child, based upon a relationship described in §§ 404.355 through 404.359;
(2) You are dependent on the insured, as defined in §§ 404.360 through 404.365;
(3) You apply;
(4) You are unmarried; and
(5) You are under age 18; you are 18 years old or older and have a disability that began before you became 22 years old; or you are 18 years or older and qualify for benefits as a full-time student as described in § 404.367.
(b)
Entitlement preclusion for certain disabled children.
If you are a disabled child as referred to in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, and your disability was based on a finding that drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535) and your benefits ended after your receipt of 36 months of benefits, you will not be entitled to benefits based on disability for any month following such 36 months regardless of the number of entitlement periods you have had if, in such following months, drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the later determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535).
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 60 FR 8146, Feb. 10, 1995; 61 FR 38363, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.351
Who may be reentitled to child's benefits?
If your entitlement to child's benefits has ended, you may be reentitled on the same earnings record if you have not married and if you apply for reentitlement. Your reentitlement may begin with—
(a) The first month in which you qualify as a full-time student. (See § 404.367.)
(b) The first month in which you are disabled, if your disability began before you became 22 years old.
(c) The first month you are under a disability that began before the end of the 84th month following the month in which your benefits had ended because an earlier disability had ended; or
(d) With respect to benefits payable for months beginning October 2004, you
can be reentitled to childhood disability benefits at anytime if your prior entitlement terminated because you ceased to be under a disability due to the performance of substantial gainful activity and you meet the other requirements for reentitlement. The 84-month time limit in paragraph (c) in this section continues to apply if your previous entitlement to childhood disability benefits terminated because of medical improvement.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21927, May 16, 1983; 61 FR 38363, July 24, 1996; 71 FR 66865, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 404.352
When does my entitlement to child's benefits begin and end?
(a) We will find your entitlement to child's benefits begins at the following times:
(1) If the insured is deceased, with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all other requirements for entitlement.
(2) If the insured is living and your first month of entitlement is September 1981 or later, with the first month covered by your application throughout which you meet all other requirements for entitlement.
(3) If the insured is living and your first month of entitlement is before September 1981, with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all other requirements for entitlement.
(b) We will find your entitlement to child's benefits ends at the earliest of the following times:
(1) With the month before the month in which you become 18 years old, if you are not disabled or a full-time student.
(2) With the second month following the month in which your disability ends, if you become 18 years old and you are disabled. If your disability ends on or after December 1, 1980, your entitlement to child's benefits continues, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, until the month before your termination month (§ 404.325).
(3) With the last month you are a full-time student or, if earlier, with the month before the month you become age 19, if you become 18 years old and you qualify as a full-time student who is not disabled. If you become age 19 in a month in which you have not completed the requirements for, or received, a diploma or equivalent certificate from an elementary or secondary school and you are required to enroll for each quarter or semester, we will find your entitlement ended with the month in which the quarter or semester in which you are enrolled ends. If the school you are attending does not have a quarter or semester system which requires reenrollment, we will find your entitlement to benefits ended with the month you complete the course or, if earlier, the first day of the third month following the month in which you become 19 years old.
(4) With the month before the month you marry. We will not find your benefits ended, however, if you are age 18 or older, disabled, and you marry a person entitled to child's benefits based on disability or person entitled to old-age, divorced wife's, divorced husband's, widow's, widower's, mother's, father's, parent's, or disability benefits.
(5) With the month before the month the insured's entitlement to old-age or disability benefits ends for a reason other than death or the attainment of full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409). Exception: We will continue your benefits if the insured person was entitled to disability benefits based on a finding that drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of his or her disability (as described in § 404.1535), the insured person's benefits ended after 36 months of payment (see § 404.316(e)) or 12 consecutive months of suspension for noncompliance with treatment (see § 404.316(f)), and the insured person remains disabled.
(6) With the month before the month you die.
(7) With the month in which the divorce between your parent (including an adoptive parent) and the insured stepparent becomes final if you are entitled to benefits as a stepchild and the marriage between your parent (including an adoptive parent) and the insured stepparent ends in divorce.
(c) If you are entitled to benefits as a disabled child age 18 or over and your disability is based on a finding that drug addiction or alcoholism was a
contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535), we will find your entitlement to benefits ended under the following conditions:
(1) If your benefits have been suspended for a period of 12 consecutive months for failure to comply with treatment, with the month following the 12 months unless you are otherwise disabled without regard to drug addiction or alcoholism (see § 404.470(c)).
(2) If you have received 36 months of benefits on that basis when treatment is available, regardless of the number of entitlement periods you may have had, with the month following such 36-month payment period unless you are otherwise disabled without regard to drug addiction or alcoholism.
(d)(1) Your benefits may be continued after your impairment is no longer disabling if—
(i) You are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services, as described in § 404.327(a) and (b);
(ii) You began participating in the program before the date your disability ended; and
(iii) We have determined under § 404.328 that your completion of the program, or your continuation in the program for a specified period of time, will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
(2) We generally will stop your benefits with the earliest of these months—
(i) The month in which you complete the program; or
(ii) The month in which you stop participating in the program for any reason (see § 404.327(b) for what we mean by “participating” in the program); or
(iii) The month in which we determine under § 404.328 that your continuing participation in the program will no longer increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls.
Exception to paragraph (d)
: In no case will we stop your benefits with a month earlier than the second month after the month your disability ends, provided that you meet all other requirements for entitlement to and payment of benefits through such month.
(e) If, after November 1980, you have a disabling impairment (§ 404.1511), we will pay you benefits for all months in which you do not do substantial gainful activity during the reentitlement period (§ 404.1592a) following the end of your trial work period (§ 404.1592). If you are unable to do substantial gainful activity in the first month following the reentitlement period, we will pay you benefits until you are able to do substantial gainful activity. (Earnings during your trial work period do not affect the payment of your benefits during that period.) We will also pay you benefits for the first month after the trial work period in which you do substantial gainful activity and the two succeeding months, whether or not you do substantial gainful activity during those succeeding months. After those three months, we cannot pay you benefits for any months in which you do substantial gainful activity.
[68 FR 4707, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 36506, June 24, 2005; 75 FR 52621, Aug. 27, 2010]
§ 404.353
Child's benefit amounts.
(a)
General.
Your child's monthly benefit is equal to one-half of the insured person's primary insurance amount if he or she is alive and three-fourths of the primary insurance amount if he or she has died. The amount of your monthly benefit may change as explained in § 404.304.
(b)
Entitlement to more than one benefit.
If you are entitled to a child's benefit on more than one person's earnings record, you will ordinarily receive only the benefit payable on the record with the highest primary insurance amount. If your benefit before any reduction would be larger on an earnings record with a lower primary insurance amount and no other person entitled to benefits on any earnings record would receive a smaller benefit as a result of your receiving benefits on the record with the lower primary insurance amount, you will receive benefits on that record. See § 404.407(d) for a further explanation. If you are entitled to
a child's benefit and to other dependent's or survivor's benefits, you can receive only the highest of the benefits.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979; 44 FR 56691, Oct. 2, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21928, May 16, 1983; 51 FR 12606, Apr. 14, 1986; 61 FR 38363, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.354
Your relationship to the insured.
You may be related to the insured person in one of several ways and be entitled to benefits as his or her child,
i.e.
, as a natural child, legally adopted child, stepchild, grandchild, stepgrandchild, or equitably adopted child. For details on how we determine your relationship to the insured person, see §§ 404.355 through 404.359.
[63 FR 57593, Oct. 28, 1998]
§ 404.355
Who is the insured's natural child?
(a)
Eligibility as a natural child.
You may be eligible for benefits as the insured's natural child if any of the following conditions is met:
(1) You could inherit the insured's personal property as his or her natural child under State inheritance laws, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) You are the insured's natural child and the insured and your mother or father went through a ceremony which would have resulted in a valid marriage between them except for a “legal impediment” as described in § 404.346(a).
(3) You are the insured's natural child and your mother or father has not married the insured, but the insured has either acknowledged in writing that you are his or her child, been decreed by a court to be your father or mother, or been ordered by a court to contribute to your support because you are his or her child. If the insured is deceased, the acknowledgment, court decree, or court order must have been made or issued before his or her death. To determine whether the conditions of entitlement are met throughout the first month as stated in § 404.352(a), the written acknowledgment, court decree, or court order will be considered to have occurred on the first day of the month in which it actually occurred.
(4) Your mother or father has not married the insured but you have evidence other than the evidence described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section to show that the insured is your natural father or mother. Additionally, you must have evidence to show that the insured was either living with you or contributing to your support at the time you applied for benefits. If the insured is not alive at the time of your application, you must have evidence to show that the insured was either living with you or contributing to your support when he or she died. See § 404.366 for an explanation of the terms “living with” and “contributions for support.”
(b)
Use of State Laws
—(1)
General.
To decide whether you have inheritance rights as the natural child of the insured, we use the law on inheritance rights that the State courts would use to decide whether you could inherit a child's share of the insured's personal property if the insured were to die without leaving a will. If the insured is living, we look to the laws of the State where the insured has his or her permanent home when you apply for benefits. If the insured is deceased, we look to the laws of the State where the insured had his or her permanent home when he or she died. If the insured's permanent home is not or was not in one of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Northern Mariana Islands, we will look to the laws of the District of Columbia. For a definition of permanent home, see § 404.303. For a further discussion of the State laws we use to determine whether you qualify as the insured's natural child, see paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section. If these laws would permit you to inherit the insured's personal property as his or her child, we will consider you the child of the insured.
(2)
Standards.
We will not apply any State inheritance law requirement that an action to establish paternity must be taken within a specified period of time measured from the worker's death or the child's birth, or that an action to establish paternity must have been started or completed before the worker's death. If applicable State inheritance law requires a court determination of paternity, we will not require
that you obtain such a determination but will decide your paternity by using the standard of proof that the State court would use as the basis for a determination of paternity.
(3)
Insured is living.
If the insured is living, we apply the law of the State where the insured has his or her permanent home when you file your application for benefits. We apply the version of State law in effect when we make our final decision on your application for benefits. If you do not qualify as a child of the insured under that version of State law, we look at all versions of State law that were in effect from the first month for which you could be entitled to benefits up until the time of our final decision and apply the version of State law that is most beneficial to you.
(4)
Insured is deceased.
If the insured is deceased, we apply the law of the State where the insured had his or her permanent home when he or she died. We apply the version of State law in effect when we make our final decision on your application for benefits. If you do not qualify as a child of the insured under that version of State law, we will apply the version of State law that was in effect at the time the insured died, or any version of State law in effect from the first month for which you could be entitled to benefits up until our final decision on your application. We will apply whichever version is most beneficial to you. We use the following rules to determine the law in effect as of the date of death:
(i) If a State inheritance law enacted after the insured's death indicates that the law would be retroactive to the time of death, we will apply that law; or
(ii) If the inheritance law in effect at the time of the insured's death was later declared unconstitutional, we will apply the State law which superseded the unconstitutional law.
[63 FR 57593, Oct. 28, 1998]
§ 404.356
Who is the insured's legally adopted child?
You may be eligible for benefits as the insured's child if you were legally adopted by the insured. If you were legally adopted after the insured's death by his or her surviving spouse you may also be considered the insured's legally adopted child. We apply the adoption laws of the State or foreign country where the adoption took place, not the State inheritance laws described in § 404.355, to determine whether you are the insured's legally adopted child.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 63 FR 57594, Oct. 28, 1998]
§ 404.357
Who is the insured's stepchild?
You may be eligible for benefits as the insured's stepchild if, after your birth, your natural or adopting parent married the insured. You also may be eligible as a stepchild if you were conceived prior to the marriage of your natural parent to the insured but were born after the marriage and the insured is not your natural parent. The marriage between the insured and your parent must be a valid marriage under State law or a marriage which would be valid except for a
legal impediment
described in § 404.346(a). If the insured is alive when you apply, you must have been his or her stepchild for at least 1 year immediately preceding the day you apply. For purposes of determining whether the conditions of entitlement are met
throughout
the first month as stated in § 404.352(a)(2)(i), you will be considered to meet the one year duration requirement throughout the month in which the anniversary of the marriage occurs. If the insured is not alive when you apply, you must have been his or her stepchild for at least 9 months immediately preceding the day the insured died. This 9-month requirement will not have to be met if the marriage between the insured and your parent lasted less than 9 months under one of the conditions described in § 404.335(a)(2)(i)-(iii).
[48 FR 21928, May 16, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 14608, Mar. 26, 1999; 70 FR 61365, Oct. 24, 2005]
§ 404.358
Who is the insured's grandchild or stepgrandchild?
(a)
Grandchild and stepgrandchild defined.
You may be eligible for benefits as the insured's grandchild or stepgrandchild if you are the natural child, adopted child, or stepchild of a person who is the insured's child as defined in §§ 404.355 through 404.357, or
§ 404.359. Additionally, for you to be eligible as a grandchild or stepgrandchild, your natural or adoptive parents must have been either deceased or under a disability, as defined in § 404.1501(a), at the time your grandparent or stepgrandparent became entitled to old-age or disability benefits or died; or if your grandparent or stepgrandparent had a period of disability that continued until he or she became entitled to benefits or died, at the time the period of disability began. If your parent is deceased, for purposes of determining whether the conditions of entitlement are met
throughout
the first month as stated in § 404.352(a)(2)(i), your parent will be considered to be deceased as of the first day of the month of death.
(b)
Legally adopted grandchild or stepgrandchild.
If you are the insured's grandchild or stepgrandchild and you are legally adopted by the insured or by the insured's surviving spouse after his or her death, you are considered an adopted child and the dependency requirements of § 404.362 must be met.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21928, May 16, 1983]
§ 404.359
Who is the insured's equitably adopted child?
You may be eligible for benefits as an equitably adopted child if the insured had agreed to adopt you as his or her child but the adoption did not occur. The agreement to adopt you must be one that would be recognized under State law so that you would be able to inherit a child's share of the insured's personal property if he or she were to die without leaving a will. The agreement must be in whatever form, and you must meet whatever requirements for performance under the agreement, that State law directs. If you apply for child's benefits after the insured's death, the law of the State where the insured had his or her permanent home at the time of his or her death will be followed. If you apply for child's benefits during the insured's life, the law of the State where the insured has his or her permanent home at the time or your application will be followed.
§ 404.360
When a child is dependent upon the insured person.
One of the requirements for entitlement to child's benefits is that you be dependent upon the insured. The evidence you need to prove your dependency is determined by how you are related to the insured. To prove your dependency you may be asked to show that at a specific time you lived with the insured, that you received contributions for your support from the insured, or that the insured provided at least one-half of your support. These dependency requirements, and the time at which they must be met, are explained in §§ 404.361 through 404.365. The terms
living with, contributions for support,
and
one-half support
are defined in § 404.366.
§ 404.361
When a natural child is dependent.
(a)
Dependency of natural child.
If you are the insured's natural child, as defined in § 404.355, you are considered dependent upon him or her, except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Dependency of natural child legally adopted by someone other than the insured.
(1) Except as indicated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if you are legally adopted by someone other than the insured (your natural parent) during the insured's lifetime, you are considered dependent upon the insured only if the insured was either living with you or contributing to your support at one of the following times:
(i) When you applied;
(ii) When the insured died; or
(iii) If the insured had a period of disability that lasted until he or she became entitled to disability or old-age benefits or died, at the beginning of the period of disability or at the time he or she became entitled to disability or old-age benefits.
(2) You are considered dependent upon the insured (your natural parent) if:
(i) You were adopted by someone other than the insured after you applied for child's benefits; or
(ii) The insured had a period of disability that lasted until he or she became entitled to old-age or disability benefits or died, and you are adopted by someone other than the insured
after the beginning of that period of disability.
[64 FR 14608, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 404.362
When a legally adopted child is dependent.
(a)
General.
If you were legally adopted by the insured before he or she became entitled to old-age or disability benefits, you are considered dependent upon him or her. If you were legally adopted by the insured after he or she became entitled to old-age or disability benefits and you apply for child's benefits during the life of the insured, you must meet the dependency requirements stated in paragraph (b) of this section. If you were legally adopted by the insured after he or she became entitled to old-age or disability benefits and you apply for child's benefits after the death of the insured, you are considered dependent upon him or her. If you were adopted after the insured's death by his or her surviving spouse, you may be considered dependent upon the insured only under the conditions described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Adoption by the insured after he or she became entitled to benefits
—(1)
General.
If you are legally adopted by the insured after he or she became entitled to benefits and you are not the insured's natural child or stepchild, you are considered dependent on the insured during his or her lifetime only if—
(i) You had not attained age 18 when adoption proceedings were started, and your adoption was issued by a court of competent jurisdiction within the United States; or
(ii) You had attained age 18 before adoption proceedings were started; your adoption was issued by a court of competent jurisdiction within the United States; and you were living with or receiving at least one-half of your support from the insured for the year immediately preceding the month in which your adoption was issued.
(2)
Natural child and stepchild.
If you were legally adopted by the insured after he or she became entitled to benefits and you are the insured's natural child or stepchild, you are considered dependent upon the insured.
(c)
Adoption by the insured's surviving spouse
—(1)
General.
If you are legally adopted by the insured's surviving spouse after the insured's death, you are considered dependent upon the insured as of the date of his or her death if—
(i) You were either living with or receiving at least one-half of your support from the insured at the time of his or her death; and,
(ii) The insured had started adoption proceedings before he or she died; or if the insured had not started the adoption proceedings before he or she died, his or her surviving spouse began and completed the adoption within 2 years of the insured's death.
(2)
Grandchild or stepgrandchild adopted by the insured's surviving spouse.
If you are the grandchild or stepgrandchild of the insured and any time after the death of the insured you are legally adopted by the insured's surviving spouse, you are considered the dependent child of the insured as of the date of his or her death if—
(i) Your adoption took place in the United States;
(ii) At the time of the insured's death, your natural, adopting or stepparent was not living in the insured's household and making regular contributions toward your support; and
(iii) You meet the dependency requirements stated in § 404.364.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979; 44 FR 56691, Oct. 2, 1979, as amended at 56 FR 24000, May 28, 1991; 57 FR 3938, Feb. 3, 1992]
§ 404.363
When is a stepchild dependent?
If you are the insured's stepchild, as defined in § 404.357, we consider you dependent on him or her if you were receiving at least one-half of your support from him or her at one of these times—
(a) When you applied;
(b) When the insured died; or
(c) If the insured had a period of disability that lasted until his or her death or entitlement to disability or old-age benefits, at the beginning of the period of disability or at the time the insured became entitled to benefits.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 75 FR 52621, Aug. 27, 2010]
§ 404.364
When is a grandchild or stepgrandchild dependent?
If you are the insured's grandchild or stepgrandchild, as defined in § 404.358(a), you are considered dependent upon the insured if—
(a) You began living with the insured before you became 18 years old; and
(b) You were living with the insured in the United States and receiving at least one-half of your support from him or her for the year before he or she became entitled to old-age or disability benefits or died; or if the insured had a period of disability that lasted until he or she became entitled to benefits or died, for the year immediately before the month in which the period of disability began. If you were born during the 1-year period, the insured must have lived with you and provided at least one-half of your support for
substantially all
of the period that begins on the date of your birth. Paragraph (c) of this section explains when the
substantially all
requirement is met.
(c) The “substantially all” requirement will be met if, at one of the times described in paragraph (b) of this section, the insured was living with you and providing at least one-half of your support, and any period during which he or she was not living with you and providing one-half of your support did not exceed the lesser of 3 months or one-half of the period beginning with the month of your birth.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 73 FR 40967, July 17, 2008]
§ 404.365
When an equitably adopted child is dependent.
If you are the insured's equitably adopted child, as defined in § 404.359, you are considered dependent upon him or her if you were either living with or receiving contributions for your support from the insured at the time of his or her death. If your equitable adoption is found to have occurred after the insured became entitled to old-age or disability benefits, your dependency cannot be established during the insured's life. If your equitable adoption is found to have occurred before the insured became entitled to old-age or disability benefits, you are considered dependent upon him or her if you were either living with or receiving contributions for your support from the insured at one of these times—
(a) When you applied; or
(b) If the insured had a period of disability that lasted until he or she became entitled to old-age or disability benefits, at the beginning of the period of disability or at the time the insured became entitled to benefits.
§ 404.366
“Contributions for support,” “one-half support,” and “living with” the insured defined—determining first month of entitlement.
To be eligible for child's or parent's benefits, and in certain Government pension offset cases, you must be dependent upon the insured person at a particular time or be assumed dependent upon him or her. What it means to be a dependent child is explained in §§ 404.360 through 404.365; what it means to be a dependent parent is explained in § 404.370(f); and the Government pension offset is explained in § 404.408a. Your dependency upon the insured person may be based upon whether at a specified time you were receiving
contributions for your support
or
one-half of your support
from the insured person, or whether you were
living with
him or her. These terms are defined in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a)
Contributions for support.
The insured makes a contribution for your support if the following conditions are met:
(1) The insured gives some of his or her own cash or goods to help support you. Support includes food, shelter, routine medical care, and other ordinary and customary items needed for your maintenance. The value of any goods the insured contributes is the same as the cost of the goods when he or she gave them for your support. If the insured provides services for you that would otherwise have to be paid for, the cash value of his or her services may be considered a contribution for your support. An example of this would be work the insured does to repair your home. The insured person is making a contribution for your support if you receive an allotment, allowance, or benefit based upon his or her military pay, veterans' pension or compensation, or social security earnings.
(2) Contributions must be made regularly and must be large enough to meet an important part of your ordinary living costs. Ordinary living costs are the costs for your food, shelter, routine medical care, and similar necessities. If the insured person only provides gifts or donations once in a while for special purposes, they will not be considered contributions for your support. Although the insured's contributions must be made on a regular basis, temporary interruptions caused by circumstances beyond the insured person's control, such as illness or unemployment, will be disregarded unless during this interruption someone else takes over responsibility for supporting you on a permanent basis.
(b)
One-half support.
The insured person provides one-half of your support if he or she makes regular contributions for your ordinary living costs; the amount of these contributions equals or exceeds one-half of your ordinary living costs; and any income (from sources other than the insured person) you have available for support purposes is one-half or less of your ordinary living costs. We will consider any income which is available to you for your support whether or not that income is actually used for your ordinary living costs. Ordinary living costs are the costs for your food, shelter, routine medical care, and similar necessities. A contribution may be in cash, goods, or services. The insured is not providing at least one-half of your support unless he or she has done so for a reasonable period of time. Ordinarily we consider a reasonable period to be the 12-month period immediately preceding the time when the one-half support requirement must be met under the rules in §§ 404.362(c)(1) and 404.363 (for child's benefits), in § 404.370(f) (for parent's benefits) and in § 404.408a(c) (for benefits where the Government pension offset may be applied). A shorter period will be considered reasonable under the following circumstances:
(1) At some point within the 12-month period, the insured either begins or stops providing at least one-half of your support on a permanent basis and this is a change in the way you had been supported up to then. In these circumstances, the time from the change up to the end of the 12-month period will be considered a reasonable period, unless paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies. The change in your source of support must be permanent and not temporary. Changes caused by seasonal employment or customary visits to the insured's home are considered temporary.
(2) The insured provided one-half or more of your support for at least 3 months of the 12-month period, but was forced to stop or reduce contributions because of circumstances beyond his or her control, such as illness or unemployment, and no one else took over the responsibility for providing at least one-half of your support on a permanent basis. Any support you received from a public assistance program is not considered as a taking over of responsibility for your support by someone else. Under these circumstances, a reasonable period is that part of the 12-month period before the insured was forced to reduce or stop providing at least one-half of your support.
(c)
“Living with” the insured.
You are living with the insured if you ordinarily live in the same home with the insured and he or she is exercising, or has the right to exercise, parental control and authority over your activities. You are living with the insured during temporary separations if you and the insured expect to live together in the same place after the separation. Temporary separations may include the insured's absence because of active military service or imprisonment if he or she still exercises parental control and authority. However, you are not considered to be living with the insured if you are in active military service or in prison. If
living with
is used to establish dependency for your eligibility to child's benefits and the date your application is filed is used for establishing the point for determining dependency, you must have been living with the insured throughout the month your application is filed in order to be entitled to benefits for that month.
(d)
Determining first month of entitlement.
In evaluating whether dependency is established under paragraph
(a), (b), or (c) of this section, for purposes of determining whether the conditions of entitlement are met
throughout
the first month as stated in § 404.352(a)(2)(i), we will not use the temporary separation or temporary interruption rules.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 65540, Oct. 3, 1980; 48 FR 21928, May 16, 1983; 52 FR 26955, July 17, 1987; 64 FR 14608, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 404.367
When you are a “full-time elementary or secondary school student”.
You may be eligible for child's benefits if you are a full-time elementary or secondary school student. For the purposes of determining whether the conditions of entitlement are met throughout the first month as stated in § 404.352(a)(2)(i), if you are entitled as a student on the basis of attendance at an elementary or secondary school, you will be considered to be in full-time attendance for a month during any part of which you are in full-time attendance. You are a full-time elementary or secondary school student if you meet all the following conditions:
(a) You attend a school which provides elementary or secondary education as determined under the law of the State or other jurisdiction in which it is located. Participation in the following programs also meets the requirements of this paragraph:
(1) You are instructed in elementary or secondary education at home in accordance with a home school law of the State or other jurisdiction in which you reside; or
(2) You are in an independent study elementary or secondary education program in accordance with the law of the State or other jurisdiction in which you reside which is administered by the local school or school district/jurisdiction.
(b) You are in full-time attendance in a day or evening noncorrespondence course of at least 13 weeks duration and you are carrying a subject load which is considered full-time for day students under the institution's standards and practices. If you are in a home schooling program as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must be carrying a subject load which is considered full-time for day students under standards and practices set by the State or other jurisdiction in which you reside;
(c) To be considered in full-time attendance, your scheduled attendance must be at the rate of at least 20 hours per week unless one of the exceptions in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section applies. If you are in an independent study program as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, your number of hours spent in school attendance are determined by combining the number of hours of attendance at a school facility with the agreed upon number of hours spent in independent study. You may still be considered in full-time attendance if your scheduled rate of attendance is below 20 hours per week if we find that:
(1) The school attended does not schedule at least 20 hours per week and going to that particular school is your only reasonable alternative; or
(2) Your medical condition prevents you from having scheduled attendance of at least 20 hours per week. To prove that your medical condition prevents you from scheduling 20 hours per week, we may request that you provide appropriate medical evidence or a statement from the school.
(d) You are not being paid while attending the school by an employer who has requested or required that you attend the school;
(e) You are in grade 12 or below; and
(f) You are not subject to the provisions in § 404.468 for nonpayment of benefits to certain prisoners and certain other inmates of publicly funded institutions.
[48 FR 21928, May 16, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 55452, Dec. 13, 1983; 56 FR 35999, July 30, 1991; 61 FR 38363, July 24, 1996]
§ 404.368
When you are considered a full-time student during a period of nonattendance.
If you are a full-time student, your eligibility may continue during a period of nonattendance (including part-time attendance) if all the following conditions are met:
(a) The period of nonattendance is 4 consecutive months or less;
(b) You show us that you intend to resume your studies as a full-time student at the end of the period or at the end of the period you are a full-time student; and
(c) The period of nonattendance is not due to your expulsion or suspension from the school.
[48 FR 21929, May 16, 1983]

# Parent's Benefits
§ 404.370
Who is entitled to parent's benefits?
You may be entitled to parent's benefits on the earnings record of someone who has died and was fully insured. You are entitled to these benefits if all the following conditions are met:
(a) You are related to the insured person as his or her parent in one of the ways described in § 404.374.
(b) You are at least 62 years old.
(c) You have not married since the insured person died.
(d) You apply.
(e) You are not entitled to an old-age benefit equal to or larger than the parent's benefit amount.
(f) You were receiving at least one-half of your support from the insured at the time he or she died, or at the beginning of any period of disability he or she had that continued up to death. See § 404.366(b) for a definition of
one-half support.
If you were receiving one-half of your support from the insured at the time of the insured's death, you must give us proof of this support within 2 years of the insured's death. If you were receiving one-half of your support from the insured at the time his or her period of disability began, you must give us proof of this support within 2 years of the month in which the insured filed his or her application for the period of disability. You must file the evidence of support even though you may not be eligible for parent's benefits until a later time. There are two exceptions to the 2-year filing requirement:
(1) If there is a good cause for failure to provide proof of support within the 2-year period, we will consider the proof you give us as though it were provided within the 2-year period. Good cause does not exist if you were informed of the need to provide the proof within the 2-year period and you neglected to do so or did not intend to do so. Good cause will be found to exist if you did not provide the proof within the time limit due to—
(i) Circumstances beyond your control, such as extended illness, mental or physical incapacity, or a language barrier;
(ii) Incorrect or incomplete information we furnished you;
(iii) Your efforts to get proof of the support without realizing that you could submit the proof after you gave us some other evidence of that support; or
(iv) Unusual or unavoidable circumstances that show you could not reasonably be expected to know of the 2-year time limit.
(2) The Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 provides for extending the filing time.
§ 404.371
When parent's benefits begin and end.
(a) You are entitled to parent's benefits beginning with the first month covered by your application in which you meet all the other requirements for entitlement.
(b) Your entitlement to benefits ends with the month before the month in which one of the following events first occurs:
(1) You become entitled to an old-age benefit equal to or larger than the parent's benefit.
(2) You marry, unless your marriage is to someone entitled to wife's, husband's, widow's, widower's, mother's, father's, parent's or disabled child's benefits. If you marry a person entitled to these benefits, the marriage does not affect your benefits.
(3) You die.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 24116, June 12, 1984]
§ 404.373
Parent's benefit amounts.
Your parent's monthly benefit before any reduction that may be made as explained in § 404.304, is figured in one of the following ways:
(a)
One parent entitled.
Your parent's monthly benefit is equal to 82
1/2
percent of the insured person's primary insurance amount if you are the only parent
entitled to benefits on his or her earnings record.
(b)
More than one parent entitled.
Your parent's monthly benefit is equal to 75 percent of the insured person's primary insurance amount if there is another parent entitled to benefits on his or her earnings record.
§ 404.374
Parent's relationship to the insured.
You may be eligible for benefits as the insured person's parent if—
(a) You are the mother or father of the insured and would be considered his or her parent under the laws of the State where the insured had a permanent home when he or she died;
(b) You are the adoptive parent of the insured and legally adopted him or her before the insured person became 16 years old; or
(c) You are the stepparent of the insured and you married the insured's parent or adoptive parent before the insured became 16 years old. The marriage must be valid under the laws of the State where the insured had his or her permanent home when he or she died. See § 404.303 for a definition of
permanent home.
§§ 404.380-404.384
[Reserved]

# Lump-Sum Death Payment
§ 404.390
General.
If a person is fully or currently insured when he or she dies, a lump-sum death payment of $255 may be paid to the widow or widower of the deceased if he or she was living in the same household with the deceased at the time of his or her death. If the insured is not survived by a widow(er) who meets this requirement, all or part of the $255 payment may be made to someone else as described in § 404.392.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21929, May 16, 1983; 61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 404.391
Who is entitled to the lump-sum death payment as a widow or widower who was living in the same household?
You are entitled to the lump-sum death payment as a widow or widower who was living in the same household if—
(a) You are the widow or widower of the deceased insured individual based upon a relationship described in § 404.345 or § 404.346;
(b) You apply for this payment within two years after the date of the insured's death. You need not apply again if, in the month prior to the death of the insured, you were entitled to wife's or husband's benefits on his or her earnings record; and
(c) You were living in the same household with the insured at the time of his or her death. The term
living in the same household
is defined in § 404.347.
[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21929, May 16, 1983]
§ 404.392
Who is entitled to the lump-sum death payment when there is no widow(er) who was living in the same household?
(a)
General.
If the insured individual is not survived by a widow(er) who meets the requirements of § 404.391, the lump-sum death payment shall be paid as follows:
(1) To a person who is entitled (or would have been entitled had a timely application been filed) to widow's or widower's benefits (as described in § 404.335) or mother's or father's benefits (as described in § 404.339) on the work record of the deceased worker for the month of that worker's death; or
(2) If no person described in (1) survives, in equal shares to each person who is entitled (or would have been entitled had a timely application been filed) to child's benefits (as described in § 404.350) on the work record of the deceased worker for the month of that worker's death.
(b)
Application requirement.
A person who meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not apply to receive the lump-sum death payment if, for the month prior to the death of the insured, that person was entitled to wife's or husband's benefits on the insured's earnings record. Otherwise, an application must be filed within 2 years of the insured's death.
[48 FR 21929, May 16, 1983; 61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996]

# Subpart E—Deductions; Reductions; and Nonpayments of Benefits

# Authority:
Secs. 202, 203, 204(a) and (e), 205(a) and (c), 216(l), 222(c), 223(e), 224, 225, 702(a)(5), and 1129A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402, 403, 404(a) and (e), 405(a) and (c), 416(l), 422(c), 423(e), 424a, 425, 902(a)(5), and 1320a-8a); 48 U.S.C. 1801.

# Source:
32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, unless otherwise noted.
§ 404.401
Deduction, reduction, and nonpayment of monthly benefits or lump-sum death payments.
Under certain conditions, the amount of a monthly insurance benefit or the lump-sum death payment as calculated under the pertinent provisions of sections 202 and 203 of the Act (including reduction for age under section 202(q) of a monthly benefit) must be increased or decreased to determine the amount to be actually paid to a beneficiary. Increases in the amount of a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment are based upon recomputation and recalculations of the primary insurance amount (see subpart C of this part). A decrease in the amount of a monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment is required in the following instances:
(a)
Reductions.
A reduction of a person's monthly benefit is required where:
(1) The total amount of the monthly benefits payable on an earnings record exceeds the maximum that may be paid (see § 404.403);
(2) An application for monthly benefits is effective for a month during a retroactive period, and the maximum has already been paid for that month or would be exceeded if such benefit were paid for that month (see § 404.406);
(3) An individual is entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits in addition to any other monthly benefit (see § 404.407);
(4) An individual under full retirement age (see § 404.409) is concurrently entitled to disability insurance benefits and to certain public disability benefits (see § 404.408);
(5) An individual is entitled in a month to a widow's or widower's insurance benefit that is reduced under section 202 (e)(4) or (f)(5) of the Act and to any other monthly insurance benefit other than an old-age insurance benefit (see § 404.407(b)); or
(6) An individual is entitled in a month to old-age, disability, wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's insurance benefit and reduction is required under section 202(q) of the Act (see § 404.410).
(b)
Deductions.
A deduction from a monthly benefit or a lump-sum death payment may be required because of:
(1) An individual's earnings or work (see §§ 404.415 and 404.417);
(2) Failure of certain beneficiaries receiving wife's or mother's insurance benefits to have a child in her care (see § 404.421);
(3) The earnings or work of an old-age insurance beneficiary where a wife, husband, or child is also entitled to benefits (see §§ 404.415 and 404.417);
(4) Failure to report within the prescribed period either certain work outside the United States or not having the care of a child (see § 404.451);
(5) Failure to report within the prescribed period earnings from work in employment or self-employment (
see
§ 404.453); or
(6) Certain taxes which were neither deducted from the wages of maritime employees nor paid to the Federal Government (see § 404.457).
(c)
Adjustments.
We may adjust your benefits to correct errors in payments under title II of the Act. We may also adjust your benefits if you received more than the correct amount due under titles VIII or XVI of the Act. For the title II rules on adjustment to your benefits, see subpart F of this part. For the rules on adjusting your benefits to recover title VIII overpayments, see § 408.930 of this chapter. For the rules on adjusting your benefits to recover title XVI overpayments, see § 416.572 of this chapter.
(d)
Nonpayments.
Nonpayment of monthly benefits may be required because:
(1) The individual is an alien who has been outside the United States for more than 6 months (see § 404.460);
(2) The individual on whose earnings record entitlement is based has been deported (see § 404.464);
(3) The individual is engaged in substantial gainful activity while entitled to disability insurance benefits based on “statutory blindness” (see § 404.467); or
(4) The individual has not provided satisfactory proof that he or she has a Social Security number or has not properly applied for a Social Security number (see § 404.469).
(e)
Recalculation.
A reduction by recalculation of a benefit amount may be prescribed because an individual has been convicted of certain offenses (see § 404.465) or because the primary insurance amount is recalculated (see subpart C of this part).
(f)
Suspensions.
Suspension of monthly benefits may be required pursuant to section 203(h)(3) of the Act (the Social Security Administration has information indicating that work deductions may reasonably be expected for the year), or pursuant to section 225 of the Act (the Social Security Administration has information indicating a beneficiary is no longer disabled).
[40 FR 30813, July 23, 1975, as amended at 48 FR 37016, Aug. 16, 1983; 56 FR 41789, Aug. 23, 1991; 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000; 66 FR 38906, July 26, 2001; 68 FR 40122, July 7, 2003; 69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004; 81 FR 19033, Apr. 4, 2016; 83 FR 21708, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.401a
When we do not pay benefits because of a disability beneficiary's work activity.
If you are receiving benefits because you are disabled or blind as defined in title II of the Social Security Act, we will stop your monthly benefits even though you have a disabling impairment (§ 404.1511), if you engage in substantial gainful activity during the reentitlement period (§ 404.1592a) following completion of the trial work period (§ 404.1592). You will, however, be paid benefits for the first month after the trial work period in which you do substantial gainful activity and the two succeeding months, whether or not you do substantial gainful activity in those two months. If anyone else is receiving monthly benefits based on your earnings record, that individual will not be paid benefits for any month for which you cannot be paid benefits during the reentitlement period. Except as provided in § 404.471, earnings from work activity during a trial work period will not stop your benefits.
[49 FR 22271, May 29, 1984, as amended at 58 FR 64883, Dec. 10, 1993; 71 FR 66865, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 404.402
Interrelationship of deductions, reductions, adjustments, and nonpayment of benefits.
(a)
Deductions, reductions, adjustment.
Deductions because of earnings or work (
see
§§ 404.415 and 404.417); failure to have a child “in his or her care” (
see
§ 404.421); as a penalty for failure to timely report noncovered work outside the United States, failure to report that he or she no longer has a child “in his or her care,” or failure to timely report earnings (
see
§§ 404.451 and 404.453); because of unpaid maritime taxes (
see
§ 404.457); or nonpayments because of drug addiction and alcoholism to individuals other than an insured individual who are entitled to benefits on the insured individual's earnings record are made:
(1) Before making any reductions because of the
maximum
(see § 404.403),
(2) Before applying the benefit
rounding
provisions (see § 404.304(f)), and,
(3) Except for deductions imposed as a penalty (see §§ 404.451 and 404.453), before making any adjustment necessary because an error has been made in the payment of benefits (see subpart F). However, for purposes of charging excess earnings for taxable years beginning after December 1960 or ending after June 1961, see paragraph (b) of this section and § 404.437 for reductions that apply before such charging.
(b)
Reductions, nonpayments.
(1) Reduction because of the
maximum
(see § 404.403) is made:
(i) Before reduction because of simultaneous entitlement to old-age or disability insurance benefits and to other benefits (see § 404.407);
(ii) Before reduction in benefits for age (see §§ 404.410 through 404.413);
(iii) Before adjustment necessary because an error has been made in the payment of benefits (see subpart F of this part);
(iv) Before reduction because of entitlement to certain public disability benefits provided under Federal, State, or local laws or plans (see § 404.408);
(v) Before nonpayment of an individual's benefits because he is an alien living outside the United States for 6 months (see § 404.460), or because of deportation (see § 404.464);
(vi) Before the redetermination of the amount of benefit payable to an individual who has been convicted of certain offenses (see § 404.465); and
(vii) Before suspension of benefits due to earnings (see § 404.456), for benefits payable or paid for months after December 1995 to a non-working auxiliary or survivor who resides in a different household than the working auxiliary or survivor whose benefits are suspended.
(2) Reduction of benefits because of entitlement to certain public disability benefits (
see
§ 404.408) is made before deduction under section 203 of the Act relating to work (
see
§§ 404.415, 404.417, 404.451, and 404.453) and failure to have care of a child (
see
§§ 404.421 and 404.451).
(3) Reduction of the benefit of a spouse who is receiving a Government pension (see § 404.408(a)) is made after the withholding of payments as listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and after reduction because of receipt of certain public disability benefits (paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(c)
Alien outside the United States; deportation nonpayment—deduction.
If an individual is subject to nonpayment of a benefit for a month under § 404.460 or § 404.464, no deduction is made from his benefit for that month under § 404.415, § 404.417, or § 404.421, and no deduction is made because of that individual's work from the benefit of any person entitled or deemed entitled to benefits under § 404.420, on his earnings record, for that month.
(d)
Order of priority—deductions and other withholding provisions.
Deductions and other withholding provisions are applied in accordance with the following order of priority:
(1) Current nonpayments under §§ 404.460, 404.464, 404.465, 404.467, and 404.469;
(2) Current reductions under § 404.408;
(3) Current reductions under § 404.408a;
(4) Current deductions under §§ 404.417 and 404.421;
(5) Current withholding of benefits under § 404.456;
(6) Unpaid maritime tax deductions (§ 404.457);
(7) Withholdings to recover overpayments (see subpart F of this part);
(8) Penalty deductions under §§ 404.451 and 404.453.
[40 FR 30813, July 23, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 29047, May 18, 1979; 48 FR 37016, Aug. 16, 1983; 48 FR 46148, Oct. 11, 1983; 56 FR 41789, Aug. 23, 1991; 60 FR 8146, Feb. 10, 1995; 68 FR 15659, Apr. 1, 2003; 68 FR 40122, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.403
Reduction where total monthly benefits exceed maximum family benefits payable.
(a)
General.
(1) The Social Security Act limits the amount of monthly benefits that can be paid for any month based on the earnings of an insured individual. If the total benefits to which all persons are entitled on one earnings record exceed a maximum amount prescribed by law, then those benefits must be reduced so that they do not exceed that maximum.
(2) The method of determining the total benefits payable (the
family maximum
) depends on when the insured individual died or became eligible, whichever is earlier. For purposes of this section, the year in which the insured individual becomes eligible refers generally to the year in which the individual attains age 62 or becomes disabled. However, where eligibility or death is in 1979 or later, the year of death, attainment of age 62, or beginning of current disability does not control if the insured individual was entitled to a disability benefit within the 12 month period preceding current eligibility or death. Instead the year in which the individual became eligible for the former disability insurance benefit is the year of eligibility.
(3) The benefits of an individual entitled as a divorced spouse or surviving divorced spouse will not be reduced pursuant to this section. The benefits of all other individuals entitled on the same record will be determined under this section as if no such divorced spouse or surviving divorced spouse were entitled to benefits.
(4) In any case where more than one individual is entitled to benefits as the spouse or surviving spouse of a worker
for the same month, and at least one of those individuals is entitled based on a marriage not valid under State law (see §§ 404.345 and 404.346), the benefits of the individual whose entitlement is based on a valid marriage under State law will not be reduced pursuant to this section. The benefits of all other individuals entitled on the same record (unless excluded by paragraph (a)(3) of this section) will be determined under this section as if such validly married individual were not entitled to benefits.
(5) When a person entitled on a worker's earnings record is also entitled to benefits on another earnings record, we consider only the amount of benefits actually due or payable on the worker's record to the dually-entitled person when determining how much to reduce total monthly benefits payable on the worker's earnings record because of the maximum. We do not include, in total benefits payable, any amount not paid because of that person's entitlement on another earnings record (see § 404.407). The effect of this provision is to permit payment of up to the full maximum benefits to other beneficiaries who are not subject to a deduction or reduction. (See § 404.402 for other situations where we apply deductions or reductions before reducing total benefits for the maximum.)

# Example 1:
A wage earner, his wife and child are entitled to benefits. The wage earner's primary insurance amount is $600.00. His maximum is $900.00. Due to the maximum limit, the monthly benefits for the wife and child must be reduced to $150.00 each. Their original benefit rates are $300.00 each.
Maximum—$900.00
Subtract primary insurance amount—$600.00
Amount available for wife and child—$300.00
Divide by 2—$150.00 each for wife and child
The wife is also entitled to benefits on her own record of $120.00 monthly. This reduces her wife's benefit to $30.00. The following table illustrates this calculation.
Wife's benefit, reduced for maximum—$150.00
Subtract reduction due to dual entitlement—$120.00
Wife's benefit—$30.00
In computing the total benefits payable on the record, we disregard the $120.00 we cannot pay the wife. This allows us to increase the amount payable to the child to $270.00. The table below shows the steps in our calculation.
Amount available under maximum—$300.00
Subtract amount due wife after reduction due to entitlement to her own benefit—$30.00
Child's benefit—$270.00

# Example 2:
A wage earner, his wife and 2 children are entitled to benefits. The wage earner's primary insurance amount is $1,250.00. His maximum is $2,180.00. Due to the maximum limit, the monthly benefits for the wife and children must be reduced to $310.00 each. Their original rates (50 percent of the worker's benefit) are $625.00 each. The following shows the calculation.
Maximum—$2,180.00
Subtract primary insurance amount—$1,250.00
Amount available for wife and children—$930.00
Divide by 3—$310 each for wife and children
The children are also entitled to benefits on their own records. Child one is entitled to $390.00 monthly and child two is entitled to $280.00 monthly. This causes a reduction in the benefit to child one to 0.00 and the benefit to child two to $30.00. Again, the following illustrates the calculation.
Benefit payable to child 1 reduced for maximum—$310.00
Subtract reduction due to dual entitlement—$390.00
Benefit payable to child 1—$0.00
Benefit payable to child 2, reduced for maximum—$310.00
Subtract reduction for dual entitlement—$280.00
Benefit payable to child 2—$30.00
In computing the total benefits payable on the record, we consider only the benefits actually paid to the children, or $30. This allows payment of an additional amount to the wife, increasing her benefit to $625.00. This is how the calculation works.
Amount available under maximum for wife and children—$930.00
Subtract amount due children after reduction due to entitlement to their own benefits—$30.00
Amount available for wife—$900.00
Amount payable to wife (original benefit)—$625.00

# Example 3:
A wage earner, his wife and 4 children are entitled to benefits. The wage earner's primary insurance amount is $1,250.00. His maximum is $2,180.00. Due to the maximum limit, the monthly benefits for the wife and children must be reduced to $186.00 each. Their original rates are $625.00 each. This is how the calculation works.
Maximum—$2,180.00
Subtract primary insurance amount—$1,250.00
Amount available for wife and children—$930.00
Divide by 5—$186.00 each for wife and four children
Two children are also entitled to benefits on their own records. Child one is entitled to $390.00 monthly and child two is entitled to $280.00 monthly. This causes a reduction in the benefit to child one to $0.00 and the benefit to child two to $0.00. This calculation is as follows.
Benefit to child 1, reduced for maximum—$186.00
Subtract reduction due to dual entitlement—$390.00
Benefit payable to child 1—$0.00
Benefit to child 2, reduced for maximum—$186.00
Subtract reduction for dual entitlement—$280.00
Benefit payable to child two—$0.00
In computing the total benefits payable on the record, we disregard the $372.00 we cannot pay the children. This allows payment of an additional amount to the wife, and the two remaining children as follows:
Amount available under maximum for wife and children—$930.00
Subtract amount due child one and child two after reduction due to entitlement to their own benefits—$0.00
Amount available for wife and the other two children—$930.00
Amount payable to the wife and each of the remaining two children—$310.00
(b)
Eligibility or death before 1979.
Where more than one individual is entitled to monthly benefits for the same month on the same earnings record, a reduction in the total benefits payable for that month may be required (except in cases involving a
saving clause
—see § 404.405) if the maximum family benefit is exceeded. The maximum is exceeded if the total of the monthly benefits exceeds the amount appearing in column V of the applicable table in section 215(a) of the Act on the line on which appears in column IV the primary insurance amount of the insured individual whose earnings record is the basis for the benefits payable. Where the maximum is exceeded, the total benefits for each month after 1964 are reduced to the amount appearing in column V. However, when any of the persons entitled to benefits on the insured individual's earnings would, except for the limitation described in § 404.353(b), be entitled to child's insurance benefits on the basis of the earnings record of one or more other insured individuals, the total benefits payable may not be reduced to less than the smaller of—
(1) The sum of the maximum amounts of benefits payable on the basis of the earnings records of all such insured individuals, or
(2) The last figure in column V of the applicable table in (or deemed to be in) section 215(a) of the Act. The
applicable
table refers to the table which is effective for the month the benefit is payable.
(c)
Eligible for old-age insurance benefits or dies in 1979.
If an insured individual becomes eligible for old-age insurance benefits or dies in 1979, the monthly maximum is as follows—
(1) 150 percent of the first $230 of the individual's primary insurance amount, plus
(2) 272 percent of the primary insurance amount over $230 but not over $332, plus
(3) 134 percent of the primary insurance amount over $332 but not over $433, plus
(4) 175 percent of the primary insurance amount over $433.
If the total of this computation is not a multiple of $0.10, it will be rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10.
(d)
Eligible for old-age insurance benefits or dies after 1979.
(1) If an insured individual becomes eligible for old-age insurance benefits or dies after 1979, the monthly maximum is computed as in paragraph (c) of this section. However, the dollar amounts shown there will be updated each year as average earnings rise. This updating is done by first dividing the average of the total wages (see § 404.203(m)) for the second year before the individual dies or becomes eligible, by the average of the total wages for 1977. The result of that computation is then multiplied by each dollar amount in the formula in paragraph (c) of this section. Each updated dollar amount will be rounded to the nearer dollar; if the amount is an exact multiple of $0.50 (but not of $1), it will be rounded to the next higher $1.
(2) Before November 2 of each calendar year after 1978, the Commissioner will publish in the
Federal Register
the formula and updated dollar amounts to be used for determining the monthly maximum for the following year.
(d-1)
Entitled to disability insurance benefits after June 1980.
If you first become eligible for old-age or disability insurance benefits after 1978 and first entitled to disability insurance benefits after June 1980, we compute the monthly family maximum under a formula which is different from that in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. The computation under the new formula is as follows:
(1) We take 85 percent of your average indexed monthly earnings and compare that figure with your primary insurance amount (see § 404.212 of this part). We work with the larger of these two amounts.
(2) We take 150 percent of your primary insurance amount.
(3) We compare the results of paragraphs (d-1) (1) and (2) of this section. The smaller amount is the monthly family maximum. As a result of this rule, the entitled spouse and children of some workers will not be paid any benefits because the family maximum does not exceed the primary insurance amount.
(e)
Person entitled on more than one record during years after 1978 and before 1984.
(1) If any of the persons entitled to monthly benefits on the earnings record of an insured individual would, except for the limitation described in § 404.353(b), be entitled to child's insurance benefits on the earnings record of one or more other insured individuals, the total benefits payable may not be reduced to less than the smaller of—(i) the sum of the maximum amounts of benefits payable on the earnings records of all the insured individuals, or (ii) 1.75 times the highest primary insurance amount possible for that month based on the average indexed monthly earnings equal to one-twelfth of the contribution and benefit base determined for that year.
(2) If benefits are payable on the earnings of more than one individual and the primary insurance amount of one of the insured individuals was computed under the provisions in effect before 1979 and the primary insurance amount of the others was computed under the provisions in effect after 1978, the maximum monthly benefits cannot be more than the amount computed under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Person entitled on more than one record for years after 1983.
(1) If any person for whom paragraphs (c) and (d) would apply is entitled to monthly benefits on the earnings record of an insured individual would, except for the limitation described in § 404.353(b), be entitled to child's insurance benefits on the earnings record of one or more other insured individuals, the total benefits payable to all persons on the earnings record of any of those insured individuals may not be reduced to less than the smaller of:
(i) The sum of the maximum amounts of benefits payable on the earnings records of all the insured individuals, or
(ii) 1.75 times the highest primary insurance amount possible for January 1983, or if later, January of the year that the person becomes entitled or reentitled on more than one record.
This highest primary insurance amount possible for that year will be based on the average indexed monthly earnings equal to one-twelfth of the contribution and benefit base determined for that year. Thereafter, the total monthly benefits payable to persons on the earnings record of those insured individuals will then be increased only when monthly benefits are increased because of cost-of-living adjustments (see § 404.270ff).
(2) If benefits are payable on the earnings of more than one individual and the primary insurance amount of one of the insured individuals was computed under the provisions in effect before 1979 and the primary insurance amount of the other was computed under the provisions in effect after 1978, the maximum monthly benefits cannot be more than the amount computed under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g)
Person previously entitled to disability insurance benefits.
If an insured individual who was previously entitled to disability insurance benefits becomes entitled to a “second entitlement” as defined in § 404.250, or dies, after 1995, and the insured individual's primary insurance amount is determined under §§ 404.251(a)(1), 404.251(b)(1), or 404.252(b), the monthly
maximum during the second entitlement is determined under the following rules:
(1) If the primary insurance amount is determined under §§ 404.251(a)(1) or 404.251(b)(1), the monthly maximum equals the maximum in the last month of the insured individual's earlier entitlement to disability benefits, increased by any cost-of-living or ad hoc increases since then.
(2) If the primary insurance amount is determined under § 404.252(b), the monthly maximum equals the maximum in the last month of the insured individual's earlier entitlement to disability benefits.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, if the second entitlement is due to the insured individual's retirement or death, and the monthly maximum in the last month of the insured individual's earlier entitlement to disability benefits was computed under paragraph (d-1) of this section, the monthly maximum is equal to the maximum that would have been determined for the last month of such earlier entitlement if computed without regard for paragraph (d-1) of this section.
[45 FR 1611, Jan. 8, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 25601, May 8, 1981; 48 FR 46148, Oct. 11, 1983; 51 FR 12606, Apr. 14, 1986; 58 FR 64892, Dec. 10, 1993; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 64 FR 17101, Apr. 8, 1999; 64 FR 57775, Oct. 27, 1999; 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.404
How reduction for maximum affects insured individual and other persons entitled on his earnings record.
If a reduction of monthly benefits is required under the provisions of § 404.403, the monthly benefit amount of each of the persons entitled to a monthly benefits on the same earnings record (with the exception of the individual entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits) is proportionately reduced so that the total benefits that can be paid in 1 month (including an amount equal to the primary insurance amount of the old-age or disability insurance beneficiary, when applicable) does not exceed the maximum family benefit (except as provided in § 404.405 where various savings clause provisions are described).
§ 404.405
Situations where total benefits can exceed maximum because of “savings clause.”
The following provisions are
savings clauses
and describe exceptions to the rules concerning the maximum amount payable on an individual's earnings record in a month as described in § 404.403. The effect of a
savings clause
is to avoid lowering benefit amounts or to guarantee minimum increases to certain persons entitled on the earnings record of the insured individual when a statutory change has been made that would otherwise disadvantage them. The reduction described in § 404.403 does not apply in the following instances:
(a)-(m) [Reserved]
(n)
Months after August 1972.
The reduction described in § 404.403(a) shall not apply to benefits for months after August 1972 where two or more persons were entitled to benefits for August 1972 based upon the filing of an application in August 1972 or earlier and the total of such benefits was subject to reduction for the maximum under § 404.403 (or would have been subject to such reduction except for this paragraph) for January 1971. In such a case, maximum family benefits on the insured individual's earnings record for any month after August 1972 may not be less than the larger of:
(1) The maximum family benefits for such month determined under the applicable table in section 215(a) of the Act (the
applicable
table in section 215(a) is that table which is effective for the month the benefit is payable or in the case of a lump-sum payment, the month the individual died); or
(2) The total obtained by multiplying each benefit for August 1972 after reduction for the maximum but before deduction or reduction for age, by 120 percent and raising each such increased amount, if it is not a multiple of 10 cents, to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(o)
Months after December 1972.
The reduction described in § 404.403 shall not apply to benefits for months after December 1972 in the following cases:
(1) In the case of a redetermination of widow's or widower's benefits, the reduction described in § 404.403 shall not apply if:
(i) Two or more persons were entitled to benefits for December 1972 on the earnings records of a deceased individual and at least one such person is entitled to benefits as the deceased individual's widow or widower for December 1972 and for January 1973; and
(ii) The total of benefits to which all persons are entitled for January 1973 is reduced (or would be reduced if deductions were not applicable) for the maximum under § 404.403.
In such case, the benefit of each person referred to in paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section for months after December 1972 shall be no less than the amount it would have been if the widow's or widower's benefit had not been redetermined under the Social Security Amendments of 1972.
(2) In the case of entitlement to child's benefits based upon disability which began between ages 18 and 22 the reduction described in § 404.403 shall not apply if:
(i) One or more persons were entitled to benefits on the insured individual's earnings record for December 1972 based upon an application filed in that month or earlier; and
(ii) One or more persons not included in paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section are entitled to child's benefits on that earnings record for January 1973 based upon disability which began in the period from ages 18 to 22; and
(iii) The total benefits to which all persons are entitled on that record for January 1973 is reduced (or would be reduced if deductions were not applicable) for the maximum under § 404.403.
In such case, the benefit of each person referred to in paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section for months after December 1972 shall be no less than the amount it would have been if the person entitled to child's benefits based upon disability in the period from ages 18 to 22 were not so entitled.
(3) In the case of entitlement of certain surviving divorced mothers, the reduction described in § 404.403 shall not apply if:
(i) One or more persons were entitled to benefits on the insured individual's earnings record for December 1972 based upon an application filed in December 1972 or earlier; and
(ii) One or more persons not included in paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section are entitled to benefits on that earnings record as a surviving divorced mother for a month after December 1972; and
(iii) The total of benefits to which all persons are entitled on that record for any month after December 1972 is reduced (or would be reduced if deductions were not applicable) for the maximum under § 404.403.
In such case, the benefit of each such person referred to in paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section for months after December 1972 in which any person referred to in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section is entitled shall be no less than it would have been if the person(s) referred to in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section had not become entitled to benefits.
(p)
Months after December 1973.
The reduction described in § 404.403 shall not apply to benefits for months after December 1973 where two or more persons were entitled to monthly benefits for January 1971 or earlier based upon applications filed in January 1971 or earlier, and the total of such benefits was subject to reduction for the maximum under § 404.403 for January 1971 or earlier. In such a case, maximum family benefits payable on the insured individual's earnings record for any month after January 1971 may not be less than the larger of:
(1) The maximum family benefit for such month shown in the applicable table in section 215(a) of the Act (the
applicable
table in section 215(a) of the Act is that table which is effective for the month the benefit is payable or in the case of a lump-sum payment, the month the individual died); or
(2) The largest amount which has been determined payable for any month for persons entitled to benefits on the insured individual's earnings records; or
(3) In the case of persons entitled to benefits on the insured individual's earnings record for the month immediately preceding the month of a general benefit or cost-of-living increase after September 1972, an amount equal to the sum of the benefit amount for each person (excluding any part of an old-age insurance benefit increased because of delayed retirement under the provisions of § 404.305(a) for the month
immediately before the month of increase in the primary insurance amount (after reduction for the family maximum but before deductions or reductions for age) multiplied by the percentage of increase. Any such increased amount, if it is not a multiple of $0.10, will be raised to the next higher multiple of $0.10 for months before June 1982 and reduced to the next lower multiple of $0.10 for months after May 1982.
(q)
Months after May 1978.
The
family maximum
for months after May 1978 is figured for all beneficiaries just as it would have been if none of them had gotten a benefit increase because of the retirement credit if:
(1) One or more persons were entitled (without the reduction required by § 404.406) to monthly benefits for May 1978 on the wages and self-employment income of a deceased wage earner;
(2) The benefit for June 1978 of at least one of those persons is increased by reason of a delayed retirement credit (see § 404.330(b)(4) or § 404.333(b)(4)); and
(3) The total amount of monthly benefits to which all those persons are entitled is reduced because of the maximum or would be so reduced except for certain restrictions (see § 404.403 and § 404.402(a)).
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 40 FR 30814, July 23, 1975; 43 FR 8132, Feb. 28, 1978; 43 FR 29277, July 7, 1978; 48 FR 46148, Oct. 11, 1983]
§ 404.406
Reduction for maximum because of retroactive effect of application for monthly benefits.
Under the provisions described in § 404.403, beginning with the month in which a person files an application and becomes entitled to benefits on an insured individual's earnings record, the benefit rate of other persons entitled on the same earnings record (aside from the individual on whose earnings record entitlement is based) are adjusted downward, if necessary, so that the maximum benefits payable on one earnings record will not be exceeded. An application may also be effective (retroactively) for benefits for months before the month of filing (see § 404.603). For any month before the month of filing, however, benefits that have been previously certified by the Administration for payment to other persons (on the same earnings record) are not changed. Rather, the benefit payment of the person filing the application in the later month is reduced for each month of the retroactive period to the extent that may be necessary, so that no earlier payment to some other person is made erroneous. This means that for each month of the retroactive period the amount payable to the person filing the later application is the difference, if any, between (a) the total amount of benefits actually certified for payment to other persons for that month, and (b) the maximum amount of benefits payable for that month to all persons, including the person filing later.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 64 FR 14608, Mar. 26, 1999]
§ 404.407
Reduction because of entitlement to other benefits.
(a)
Entitlement to old-age or disability insurance benefit and other monthly benefit.
If an individual is entitled to an old-age insurance benefit or disability insurance benefit for any month after August 1958 and to any other monthly benefit payable under the provisions of title II of the Act (see subpart D of this part) for the same month, such other benefit for the month, after any reduction under section 202(q) of the Act because of entitlement to such benefit for months before retirement age and any reduction under section 203(a) of the Act, is reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to such old-age insurance benefit (after reduction under section 202(q) of the Act) or such disability insurance benefit, as the case may be.
(b)
Entitlement to widow's or widower's benefit and other monthly benefit.
If an individual is entitled for any month after August 1965 to a widow's or widower's insurance benefit under the provisions of section 202 (e)(4) or (f)(5) of the Act and to any other monthly benefit payable under the provisions of title II of the Act (see subpart D) for the same month, except an old-age insurance benefit, such other insurance
benefit for that month, after any reduction under paragraph (a) of this section, any reduction for age under section 202(q) of the Act, and any reduction under the provisions described in section 203(a) of the Act, shall be reduced, but not below zero, by an amount equal to such widow's or widower's insurance benefit after any reduction or reductions under paragraph (a) of this section or section 203(a) of the Act.
(c)
Entitlement to old-age insurance benefit and disability insurance benefit.
Any individual who is entitled for any month after August 1965 to both an old-age insurance benefit and a disability insurance benefit shall be entitled to only the larger of such benefits for such month, except that where the individual so elects, he or she shall instead be entitled to only the smaller of such benefits for such month. Only a person defined in § 404.612 (a), (c), or (d) may make the above described election.
(d)
Child's insurance benefits.
A child may, for any month, be simultaneously entitled to a child's insurance benefit on more than one individual's earnings if all the conditions for entitlement described in § 404.350 are met with respect to each claim. Where a child is simultaneously entitled to child's insurance benefits on more than one earnings record, the general rule is that the child will be paid an amount which is based on the record having the highest primary insurance amount. However, the child will be paid a higher amount which is based on the earnings record having a lower primary insurance amount if no other beneficiary entitled on any record would receive a lower benefit because the child is paid on the record with the lower primary insurance amount. (See § 404.353(b).)
(e)
Entitlement to more than one benefit where not all benefits are child's insurance benefits and no benefit is an old-age or disability insurance benefit.
If an individual (other than an individual to whom section 202 (e)(4) or (f)(5) of the Act applies) is entitled for any month to more than one monthly benefit payable under the provisions of this subpart, none of which is an old-age or disability insurance benefit and all of which are not child's insurance benefits, only the greater of the monthly benefits to which he would (but for the provisions of this paragraph) otherwise be entitled is payable for such month. For months after August 1965, an individual who is entitled for any month to more than one widow's or widower's insurance benefit to which section 202 (e)(4) or (f)(5) of the Act applies is entitled to only one such benefit for such month, such benefit to be the largest of such benefits.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 51 FR 12606, Apr. 14, 1986; 54 FR 5603, Feb. 6, 1989]
§ 404.408
Reduction of benefits based on disability on account of receipt of certain other disability benefits provided under Federal, State, or local laws or plans.
(a)
When reduction required.
Under section 224 of the Act, a disability insurance benefit to which an individual is entitled under section 223 of the Act for a month (and any monthly benefit for the same month payable to others under section 202 on the basis of the same earnings record) is reduced (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section) by an amount determined under paragraph (c) of this section if:
(1) The individual first became entitled to disability insurance benefits after 1965 but before September 1981 based on a period of disability that began after June 1, 1965, and before March 1981, and
(i) The individual entitled to the disability insurance benefit is also entitled to periodic benefits under a workers' compensation law or plan of the United States or a State for that month for a total or partial disability (whether or not permanent), and
(ii) The Commissioner has, in a month before that month, received a notice of the entitlement, and
(iii) The individual has not attained age 62, or
(2) The individual first became entitled to disability insurance benefits after August 1981 based on a disability that began after February 1981, and
(i) The individual entitled to the disability insurance benefit is also, for that month, concurrently entitled to a periodic benefit (including workers' compensation or any other payments
based on a work relationship) on account of a total or partial disability (whether or not permanent) under a law or plan of the United States, a State, a political subdivision, or an instrumentality of two or more of these entities, and
(ii) The individual has not attained full retirement age as defined in § 404.409.
(b)
When reduction not made.
(1) The reduction of a benefit otherwise required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not made if the workers' compensation law or plan under which the periodic benefit is payable provides for the reduction of such periodic benefit when anyone is entitled to a benefit under title II of the Act on the basis of the earnings record of an individual entitled to a disability insurance benefit under section 223 of the Act.
(2) The reduction of a benefit otherwise required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section is not to be made if:
(i) The law or plan under which the periodic public disability benefit is payable provides for the reduction of that benefit when anyone is entitled to a benefit under title II of the Act on the basis of the earnings record of an individual entitled to a disability insurance benefit under section 223 of the Act and that law or plan so provided on February 18, 1981. (The reduction required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section will not be affected by public disability reduction provisions not actually in effect on this date or by changes made after February 18, 1981, to provisions that were in effect on this date providing for the reduction of benefits previously not subject to a reduction); or
(ii) The benefit is a Veterans Administration benefit, a public disability benefit (except workers' compensation) payable to a public employee based on employment covered under Social Security, a public benefit based on need, or a wholly private pension or private insurance benefit.
(c)
Amount of reduction
—(1)
General.
The total of benefits payable for a month under sections 223 and 202 of the Act to which paragraph (a) of this section applies is reduced monthly (but not below zero) by the amount by which the sum of the monthly disability insurance benefits payable on the disabled individual's earnings record and the other public disability benefits payable for that month exceeds the higher of:
(i) Eighty percent of his
average current earnings,
as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, or
(ii) The total of such individual's disability insurance benefit for such month and all other benefits payable for such month based on such individual's earnings record, prior to reduction under this section.
(2)
Limitation on reduction.
In no case may the total of monthly benefits payable for a month to the disabled worker and to the persons entitled to benefits for such month on his earnings record be less than:
(i) The total of the benefits payable (after reduction under paragraph (a) of this section) to such beneficiaries for the first month for which reduction under this section is made, and
(ii) Any increase in such benefits which is made effective for months after the first month for which reduction under this section is made.
(3)
Average current earnings defined.
(i) Beginning January 1, 1979, for purposes of this section, an individual's
average current earnings
is the largest of either paragraph (c)(3)(i) (
a
), (
b
) or (
c
) of this section (after reducing the amount to the next lower multiple of $1 when the amount is not a multiple of $1):
(A) The average monthly wage (determined under section 215(b) of the Act as in effect prior to January 1979) used for purposes of computing the individual's disability insurance benefit under section 223 of the Act;
(B) One-sixtieth of the total of the individual's wages and earnings from self-employment, without the limitations under sections 209(a) and 211(b)(1) of the Act (see paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section), for the 5 consecutive calendar years after 1950 for which the wages and earnings from self-employment were highest; or
(C) One-twelfth of the total of the individual's wages and earnings from self-employment, without the limitations under sections 209(a) and 211(b)(1) of the Act (see paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section), for the calendar year in which the individual had the highest
wages and earnings from self-employment during the period consisting of the calendar year in which the individual became disabled and the 5 years immediately preceding that year. Any amount so computed which is not a multiple of $1 is reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(ii)
Method of determining calendar year earnings in excess of the limitations under sections 209(a) and 211(b)(1) of the Act.
For the purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the extent by which the wages or earnings from self-employment of an individual exceed the maximum amount of earnings creditable under sections 209(a) and 211(b)(1) of the Act in any calendar year after 1950 and before 1978 will ordinarily be estimated on the basis of the earnings information available in the records of Administration. (See subpart I of this part.) If an individual provides satisfactory evidence of his actual earnings in any year, the extent, if any, by which his earnings exceed the limitations under sections 209(a) and 211(b)(1) of the Act shall be determined by the use of such evidence instead of by the use of estimates.
(4)
Reentitlement to disability insurance benefits.
If an individual's entitlement to disability insurance benefits terminates and such individual again becomes entitled to disability insurance benefits, the amount of the reduction is again computed based on the figures specified in this paragraph (c) applicable to the subsequent entitlement.
(5)
Computing disability insurance benefits.
When reduction is required, the total monthly Social Security disability insurance benefits payable after reduction can be more easily computed by subtracting the monthly amount of the other public disability benefit from the higher of paragraph (c)(1) (i) or (ii). This is the method employed in the examples used in this section.
(d)
Items not counted for reduction.
Amounts paid or incurred, or to be incurred, by the individual for medical, legal, or related expenses in connection with the claim for public disability payments (see § 404.408 (a) and (b)) or the injury or occupational disease on which the public disability award or settlement agreement is based, are excluded in computing the reduction under paragraph (a) of this section to the extent they are consonant with the applicable Federal, State, or local law or plan and reflect either the actual amount of expenses already incurred or a reasonable estimate, given the circumstances in the individual's case, of future expenses. Any expenses not established by evidence required by the Administration or not reflecting a reasonable estimate of the individual's actual future expenses will not be excluded. These medical, legal, or related expenses may be evidenced by the public disability award, compromise agreement, a court order, or by other evidence as the Administration may require. This other evidence may consist of:
(1) A detailed statement by the individual's attorney, physician, or the employer's insurance carrier; or
(2) Bills, receipts, or canceled checks; or
(3) Other clear and convincing evidence indicating the amount of expenses; or
(4) Any combination of the foregoing evidence from which the amount of expenses may be determinable.
(e)
Certification by individual concerning eligibility for public disability benefits.
Where it appears that an individual may be eligible for a public disability benefit which would give rise to a reduction under paragraph (a) of this section, the individual may be required, as a condition of certification for payment of any benefit under section 223 of the Act to any individual for any month, and of any benefit under section 202 of the Act for any month based on such individual's earnings record, to furnish evidence as requested by the Administration and to certify as to:
(1) Whether he or she has filed or intends to file any claim for a public disability benefit, and
(2) If he or she has so filed, whether there has been a decision on the claim. The Commissioner may rely, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, upon a certification that he or she has not filed and does not intend to file such a claim, or that he or she has filed and no decision has been made, in certifying any benefit for payment pursuant to section 205(i) of the Act.
(f)
Verification of eligibility or entitlement to a public disability benefit under paragraph (a).
Section 224 of the Act requires the head of any Federal agency to furnish the Commissioner information from the Federal agency's records which is needed to determine the reduction amount, if any, or verify other information to carry out the provisions of this section. The Commissioner is authorized to enter into agreements with States, political subdivisions, and other organizations that administer a law or plan of public disability benefits in order to obtain information that may be required to carry out the provisions of this section.
(g)
Public disability benefit payable on other than a monthly basis.
Where public disability benefits are paid periodically but not monthly, or in a lump sum as a commutation of or a substitute for periodic benefits, such as a compromise and release settlement, the reduction under this section is made at the time or times and in the amounts that the Administration determines will approximate as nearly as practicable the reduction required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(h)
Priorities.
(1) For an explanation of when a reduction is made under this section where other reductions, deductions, etc., are involved, see § 404.402.
(2) Whenever a reduction in the total of benefits for any month based on an individual's earnings record is made under paragraph (a) of this section, each benefit, except the disability insurance benefit, is first proportionately decreased. Any excess reduction over the sum of all the benefits, other than the disability insurance benefit, is then applied to the disability insurance benefit.

# Example 1:
Effective September 1981, Harold is entitled to a monthly disability primary insurance amount of $507.90 and a monthly public disability benefit of $410.00 from the State. Eighty percent of Harold's average current earnings is $800.00. Because this amount ($800.00) is higher than Harold's disability insurance benefit ($507.90), we subtract Harold's monthly public disability benefit ($410.00) from eighty percent of his average current earnings ($800.00). This leaves Harold a reduced monthly disability benefit of $390.00.

# Example 2:
In September 1981, Tom is entitled to a monthly disability primary insurance amount of $559.30. His wife and two children are also entitled to monthly benefits of $93.20 each. The total family benefit is $838.90. Tom is also receiving a monthly workers' compensation benefit of $500.00 from the State. Eighty percent of Tom's average current earnings is $820.10. Because the total family benefit ($838.90) is higher than 80 percent of the average current earnings ($820.10), we subtract the monthly workers' compensation benefit ($500.00) from the total family benefit ($838.90), leaving $338.90 payable. This means the monthly benefits to Tom's wife and children are reduced to zero, and Tom's monthly disability benefit is reduced to $338.90.
(i)
Effect of changes in family composition.
The addition or subtraction in the number of beneficiaries in a family may cause the family benefit to become, or cease to be, the applicable limit for reduction purposes under this section. When the family composition changes, the amount of the reduction is recalculated as though the new number of beneficiaries were entitled for the first month the reduction was imposed. If the applicable limit both before and after the change is 80 percent of the average current earnings and the limitation on maximum family benefits is in effect both before and after the change, the amount payable remains the same and is simply redistributed among the beneficiaries entitled on the same earnings record.

# Example 1:
Frank is receiving $500.00 a month under the provisions of a State workers' compensation law. He had a prior period of disability which terminated in June 1978. In September 1981, Frank applies for a second period of disability and is awarded monthly disability insurance benefits with a primary insurance amount of $370.20. His child, Doug, qualifies for benefits of $135.10 a month on Frank's earnings record. The total family benefits is $505.30 monthly.
Frank's average monthly wage (as used to compute the primary insurance amount) is $400.00; eighty percent of his average current earnings (computed by using the 5 consecutive years in which his earnings were highest) is $428.80 (80% of $536.00); eighty percent of Frank's average current earnings (computed by using the 1 calendar year in which his earnings were highest) is $509.60 (80% of $637.00). The highest value for 80 percent of average current earnings is therefore $509.60 (80%). Since this is higher than the total family benefit ($505.30), the $509.60 is the applicable limit in determining the amount of the reduction (or offset). The amount payable after the reduction is—
80% of Frank's average current earnings
$509.60
Frank's monthly workers' compensation benefit
−500.00
Monthly benefit payable to Frank
9.60
No monthly benefits are payable to Doug because the reduction is applied to Doug's benefit first. In December 1981, another child, Mike, becomes entitled on Frank's earnings record. The monthly benefit to each child before reduction is now $109.10, the amount payable when there are two beneficiaries in addition to the wage earner. Thus, the total family benefit becomes $588.40. Because this is now higher than $509.60 (80% of Frank's average current earnings), $588.40 becomes the applicable limit in determining the amount of reduction. The amount payable after the increase in the total family benefit is—
The new total family benefit
$588.40
Frank's monthly workers' compensation rate
−500.00
Monthly benefit payable to Frank
88.40
No monthly benefits are payable to either child because the reduction (or offset) is applied to the family benefits first.

# Example 2:
Jack became entitled to disability insurance benefits in December 1973 (12/73), with a primary insurance amount (PIA) of $220.40. He was also receiving a workers' compensation benefit. An offset was imposed against the disability insurance benefit. By June 1977 (6/77), Jack's PIA had increased to $298.00 because of several statutory benefit increases. In December 1977 (12/77), his wife, Helen, attained age 65 and filed for unreduced wife's benefits. (She was not entitled to a benefit on her own earnings record.) This benefit was terminated in May 1978 (5/78), at her death. Helen's benefit was computed back to 12/73 as though she were entitled in the first month that offset was imposed against Jack. Since there were no other beneficiaries entitled and Helen's entire monthly benefit amount is subject to offset, the benefit payable to her for 12/77 through April 1978 (4/78), would be $38.80. This gives Helen the protected statutory benefit increases since 12/73. The table below shows how Helen's benefit was computed beginning with the first month offset was imposed.
Month of entitlement/statutory increase
Jack's PIA
Helen's benefit prior to offset
Helen's statutory increase
December 1973
$220.40
$110.20
March 1974
236.00
118.00
$7.80
June 1974
244.80
122.40
+ 4.40
June 1975
264.40
132.20
+ 9.80
June 1976
281.40
140.70
+ 8.50
June 1977
298.00
149.00
+ 8.30
December 1977 through April 1978
1
38.80
1
Monthly benefit payable to Helen.
(j)
Effect of social security disability insurance benefit increases.
Any increase in benefits due to a recomputation or a statutory increase in benefit rates is not subject to the reduction for public disability benefits under paragraph (a) and does not change the amount to be deducted from the family benefit. The increase is simply added to what amount, if any, is payable. If a new beneficiary becomes entitled to monthly benefits on the same earnings record after the increase, the amount of the reduction is redistributed among the new beneficiaries entitled under section 202 of the Act and deducted from their current benefit rate.

# Example:
In March 1981, Chuck became entitled to disability insurance benefits with a primary insurance amount of $362.40 a month. He has a wife and two children who are each entitled to a monthly benefit of $60.40. Chuck is receiving monthly disability compensation from a worker's compensation plan of $410.00. Eighty percent of his average current earnings is $800.00. Because this is higher than the total family benefit ($543.60), $800.00 is the applicable limit in computing the amount of reduction. The amount of monthly benefits payable after the reduction is—
Applicable limit
$800.00
Chuck's monthly disability compensation
−410.00
Total amount payable to Chuck and the family after reduction
$390.00
Amount payable to Chuck
−362.40
Total amount payable to the family
$27.60
$9.20 payable to each family member equals
$27.60
3
In June 1981, the disability benefit rates were raised to reflect an increase in the cost-of-living. Chuck is now entitled to $403.00 a month and each family member is entitled to $67.20 a month (an increase of $6.80 to each family member). The monthly amounts payable after the cost-of-living increase are now $403.00 to Chuck and $16.00 to each family member ($9.20 plus the $6.80 increase).
In September 1981, another child becomes entitled to benefits based on Chuck's earnings record. The monthly amount payable to the family (excluding Chuck) must now be divided by 4:
$6.90 payable to each family member equals
$27.60
4
The June 1981 cost-of-living increase is added to determine the amount payable. Chuck continues to receive $403.00 monthly. Each family member receives a cost-of-living increase of $5.10. Thus, the amount payable to each is $12.00 in September 1981 ($6.90 plus the $5.10 increase). (See Example 2 under (i).)
(k)
Effect of changes in the amount of the public disability benefit.
Any change in the amount of the public disability benefit received will result in a recalculation of the reduction under paragraph (a) and, potentially, an adjustment in the amount of such reduction. If the reduction is made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any increased reduction will be imposed effective with the month after the month the Commissioner received notice of the increase in the public disability benefit (it should be noted that only workers' compensation can cause this reduction). Adjustments due to a decrease in the amount of the public disability benefit will be effective with the actual date the decreased amount was effective. If the reduction is made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any increase or decrease in the reduction will be imposed effective with the actual date of entitlement to the new amount of the public disability benefit.

# Example:
In September 1981, based on a disability which began March 12, 1981, Theresa became entitled to Social Security disability insurance benefits with a primary insurance amount of $445.70 a month. She had previously been entitled to Social Security disability insurance benefits from March 1967 through July 1969. She is receiving a temporary total workers' compensation payment of $227.50 a month. Eighty percent of her average current earnings is $610.50. The amount of monthly disability insurance benefit payable after reduction is—
80 percent of Theresa's average current earnings
$610.50
Theresa's monthly workers' compensation payment
−227.50
Total amount payable to Theresa after reduction
383.00
On November 15, 1981, the Commissioner was notified that Theresa's workers' compensation rate was increased to $303.30 a month effective October 1, 1981. This increase reflected a cost-of-living adjustment granted to all workers' compensation recipients in her State. The reduction to her monthly disability insurance benefit is recomputed to take this increase into account—
80 percent of Theresa's average current earnings
$610.50
Theresa's monthly workers' compensation payment beginning October 1, 1981
−303.30
Total new amount payable to Theresa beginning October 1981 after recalculation of the reduction
$307.20
Effective January, 1, 1982, Theresa's workers' compensation payment is decreased to $280.10 a month when she begins to receive a permanent partial payment. The reduction to her monthly disability insurance benefit is again recalculated to reflect her decreased workers' compensation amount—
80 percent of Theresa's average current earnings
$610.50
Theresa's monthly workers' compensation payment beginning January 1, 1982
−280.10
Total new amount payable to Theresa beginning January 1982 after recalculation of the reduction
$330.40
If, in the above example, Theresa had become entitled to disability insurance benefits in August 1981, the increased reduction to her benefit, due to the October 1, 1981 increase in her workers' compensation payment, would have been imposed beginning with December 1981, the month after the month she notified the Social Security Administration of the increase. The later decrease in her workers' compensation payment would still affect her disability insurance benefit beginning with January 1982.
(l)
Redetermination of benefits
—(1)
General.
In the second calendar year after the year in which reduction under this section in the total of an individual's benefits under section 223 of the Act and any benefits under section 202 of the Act based on his or her wages and self-employment income is first required (in a continuous period of months), and in each third year thereafter, the amount of those benefits which are still subject to reduction under this section are redetermined, provided this redetermination does not result in any decrease in the total amount of benefits payable under title II of the Act on the basis of the workers' wages and self-employment income. The redetermined benefit is effective with the January following the year in which the redetermination is made.
(2)
Average current earnings.
In making the redetermination required by paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the individual's average current earnings (as
defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section) is deemed to be the product of his average current earnings as initially determined under paragraph (c)(3) of this section and:
(i) The ratio of the average of the total wages (as defined in § 404.1049) of all persons for whom wages were reported to the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate for the calendar year before the year in which the redetermination is made, to the average of the total wages of all person reported to the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate for calendar year 1977 or, if later, the calendar year before the year in which the reduction was first computed (but not counting any reduction made in benefits for a previous period of disability); and
(ii) In any case in which the reduction was first computed before 1978, the ratio of the average of the taxable wages reported to the Commissioner of Social Security for the first calendar quarter of 1977 to the average of the taxable wages reported to the Commissioner of Social Security for the first calendar quarter of the calendar year before the year in which the reduction was first computed (but not counting any reduction made in benefits for a previous period of disability). Any amount determined under the preceding two sentences which is not a multiple of $1 is reduced to the next lower multiple of $1.
(3)
Effect of redetermination.
Where the applicable limit on total benefits previously used was 80 percent of the average current earnings, a redetermination under this paragraph may cause an increase in the amount of benefits payable. Also, where the limit previously used was the total family benefit, the redetermination may cause the average current earnings to exceed the total family benefit and thus become the new applicable limit. If for some other reason (such as a statutory increase or recomputation) the benefit has already been increased to a level which equals or exceeds the benefit resulting from a redetermination under this paragraph, no additional increase is made. A redetermination is designed to bring benefits into line with current wage levels when no other change in payments has done so.

# Example:
In October 1978, Alice became entitled to disability insurance benefits with a primary insurance amount of $505.10. Her two children were also entitled to monthly benefits of $189.40 each. Alice was also entitled to monthly disability compensation benefits of $667.30 from the State. Eighty percent of Alice's average current earnings is $1340.80, and that amount is the applicable limit. The amount of monthly benefits payable after the reduction is—
Applicable limit
$1,340.80
Alice's State disability compensation benefit
−667.30
Total benefits payable to Alice and both children after reduction
$673.50
Alice's disability insurance benefit
−505.10
Payable to the children
$168.40
$84.20 payable to each child after reduction equals
$168.40
2
In June 1979 and June 1980, cost-of-living increases in Social Security benefits raise Alice's benefit by $50.10 (to $555.20) and $79.40 (to $634.60) respectively. The children's benefits (before reduction) are each raised by $18.80 (to $208.20) and $29.80 (to $238.00). These increases in Social Security benefits are not subject to the reduction (
i.e.
, offset).
In 1980, Alice's average current earnings are redetermined as required by law. The offset is recalculated, and if the amount payable to the family is higher than the current amount payable to the family, that higher amount becomes payable the following January (
i.e.
, January 1981). The current amount payable to the family after the reduction is recalculated—
Alice's 1978 benefit after reduction
$505.10
Alice's cost-of-living increase in June 1979
+ 50.10
Alice's cost-of-living increase in June 1980
+ 79.40
One child's 1978 benefit after reduction
+ 84.20
That child's cost-of-living increase in June 1979
+ 18.70
That child's cost-of-living increase in June 1980
+ 29.70
The other child's 1978 benefit after reduction
+ 84.20
The other child's cost-of-living increase in June 1979
+ 18.70
The other child's cost-of-living increase in June 1980
+ 29.70
Total amount payable to the family after reduction in January 1981
899.80
The amount payable to the family after reduction is then recalculated using the redetermined average current earnings—
Average current earnings before redetermination
$1,676.00
Redetermination ratio effective for January 1981
× 1.174
Redetermined average current earnings
$1,967.00
× 80%
80% of the redetermined average current earnings
$1,573.60
Alice's State disability compensation benefit
−667.30
Total benefits payable to the family after offset
$906.30
We then compare the total amount currently being paid to the family ($899.80) to the total amount payable after the redetermination ($906.30). In this example, the redetermination yields a higher amount and, therefore, becomes payable the following January (
i.e.
, January 1981). Additional computations are required to determine the amount that will be paid to each family member—
Total benefits payable to the family using the redetermined average current earnings
$906.30
Total cost-of-living increases to both children
−96.80
Balance payable
809.50
Alice's current benefit amount before reduction
−634.60
Payable to the children
174.90
Total cost-of-living increases to both children
+ 96.80
Total payable to children after reduction
271.70
$135.90 (rounded from $135.85) payable to each child equals
$271.70
2
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967; 33 FR 3060, Feb. 16, 1968, as amended at 37 FR 3425, Feb. 16, 1972; 48 FR 37017, Aug. 16, 1983; 48 FR 38814, Aug. 26, 1983; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 81 FR 19033, Apr. 4, 2016]
§ 404.408a
Reduction where spouse is receiving a Government pension.
(a)
General
—(1)
Terms used in this section.
(i)
Government pension
means any monthly periodic benefit (or equivalent) you receive that is based on your Federal, State, or local government employment.
(ii)
Noncovered employment
means Federal, State, or local government employment that Social Security did not cover and for which you did not pay Social Security taxes. For the purposes of this section, we consider your Federal, State, or local government employment to be noncovered employment if you pay only Medicare taxes.
(iii)
Spouse's benefits
are Social Security benefits you receive as a wife, husband, widow(er), mother, father, divorced spouse, or surviving divorced spouse.
(2)
When reduction is required.
We will reduce your spouse's benefit for each month that you receive a government pension based on noncovered employment, unless one of the exceptions in paragraph (b) of this section applies. When we consider whether you receive a government pension based on noncovered employment, we consider the entire month to be a month covered by Social Security if you worked for a Federal, State, or local government employer in a position covered by Social Security for at least 1 day in that month and there was no noncovered employment that month under the same pension plan.
(b)
Exceptions.
The reduction does not apply:
(1) If you are receiving a Government pension based on employment for an interstate instrumentality.
(2) If you received or are eligible to receive a Government pension for one or more months in the period December 1977 through November 1982 and you meet the requirements for Social Security benefits that were applied in January 1977, even though you don't claim benefits, and you don't actually meet the requirements for receiving benefits until a later month. The January 1977 requirements are, for a man, a one-half support test (see paragraph (c) of this section), and, for a woman claiming benefits as a divorced spouse, marriage for at least 20 years to the insured worker. You are considered eligible for a Government pension for any month in which you meet all the requirements for payment except that you are working or have not applied.
(3) If you were receiving or were eligible (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) to receive a Government pension for one or more months before July 1983, and you meet the dependency test of one-half support that was applied to claimants for husband's and widower's benefits in 1977, even though you don't claim benefits, and you don't actually meet the requirements for receiving benefits until a later month. If you meet the exception in this paragraph but you do not meet the exception in paragraph (b)(2), December 1982 is the earliest month for which the reduction will not affect your benefits.
(4) If you would have been eligible for a pension in a given month except for a requirement which delayed eligibility
for such pension until the month following the month in which all other requirements were met, we will consider you to be eligible in that given month for the purpose of meeting one of the exceptions in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section. If you meet an exception solely because of this provision, your benefits will be unreduced for months after November 1984 only.
(5) If, with respect to monthly benefits payable for months after December 1994, you are receiving a Government pension based wholly upon service as a member of a uniformed service, regardless of whether on active or inactive duty and whether covered by social security. However, if the earnings on the last day of employment as a military reservist were not covered, January 1995 is the earliest month for which the reduction will not affect your benefits.
(6) If you are receiving a government pension and the last 60 months of your government employment were covered by both Social Security and the pension plan that provides your government pension.
(i) If the last day of your government employment was after June 30, 2004 and on or before March 2, 2009, we will apply a transitional rule to reduce the last 60-month requirement under the following conditions:
(A) You worked 60 months in Federal, State, or local government employment covered by Social Security before March 2, 2004, and you worked at least 1 month of covered government employment after March 2, 2004, or
(B) You worked fewer than 60 months in government employment covered by Social Security on or before March 2, 2004 and you worked the remaining number of months needed to total 60 months after March 2, 2004. The months that you worked before or after March 2, 2004 do not have to be consecutive.
(ii) We will always reduce your monthly spouse's benefit if you receive a government pension based on noncovered employment and you later go back to work for a Federal, State, or local government, unless:
(A) Your final 60 months of Federal, State, or local government employment were covered by Social Security; and
(B) Both your earlier and later Federal, State, or local government employment were under the same pension plan.
(7) If you are a former Federal employee and you receive a government pension based on work that included at least 60 months in employment covered by Social Security in the period beginning January 1, 1988 and ending with the first month you became entitled to spouse's benefits, whether or not the 60 months are consecutive), and:
(i) You worked in the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), but switched after 1987 to either the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) or the Foreign Service Pension System; or
(ii) You worked in the legislative branch and left CSRS after 1987 or received a lump sum payment from CSRS or another retirement system after 1987.
(8) You were a State or local government employee, or a Federal employee who worked in the CSRS but switched to the FERS before 1988, your last day of service was in covered employment, and
(i) You filed for spouse's benefits before April 1, 2004 and became entitled to benefits based on that filing, or
(ii) Your last day of service was before July 1, 2004,
(c) The
one-half support test.
For a man to meet the January 1977 requirement as provided in the exception in paragraph (b)(2) and for a man or a woman to meet the exception in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, he or she must meet a one-half support test. One-half support is defined in § 404.366 of this part. One-half support must be met at one of the following times:
(1) If the insured person had a period of disability which did not end before he or she became entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits, or died, you must have been receiving at least one-half support from the insured either—
(i) At the beginning of his or her period of disability;
(ii) At the time he or she became entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits; or
(iii) If deceased, at the time of his or her death.
(2) If the insured did not have a period of disability at the time of his or her entitlement or death, you must have been receiving at least one-half support from the insured either—
(i) At the time he or she became entitled to old-age insurance benefits; or
(ii) If deceased, at the time of his or her death.
(d)
Amount and priority of reduction
—(1)
Post-June 1983 government pensions.
(i) If you became eligible for a government pension after June 1983, and you do not meet one of the exceptions in paragraph (b) of this section, we will reduce (to zero, if necessary) your monthly Social Security spouse's benefits by two-thirds of the amount of your government pension.
(ii) If you earned part of your pension based on employment other than Federal, State, or local government employment, we will only use the part of your pension earned in government employment to compute the GPO.
(iii) If the reduction is not a multiple of 10 cents, we will round it to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(2)
Pre-July 1983 government pensions.
(i) If you became eligible for a government pension before July 1983, and do not meet one of the exceptions in paragraph (b) of this section, we will reduce (to zero, if necessary) your monthly Social Security spouse's benefits as follows:
(A) By the full amount of your pension for months before December 1984; and
(B) By two-thirds the amount of your monthly pension for months after November 1984.
(ii) If the reduction is not a multiple of 10 cents, we will round it to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(3)
Reductions for age and simultaneous entitlement.
We will reduce your spouse's benefit, if necessary, for age and for simultaneous entitlement to other Social Security benefits before we reduce it because you are receiving a government pension. In addition, this reduction follows the order of priority stated in § 404.402(b).
(4)
Reduction not a multiple of $1.00.
If the monthly benefit payable to you after the required reduction(s) is not a multiple of $1.00, we will reduce it to the next lower multiple of $1.00 as required by § 404.304(f).
(5)
Lump sum payments.
If the government pension is not paid monthly or is paid in a lump sum, we will allocate the pension on a basis equivalent to a monthly benefit and then reduce the monthly Social Security benefit accordingly.
(i) We will generally obtain information about the number of years covered by a lump-sum payment from the pension plan.
(ii) If one of the alternatives to a lump-sum payment is a life annuity, and we can determine the amount of the monthly annuity, we will base the reduction on that monthly amount.
(iii) If the period or the equivalent monthly pension benefit is not clear, we may determine the reduction period and the equivalent monthly benefit on an individual basis.
(e)
When effective.
This reduction was put into the Social Security Act by the Social Security Amendments of 1977. It only applies to applications for benefits filed in or after December 1977 and only to benefits for December 1977 and later.
[49 FR 41245, Oct. 22, 1984; 50 FR 20902, May 21, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 23052, June 25, 1986; 60 FR 56513, Nov. 9, 1995; 80 FR 34050, June 15, 2015]
§ 404.408b
Reduction of retroactive monthly social security benefits where supplemental security income (SSI) payments were received for the same period.
(a)
When reduction is required.
We will reduce your retroactive social security benefits if—
(1) You are entitled to monthly social security benefits for a month or months before the first month in which those benefits are paid; and
(2) SSI payments (including federally administered State supplementary payments) which were made to you for the same month or months would have been reduced or not made if your social security benefits had been paid when regularly due instead of retroactively.
(b)
Amount of reduction.
Your retroactive monthly social security benefits will be reduced by the amount of the
SSI payments (including federally administered State supplementary payments) that would not have been paid to you, if you had received your monthly social security benefits when they were regularly due instead of retroactively.
(c)
Benefits subject to reduction.
The reduction described in this section applies only to monthly social security benefits. Social security benefits which we pay to you for any month after you have begun receiving recurring monthly social security benefits, and for which you did not have to file a new application, are not subject to reduction. The lump-sum death payment, which is not a monthly benefit, is not subject to reduction.
(d)
Refiguring the amount of the reduction.
We will refigure the amount of the reduction if there are subsequent changes affecting your claim which relate to the reduction period described in paragraph (a) of this section. Refiguring is generally required where there is a change in your month of entitlement or the amount of your social security benefits or SSI payments (including federally administered State supplementary payments) for the reduction period.
(e)
Reimbursement of reduced retroactive monthly social security benefits.
The amount of the reduction will be—
(1) First used to reimburse the States for the amount of any federally administered State supplementary payments that would not have been made to you if the monthly social security benefits had been paid when regularly due instead of retroactively; and
(2) The remainder, if any, shall be covered into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury for the amount of SSI benefits that would not have been paid to you if the monthly social security benefits had been paid to you when regularly due instead of retroactively.
[47 FR 4988, Feb. 3, 1982]
§ 404.409
What is full retirement age?
Full retirement age is the age at which you may receive unreduced old-age, wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's benefits. Full retirement age has been 65 but is being gradually raised to age 67 beginning with people born after January 1, 1938. See § 404.102 regarding determination of age.
(a)
What is my full retirement age for old-age benefits or wife's or husband's benefits?
You may receive unreduced old-age, wife's, or husband's benefits beginning with the month you attain the age shown.
If your birth date is:
Full retirement age is:
Before 1/2/1938
65 years.
1/2/1938—1/1/1939
65 years and 2 months.
1/2/1939—1/1/1940
65 years and 4 months.
1/2/1940—1/1/1941
65 years and 6 months.
1/2/1941—1/1/1942
65 years and 8 months.
1/2/1942—1/1/1943
65 years and 10 months.
1/2/1943—1/1/1955
66 years.
1/2/1955—1/1/1956
66 years and 2 months.
1/2/1956—1/1/1957
66 years and 4 months.
1/2/1957—1/1/1958
66 years and 6 months.
1/2/1958—1/1/1959
66 years and 8 months.
1/2/1959—1/1/1960
66 years and 10 months.
1/2/1960 and later
67 years.
(b)
What is my full retirement age for widow's or widower's benefits?
You may receive unreduced widow's or widower's benefits beginning with the month you attain the age shown.
If your birth date is:
Full retirement age is:
Before 1/2/1912
62 years.
1/2/1912—1/1/1940
65 years.
1/2/1940—1/1/1941
65 years and 2 months.
1/2/1941—1/1/1942
65 years and 4 months.
1/2/1942—1/1/1943
65 years and 6 months.
1/2/1943—1/1/1944
65 years and 8 months.
1/2/1944—1/1/1945
65 years and 10 months.
1/2/1945—1/1/1957
66 years.
1/2/1957—1/1/1958
66 years and 2 months.
1/2/1958—1/1/1959
66 years and 4 months.
1/2/1959—1/1/1960
66 years and 6 months.
1/2/1960—1/1/1961
66 years and 8 months.
1/2/1961—1/1/1962
66 years and 10 months.
1/2/1962 and later
67 years.
(c)
Can I still retire before full retirement age?
You may still elect early retirement. You may receive old-age, wife's or husband's benefits at age 62. You may receive widow's or widower's benefits at age 60. Those benefits will be reduced as explained in § 404.410.
[68 FR 4707, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.410
How does SSA reduce my benefits when my entitlement begins before full retirement age?
Generally your old-age, wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's benefits are reduced if entitlement begins before the month you attain full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409). However, your benefits as a wife or husband are not reduced for any month in which
you have in your care a child of the worker on whose earnings record you are entitled. The child must be entitled to child's benefits. Your benefits as a widow or widower are not reduced below the benefit amount you would receive as a mother or father for any month in which you have in your care a child of the worker on whose record you are entitled. The child must be entitled to child's benefits. Subject to §§ 404.411 through 404.413, reductions in benefits are made in the amounts described.
(a)
How does SSA reduce my old-age benefits?
The reduction in your primary insurance amount is based on the number of months of entitlement prior to the month you attain full retirement age. The reduction is
5/9
of 1 percent for each of the first 36 months and
5/12
of 1 percent for each month in excess of 36.

# Example:
Alex's full retirement age for unreduced benefits is 65 years and 8 months. She elects to begin receiving benefits at age 62. Her primary insurance amount of $980.50 must be reduced because of her entitlement to benefits 44 months prior to full retirement age. The reduction is 36 months at
5/9
of 1 percent and 8 months at
5/12
of 1 percent.
980.50 × 36 ×
5/9
× .01 = $196.10
980.50 × 8 ×
5/12
× .01 = $ 32.68
The two added together equal a total reduction of $228.78. This amount is rounded to $228.80 (the next higher multiple of 10 cents) and deducted from the primary insurance amount. The resulting $751.70 is the monthly benefit payable.
(b)
How does SSA reduce my wife's or husband's benefits?
Your wife's or husband's benefits before any reduction (see §§ 404.304 and 404.333) are reduced first (if necessary) for the family maximum under § 404.403. They are then reduced based on the number of months of entitlement prior to the month you attain full retirement age. This does not include any month in which you have a child of the worker on whose earnings record you are entitled in your care. The child must be entitled to child benefits. The reduction is
25/36
of 1 percent for each of the first 36 months and
5/12
of 1 percent for each month in excess of 36.

# Example:
Sam is entitled to old-age benefits. His spouse Ashley elects to begin receiving wife's benefits at age 63. Her full retirement age for unreduced benefits is 65 and 4 months. Her benefit will be reduced for 28 months of entitlement prior to full retirement age. If her unreduced benefit is $412.40 the reduction will be $412.40 × 28 ×
25/36
× .01. The resulting $80.18 is rounded to $80.20 (the next higher multiple of 10 cents) and subtracted from $412.40 to determine the monthly benefit amount of $332.20.
(c)
How does SSA reduce my widow's or widower's benefits?
Your entitlement to widow's or widower's benefits may begin at age 60 based on age or at age 50 based on disability. Refer to § 404.335 for more information on the requirements for entitlement. Both types are reduced if entitlement begins prior to attainment of full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409).
(1)
Widow's or widower's benefits based on age.
Your widow's or widower's unreduced benefit amount (the worker's primary insurance amount after any reduction for the family maximum under § 404.403), is reduced or further reduced based on the number of months of entitlement prior to the month you attain full retirement age. This does not include any month in which you have in your care a child of the worker on whose earnings record you are entitled. The child must be entitled to child's benefits. The number of months of entitlement prior to full retirement age is multiplied by .285 and then divided by the number of months in the period beginning with the month of attainment of age 60 and ending with the month immediately before the month of attainment of full retirement age.

# Example:
Ms. Bogle is entitled to an unreduced widow benefit of $785.70 beginning at age 64. Her full retirement age for unreduced old-age benefits is 65 years and 4 months. She will receive benefits for 16 months prior to attainment of full retirement age. The number of months in the period from age 60 through full retirement age of 65 and 4 months is 64. The reduction in her benefit is $785.70 × 16 × .285 divided by 64 or $55.98. $55.98 is rounded to the next higher multiple of 10 cents ($56.00) and subtracted from $785.70. The result is a monthly benefit of $729.70.
(2)
Widow's or widower's benefits based on disability.
(i) For months after December 1983, your widow's or widower's benefits are not reduced for months of entitlement prior to age 60. You are deemed to be age 60 in your month of entitlement to disabled widow's or widower's benefits and your benefits are
reduced only under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) For months from January 1973 through December 1983, benefits as a disabled widow or widower were reduced under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The benefits were then subject to an additional reduction of
43/240
of one percent for each month of entitlement prior to age 60 based on disability.
(3)
Widow's or widower's benefits prior to 1973.
For months prior to January 1973 benefits as a widow or widower were reduced only for months of entitlement prior to age 62. The reduction was
5/9
of one percent for each month of entitlement from the month of attainment of age 60 through the month prior to the month of attainment of age 62. There was an additional reduction of
43/198
of one percent for each month of entitlement prior to age 60 based on disability.
(d)
If my benefits are reduced under this section does SSA ever change the reduction?
The reduction computed under paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section may later be adjusted to eliminate reduction for certain months of entitlement prior to full retirement age as provided in § 404.412. For special provisions on reducing benefits for months prior to full retirement age involving entitlement to two or more benefits, see § 404.411.
(e)
Are my widow's or widower's benefits affected if the deceased worker was entitled to old-age benefits?
If the deceased individual was entitled to old-age benefits, see § 404.338 for special rules that may affect your reduced widow's or widower's benefits.
[68 FR 4708, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.411
How are benefits reduced for age when a person is entitled to two or more benefits?
(a)
What is the general rule?
Except as specifically provided in this section, benefits of an individual entitled to more than one benefit will be reduced for months of entitlement before full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409) according to the provisions of § 404.410. Such age reductions are made before any reduction under the provisions of § 404.407.
(b)
How is my disability benefit reduced after entitlement to an old-age benefit or widow's or widower's benefit?
A person's disability benefit is reduced following entitlement to an old-age or widow's or widower's benefit (or following the month in which all conditions for entitlement to the widow's or widower's benefit are met except that the individual is entitled to an old-age benefit which equals or exceeds the primary insurance amount on which the widow's or widower's benefit is based) in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Individuals born January 2, 1928, or later whose disability began January 1, 1990, or later.
When an individual is entitled to a disability benefit for a month after the month in which she or he becomes entitled to an old-age benefit which is reduced for age under § 404.410, the disability benefit is reduced by the amount by which the old-age benefit would be reduced under § 404.410 if she or he attained full retirement age in the first month of the most recent period of entitlement to the disability benefit.
(2)
Individuals born January 2, 1928, or later whose disability began before January 1, 1990, and, all individuals born before January 2, 1928, regardless of when their disability began
—(i)
First entitled to disability in or after the month of attainment of age 62.
When an individual is first entitled to a disability benefit in or after the month in which she or he attains age 62 and for which she or he is first entitled to a widow's or widower's benefit (or would be so entitled except for entitlement to an equal or higher old-age benefit) before full retirement age, the disability benefit is reduced by the larger of:
(A) The amount the disability benefit would have been reduced under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(B) The amount equal to the sum of the amount the widow's or widower's benefit would have been reduced under the provisions of § 404.410 if full retirement age for unreduced benefits were age 62 plus the amount by which the disability benefit would have been reduced under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the benefit were equal to the excess of such benefit over the amount of the widow's or widower's benefit
(without consideration of this paragraph).
(ii)
First entitled to disability before age 62.
When a person is first entitled to a disability benefit for a month before the month in which she or he attains age 62 and she or he is also entitled to a widow's or widower's benefit (or would be so entitled except for entitlement to an equal or higher old-age benefit), the disability benefit is reduced as if the widow or widower attained full retirement age in the first month of her or his most recent period of entitlement to the disability benefits.
(c)
How is my old-age benefit reduced after entitlement to a widow's or widower's benefit?
—(1)
Individual born after January 1, 1928.
The old-age benefit is reduced in accordance with § 404.410(a). There is no further reduction.
(2)
Individual born before January 2, 1928.
The old-age benefit is reduced if, in the first month of entitlement, she or he is also entitled to a widow's or widower's benefit to which she or he was first entitled for a month before attainment of full retirement age or if, before attainment of full retirement age, she or he met all conditions for entitlement to widow's or widower's benefits in or before the first month for which she or he was entitled to old-age benefits except that the old-age benefit equals or exceeds the primary insurance amount on which the widow's or widower's benefit would be based. Under these circumstances, the old-age benefit is reduced by the larger of the following:
(i) The amount by which the old-age benefit would be reduced under the regular age reduction provisions of § 404.410; or
(ii) An amount equal to the sum of:
(A) The amount by which the widow's or widower's benefit would be reduced under § 404.410 for months prior to age 62; and
(B) The amount by which the old-age benefit would be reduced under § 404.410 if it were equal to the excess of the individual's primary insurance amount over the widow's or widower's benefit before any reduction for age (but after any reduction for the family maximum under § 404.403).
(d)
How is my wife's or husband's benefit reduced when I am entitled to a reduced old-age benefit in the same month?
When a person is first entitled to a wife's or husband's benefit in or after the month of attainment of age 62, that benefit is reduced if, in the first month of entitlement, she or he is also entitled to an old-age benefit (but is not entitled to a disability benefit) to which she or he was first entitled before attainment of full retirement age. Under these circumstances, the wife's or husband's benefit is reduced by the sum of:
(1) The amount by which the old-age benefit would be reduced under the provisions of § 404.410; and
(2) The amount by which the spouse benefit would be reduced under the provisions of § 404.410 if it were equal to the excess of such benefit (before any reduction for age but after reduction for the family maximum under § 404.403) over the individual's own primary insurance amount.
(e)
How is my wife's or husband's or widow's or widower's benefit reduced when I am entitled to a reduced disability benefit in the same month?
When a person is first entitled to a spouse or widow's or widower's benefit in or after the month of attainment of age 62 (or in the case of widow's or widower's benefits, age 50) that benefit is reduced if, in the first month of entitlement to that benefit, he or she is also entitled to a reduced disability benefit. Under these circumstances, the wife's or husband's or widow's or widower's benefit is reduced by the sum of:
(1) The amount (if any) by which the disability benefit is reduced under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and
(2) The amount by which the wife's or husband's or widow's or widower's benefit would be reduced under § 404.410 if it were equal to the excess of such benefit (before any reduction for age but after reduction for the family maximum under § 404.403) over the disability benefit (before any reduction under paragraph (b) of this section).
[68 FR 4709, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.412
After my benefits are reduced for age when and how will adjustments to that reduction be made?
(a)
When may adjustment be necessary?
The following months are not counted
for purposes of reducing benefits in accordance with § 404.410;
(1) Months subject to deduction under § 404.415 or § 404.417;
(2) In the case of a wife's or husband's benefit, any month in which she or he had a child of the insured individual in her or his care and for which the child was entitled to child's benefits;
(3) In the case of a wife's or husband's benefit, any month for which entitlement to such benefits is precluded because the insured person's disability ceased (and, as a result, the insured individual's entitlement to disability benefits ended);
(4) In the case of a widow's or widower's benefit, any month in which she or he had in her or his care a child of the deceased insured individual and for which the child was entitled to child's benefits;
(5) In the case of a widow's or widower's benefit, any month before attainment of full retirement age for which she or he was not entitled to such benefits;
(6) In the case of an old-age benefit, any month for which the individual was entitled to disability benefits.
(b)
When is the adjustment made?
We make automatic adjustments in benefits to exclude the months of entitlement described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section from consideration when determining the amount by which such benefits are reduced. Each year we examine beneficiary records to identify when an individual has attained full retirement age and one or more months described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section occurred prior to such age during the period of entitlement to benefits reduced for age. Increases in benefit amounts based upon this adjustment are effective with the month of attainment of full retirement age. In the case of widow's or widower's benefits, this adjustment is made in the month of attainment of age 62 as well as the month of attainment of full retirement age.
[68 FR 4710, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 40122, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.413
After my benefits are reduced for age what happens if there is an increase in my primary insurance amount?
(a)
What is the general rule on reduction of increases?
After an individual's benefits are reduced for age under §§ 404.410 through 404.411, the primary insurance amount on which such benefits are based may subsequently be increased because of a recomputation, a general benefit increase pursuant to an amendment of the Act, or increases based upon a rise in the cost-of-living under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act. When the primary insurance amount increases the monthly benefit amount also increases.
(b)
How are subsequent increases in the primary insurance amount reduced after 1977?
After 1977, when an individual's benefits have been reduced for age and the benefit is increased due to an increase in the primary insurance amount, the amount of the increase to which the individual is entitled is proportionately reduced as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The method of reduction is determined by whether entitlement to reduced benefits began before 1978 or after 1977. When an individual is entitled to more than one benefit which is reduced for age, the rules for reducing the benefit increases apply to each reduced benefit.
(c)
How is the reduction computed for increases after 1977?
—(1)
Entitlement to reduced benefits after 1977.
If an individual becomes entitled after 1977 to a benefit reduced for age, and the primary insurance amount on which the reduced benefit is based is increased, the amount of the increase payable to the individual is reduced by the same percentage as we use to reduce the benefit in the month of initial entitlement. Where the reduced benefit of an individual has been adjusted at full retirement age (age 62 and full retirement age for widows or widowers), any increase to which the individual becomes entitled thereafter is reduced by the adjusted percentage.
(2)
Entitlement to reduced benefits before 1978.
For an individual, who became entitled to a benefit reduced for age before 1978, whose benefit may be increased as a result of an increase in
the primary insurance amount after 1977, we increase the amount of the benefit by the same percentage as the increase in the primary insurance amount.
(d)
How was the reduction computed for increases prior to 1978?
When the individual's primary insurance amount increased, the amount of the increase was reduced separately under §§ 404.410 and 404.411. The separate reduction was based on the number of months from the effective date of the increase through the month of attainment of age 65. This reduced increase amount was then added to the reduced benefit that was in effect in the month before the effective date of the increase. The result was the new monthly benefit amount.
[68 FR 4710, Jan. 30, 2003]
§ 404.415
Deductions because of excess earnings.
(a)
Deductions because of insured individual's earnings.
Under the annual earnings test, we will reduce your monthly benefits (except disability insurance benefits based on the beneficiary's disability) by the amount of your excess earnings (as described in § 404.434), for each month in a taxable year (calendar year or fiscal year) in which you are under full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409(a)).
(b)
Deductions from husband's, wife's, and child's benefits because of excess earnings of the insured individual.
We will reduce husband's, wife's, and child's insurance benefits payable (or deemed payable—see § 404.420) on the insured individual's earnings record because of the excess earnings of the insured individual. However, beginning with January 1985, we will not reduce the benefits payable to a divorced wife or a divorced husband who has been divorced from the insured individual for at least 2 years.
(c)
Deductions because of excess earnings of beneficiary other than the insured.
If benefits are payable to you (or deemed payable—see § 404.420) on the earnings record of an insured individual and you have excess earnings (as described in § 404.430) charged to a month, we will reduce only your benefits for that month under the annual earnings test. Child's insurance benefits payable by reason of being disabled will be evaluated using Substantial Gainful Activity guidelines (as described in § 404.1574 or § 404.1575). This deduction equals the amount of the excess earnings. (See § 404.434 for charging of excess earnings where both the insured individual and you, a beneficiary, have excess earnings.)
[70 FR 28811, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.417
Deductions because of noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States; 45 hour and 7-day work test.
(a)
Deductions because of individual's activity
—(1)
Prior to May 1983.
For months prior to May 1983, a 7-day work test applies in a month before benefit deductions are made for noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States. A deduction is made from any monthly benefit (except disability insurance benefits, child's insurance benefits based on the child's disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on the widow's or widower's disability) payable to an individual for each month in a taxable year beginning after December 1954 in which the beneficiary, while under age 72 (age 70 after December 1982), engages in noncovered remunerative activity (see § 404.418) outside the United States on 7 or more different calendar days. The deduction is for an amount equal to the benefit payable to the individual for that month.
(2)
From May 1983 on.
Effective May 1983, a 45-hour work test applies before a benefit deduction is made for the non-covered remunerative activity performed outside the United States in a month by the type of beneficiary described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Deductions from benefits because of the earnings or work of an insured individual
—(1)
Prior to September 1984.
Where the insured individual entitled to old-age benefits works on 7 or more days in a month prior to September 1984 while under age 72 (age 70 after December 1982), a deduction is made for that month from any:
(i) Wife's, husband's, or child's insurance benefit payable on the insured individual's earnings record; and
(ii) Mother's, father's, or child's insurance benefit based on child's disability, which under § 404.420 is deemed payable on the insured individual's earnings record because of the beneficiary's marriage to the insured individual.
(2)
From September 1984 on.
Effective September 1984, a benefit deduction is made for a month from the benefits described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if the insured individual, while under age 70, has worked in excess of 45 hours in that month.
(3)
Amount of deduction.
The amount of the deduction required by this paragraph (b) is equal to the wife's, husband's or child's benefit.
(4)
From January 1985 on.
Effective January 1985, no deduction will be made from the benefits payable to a divorced wife or a divorced husband who has been divorced from the insured individual for at least 2 years.
[49 FR 24117, June 12, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 11912, Apr. 21, 1986; 52 FR 26145, July 13, 1987]
§ 404.418
“Noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States,” defined.
An individual is engaged in noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States for purposes of deductions described in § 404.417 if:
(a) He performs services outside the United States as an employee and the services do not constitute employment as defined in subpart K of this part and, for taxable years ending after 1955, the services are not performed in the active military or naval service of the United States; or
(b) He carries on a trade or business outside the United States (other than the performance of services as an employee) the net income or loss of which is not includable in computing his net earnings from self-employment (as defined in § 404.1050) for a taxable year and would not be excluded from net earnings from self-employment (see § 404.1052) if the trade or business were carried on in the United States. When used in the preceding sentence with respect to a trade or business, the term
United States
does not include the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and, with respect to taxable years beginning after 1960, Guam or American Samoa, in the case of an alien who is not a resident of the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and, with respect to taxable years beginning after 1960, Guam and American Samoa), and the term
trade or business
shall have the same meaning as when used in section 162 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
§ 404.420
Persons deemed entitled to benefits based on an individual's earnings record.
For purposes of imposing deductions under the annual earnings test (see § 404.415) and the foreign work test (see § 404.417), a person who is married to an old-age insurance beneficiary and who is entitled to a mother's or father's insurance benefit or a child's insurance benefit based on the child's disability (and all these benefits are based on the earnings record of some third person) is deemed entitled to such benefit based on the earnings record of the old-age insurance beneficiary to whom he or she is married. This section is effective for months in any taxable year of the old-age insurance beneficiary that begins after August 1958.
[49 FR 24117, June 12, 1984]
§ 404.421
How are deductions made when a beneficiary fails to have a child in his or her care?
Deductions for failure to have a child in care (as defined in subpart D of this part) are made as follows:
(a)
Wife's or husband's benefit.
A deduction is made from the wife's or husband's benefits to which he or she is entitled for any month if he or she is under full retirement age and does not have in his or her care a child of the insured entitled to child's benefits. However, a deduction is not made for any month in which he or she is age 62 or over, but under full retirement age, and there is in effect a certificate of election for him or her to receive actuarially reduced wife's or husband's benefits for such month (see subpart D of this part).
(b)
Mother's or father's benefits
—(1)
Widow or widower.
A deduction is made from the mother's or father's benefits to which he or she is entitled as the
widow or widower (see subpart D of this part) of the deceased individual upon whose earnings such benefit is based, for any month in which he or she does not have in his or her care a child who is entitled to child's benefits based on the earnings of the deceased insured individual.
(2)
Surviving divorced mother or father.
A deduction is made from the mother's or father's benefits to which he or she is entitled as the surviving divorced mother or father (see subpart D of this part) of the deceased individual upon whose earnings record such benefit is based, for any month in which she or he does not have in care a child of the deceased individual who is her or his son, daughter, or legally adopted child and who is entitled to child's benefits based on the earnings of the deceased insured individual.
(c)
Amount to be deducted.
The amount deducted from the benefits, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, is equal to the amount of the benefits which is otherwise payable for the month in which she or he does not have a child in his or her care.
(d)
When a child is considered not entitled to benefits.
For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a person is considered not entitled to child's benefits for any month in which she or he is age 18 or over and is entitled to child's benefits because she or he is a full-time student at an educational institution. This paragraph applies to benefits for months after December 1964.
[68 FR 4710, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 40122, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.423
Manner of making deductions.
Deductions provided for in §§ 404.415, 404.417, and 404.421 (as modified in § 404.458) are made by withholding benefits (in whole or in part, depending upon the amount to be withheld) for each month in which an event causing a deduction occurred. If the amount to be deducted is not withheld from the benefits payable in the month in which the event causing the deduction occurred, such amount constitutes a
deduction overpayment
and is subject to adjustment or recovery in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of this part.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 68 FR 40122, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.424
Total amount of deductions where more than one deduction event occurs in a month.
If more than one of the deduction events specified in §§ 404.415, 404.417, and 404.421 occurred in any 1 month, each of which would occasion a deduction equal to the benefit for such month, only an amount equal to such benefit is deducted.
§ 404.425
Total amount of deductions where deduction events occur in more than 1 month.
If a deduction event described in §§ 404.415, 404.417, and 404.421 occurs in more than 1 month, the total amount deducted from an individual's benefits is equal to the sum of the deductions for all months in which any such event occurred.
[68 FR 40122, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.428
Earnings in a taxable year.
(a) When we apply the annual earnings test to your earnings as a beneficiary under this subpart (see § 404.415), we count all of your earnings (as defined in § 404.429) for all months of your taxable year even though you may not be entitled to benefits during all months of that year. (See § 404.430 for the rule that applies to the earnings of a beneficiary who attains full retirement age (as described in § 404.409(a))).
(b) Your taxable year is presumed to be a calendar year until you show to our satisfaction that you have a different taxable year. If you are self-employed, your taxable year is a calendar year unless you have a different taxable year for the purposes of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. In either case, the number of months in a taxable year is not affected by:
(1) The date a claim for Social Security benefits is filed;
(2) Attainment of any particular age;
(3) Marriage or the termination of marriage; or
(4) Adoption.
(c) The month of death is counted as a month of the deceased beneficiary's taxable year in determining whether
the beneficiary had excess earnings for the year under § 404.430. For beneficiaries who die after November 10, 1988, we use twelve as the number of months to determine whether the beneficiary had excess earnings for the year under § 404.430.
(d) Wages, as defined in § 404.429(c), are charged as earnings for the months and year in which you rendered the services. Net earnings or net losses from self-employment count as earnings or losses in the year for which such earnings or losses are reportable for Federal income tax purposes.
[70 FR 28811, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.429
Earnings; defined.
(a)
General.
The term “earnings” as used in this subpart (other than as a part of the phrase “net earnings from self-employment”) includes the sum of your wages for services rendered in a taxable year, plus your net earnings from self-employment for the taxable year, minus any net loss from self-employment for the same taxable year.
(b)
Net earnings or net loss from self-employment.
Your net earnings or net loss from self-employment are determined under the provisions in subpart K of this part, except that:
(1) In this section, the following occupations are included in the definition of “trade or business” (although they may be excluded in subpart K):
(i) The performance of the functions of a public office;
(ii) The performance of a service of a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a church in the exercise of his or her ministry or by a member of a religious order in the exercise of duties required by the order;
(iii) The performance of service by an individual in the exercise of his or her profession as a Christian Science practitioner;
(iv) The performance by an individual in the exercise of his or her profession as a doctor of medicine, lawyer, dentist, osteopath, veterinarian, chiropractor, naturopath, or optometrist.
(2) For the sole purpose of the earnings test under this subpart:
(i) If you reach full retirement age, as defined in § 404.409(a), on or before the last day of your taxable year, you will have excluded from your gross earnings from self-employment, your royalties attributable to a copyright or patent obtained before the taxable year in which you reach full retirement age; and
(ii) If you are entitled to insurance benefits under title II of the Act, other than disability insurance benefits or child's insurance benefits payable by reason of being disabled, we will exclude from gross earnings any self-employment income you received in a year after your initial year of entitlement that is not attributable to services you performed after the first month you became entitled to benefits. In this section, services means any significant work activity you performed in the operation or management of a trade, profession, or business which can be related to the income received. If a part of the income you receive in a year is not related to any significant services you performed after the month of initial entitlement, only that part of your income may be excluded from gross earnings for deduction purposes. We count the balance of the income for deduction purposes. Your royalties or other self-employment income is presumed countable for purposes of the earnings test until it is shown to our satisfaction that such income may be excluded under this section.
(3) We do not count as significant services:
(i) Actions you take after the initial month of entitlement to sell a crop or product if it was completely produced in or before the month of entitlement. This rule does not apply to income you receive from a trade or business of buying and selling products produced or made by others; for example, a grain broker.
(ii) Your activities to protect an investment in a currently operating business or activities that are too irregular, occasional, or minor to be considered as having a bearing on the income you receive, such as—
(A) Hiring an agent, manager, or other employee to operate the business;
(B) Signing contracts where your signature is required, so long as the major contract negotiations were handled by others in running the business for you;
(C) Looking over the company's financial records to assess the effectiveness of those agents, managers, or employees in running the business for you;
(D) Personally contacting an old and valued customer solely for the purpose of maintaining good will when such contact has a minimal effect on the ongoing operation of the trade or business; or
(E) Occasionally filling in for an agent, manager, or other employee or partner in an emergency.
(4) In figuring your net earnings or net loss from self-employment, we count all net income or net loss even though:
(i) You did not perform personal services in carrying on the trade or business;
(ii) The net profit was less than $400;
(iii) The net profit was in excess of the maximum amount creditable to your earnings record; or
(iv) The net profit was not reportable for social security tax purposes.
(5) Your net earnings from self-employment is the excess of gross income over the allowable business deductions (allowed under the Internal Revenue Code). Net loss from self-employment is the excess of business deductions (that are allowed under the Internal Revenue Code) over gross income. You cannot deduct, from wages or net earnings from self-employment, expenses in connection with the production of income excluded from gross income under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(c)
Wages.
Wages include the gross amount of your wages rather than the net amount paid after deductions by your employer for items such as taxes and insurance. Wages are defined in subpart K of this part, except that we also include the following types of wages that are excluded in subpart K:
(1) Remuneration in excess of the amounts in the annual wage limitation table in § 404.1047;
(2) Wages of less than the amount stipulated in section § 404.1057 that you receive in a calendar year for domestic service in the private home of your employer, or service not in the course of your employer's trade or business;
(3) Payments for agricultural labor excluded under § 404.1055;
(4) Remuneration, cash and non-cash, for service as a home worker even though the cash remuneration you received is less than the amount stipulated in § 404.1058(a) in a calendar year;
(5) Services performed outside the United States in the Armed Forces of the United States.
(d)
Presumptions concerning wages.
For purposes of this section, when reports received by us show that you received wages (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) during a taxable year, it is presumed that they were paid to you for services rendered in that year unless you present evidence to our satisfaction that the wages were paid for services you rendered in another taxable year. If a report of wages shows your wages for a calendar year, your taxable year is presumed to be a calendar year for purposes of this section unless you present evidence to our satisfaction that your taxable year is not a calendar year.
[70 FR 28812, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.430
Monthly and annual exempt amounts defined; excess earnings defined.
(a)
Monthly and annual exempt amounts.
(1) The earnings test monthly and annual exempt amounts are the amounts of wages and self-employment income which you, as a Social Security beneficiary, may earn in any month or year without part or all of your monthly benefit being deducted because of excess earnings. The monthly exempt amount, (which is
1/12
of the annual exempt amount), applies only in a beneficiary's grace year or years. (See § 404.435(a) and (b)). The annual exempt amount applies to the earnings of each non-grace taxable year prior to the year of full retirement age, as defined in § 404.409(a). A larger “annual” exempt amount applies to the total earnings of the months in the taxable year that precedes the month in which you attain full retirement age. The full annual exempt amount applies to the earnings of these pre-full retirement age months, even though they are earned in less than a year. For beneficiaries using a fiscal year as a taxable
year, the exempt amounts applicable at the end of the fiscal year apply.
(2) We determine the monthly exempt amounts for each year by a method that depends on the type of exempt amount. In each case, the exempt amount so determined must be greater than or equal to the corresponding exempt amount in effect for months in the taxable year in which the exempt amount determination is being made.
(i) To calculate the lower exempt amount (the one applicable before the calendar year of attaining full retirement age) for any year after 1994, we multiply $670 (the lower exempt amount for 1994) by the ratio of the national average wage index for the second prior year to that index for 1992. If the amount so calculated is not a multiple of $10, we round it to the nearest multiple of $10 (
i.e.
, if the amount ends in $5 or more, we round up, otherwise we round down). The annual exempt amount is then 12 times the rounded monthly exempt amount.
(ii) The higher exempt amount (the one applicable in months of the year of attaining full retirement age (as defined in section 404.409(a)) that precede such attainment) was set by legislation (Public Law 104-121) for years 1996-2002. To calculate the higher exempt amount for any year after 2002, we multiply $2,500 (the higher exempt amount for 2002) by the ratio of the national average wage index for the second prior year to that index for 2000. We round the result as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the lower exempt amount.
(iii) The following are the annual and monthly exempt amounts for taxable years 2000 through 2005.
Year
For years through taxable year preceding year of reaching full retirement age
Reduction: $1 for every $2 over the exempt amount
Annual
Monthly
Months of taxable year prior to month of full of retirement age
Reduction: $1 for every $3 over the exempt amount
Annual
Monthly
2000
$10,080
$840
$17,000
$1,417
2001
10,680
890
25,000
2,084
2002
11,280
940
30,000
2,500
2003
11,520
960
30,720
2,560
2004
11,640
970
31,080
2,590
2005
12,000
1,000
31,800
2,650
(b)
Method of determining excess earnings for years after December 1999.
If you have not yet reached your year of full retirement age, your excess earnings for a taxable year are 50 percent of your earnings (as described in § 404.429) that are above the exempt amount. After December 31, 1999, in the taxable year in which you will reach full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409(a)), the annual (and monthly, if applicable) earnings limit applies to the earnings of the months prior to the month in which you reach full retirement age. Excess earnings are 33
1/3
percent of the earnings above the annual exempt amount. Your earnings after reaching the month of full retirement age are not subject to the earnings test.
[70 FR 28813, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.434
Excess earnings; method of charging.
(a)
Months charged.
If you have not yet reached your year of full retirement age, and if your estimated earnings for a year result in estimated excess earnings (as described in § 404.430), we will charge these excess earnings to your full benefit each month from the beginning of the year, until all of the estimated excess earnings have been charged. Excess earnings, however, are not charged to any month described in §§ 404.435 and 404.436.
(b)
Amount of excess earnings charged
—(1)
Insured individual's excess earnings.
For each $1 of your excess earnings we will decrease by $1 the benefits to which you and all others are entitled (or deemed entitled—see § 404.420) on your earnings record. (See § 404.439 where the excess earnings for a
month are less than the total benefits payable for that month.) (See 404.415(b) for the effect on divorced wife's and divorced husband's benefits.)
(2)
Excess earnings of beneficiary other than insured individual.
We will charge a beneficiary, other than the insured, $1 for each $1 of the beneficiary's excess earnings (see § 404.437). These excess earnings, however, are charged only against that beneficiary's own benefits.
(3)
You, the insured individual, and a person entitled (or deemed entitled) on your earnings record both have excess earnings.
If both you and a person entitled (or deemed entitled) on your earnings record have excess earnings (as described in § 404.430), your excess earnings are charged first against the total family benefits payable (or deemed payable) on your earnings record, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Next, the excess earnings of a person entitled on your earnings record are charged against his or her own benefits remaining after part of your excess earnings have been charged against his/her benefits (because of the reduction in the total family benefits payable). See § 404.441 for an example of this process and the manner in which partial monthly benefits are apportioned.
(c)
Earnings test applicability.
Public Law 106-182 eliminated the Social Security earnings test, beginning with the month in which a person attains full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409(a)), for taxable years after 1999. In the year that you reach full retirement age, the annual earnings test amount is applied to the earnings amounts of the months that precede your month of full retirement age. (See § 404.430). The reduction rate for these months is $1 of benefits for every $3 you earned above the earnings limit in these months. The earnings threshold amount will be increased in conjunction with increases in average wages.
[70 FR 28813, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.435
Excess earnings; months to which excess earnings can or cannot be charged; grace year defined.
(a)
Monthly benefits payable.
We will not reduce your benefits on account of excess earnings for any month in which you, the beneficiary—
(1) Were not entitled to a monthly benefit;
(2) Were considered not entitled to benefits (due to non-covered work outside the United States or no child in care, as described in § 404.436);
(3) Were at full retirement age (as described in § 404.409(a));
(4) Were entitled to payment of a disability insurance benefit as defined in § 404.315; (see §§ 404.1592 and 404.1592a(b) which describes the work test if you are entitled to disability benefits);
(5) Are age 18 or over and entitled to a child's insurance benefit based on disability;
(6) Are entitled to a widow's or widower's insurance benefit based on disability; or
(7) Had a non-service month in your grace year (see paragraph (b) of this section). A non-service month is any month in which you, while entitled to retirement or survivors benefits:
(i) Do not work in self-employment (see paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section);
(ii) Do not perform services for wages greater than the monthly exempt amount set for that month (see paragraph (e) of this section and § 404.430); and
(iii) Do not work in non-covered remunerative activity on 7 or more days in a month while outside the United States. A non-service month occurs even if there are no excess earnings in the year.
(b)
Grace year defined.
(1) A beneficiary's initial grace year is the first taxable year in which the beneficiary has a non-service month (see paragraph (a)(7) of this section) in or after the month in which the beneficiary is entitled to a retirement, auxiliary, or survivor's benefit.
(2) A beneficiary may have another grace year each time his or her entitlement to one type of benefit ends and, after a break in entitlement of at least one month, the beneficiary becomes entitled to a different type of retirement or survivors benefit. The new grace year would then be the taxable year in which the first non-service month occurs after the break in entitlement.
(3) For purposes of determining whether a given year is a beneficiary's grace year, we will not count as a non-service month, a month that occurred while the beneficiary was entitled to disability benefits under section 223 of the Social Security Act or as a disabled widow, widower, or child under section 202.
(4) A beneficiary entitled to child's benefits, to spouse's benefits before age 62 (entitled only by reason of having a child in his or her care), or to mother's or father's benefits is entitled to a termination grace year in any year the beneficiary's entitlement to these types of benefits terminates. This provision does not apply if the termination is because of death or if the beneficiary is entitled to a Social Security benefit for the month following the month in which the entitlement ended. The beneficiary is entitled to a termination grace year in addition to any other grace year(s) available to him or her.

# Example 1:
Don, age 62, will retire from his regular job in April of next year. Although he will have earned $15,000 for January-April of that year and plans to work part time, he will not earn over the monthly exempt amount after April. Don's taxable year is the calendar year. Since next year will be the first year in which he has a non-service month while entitled to benefits, it will be his grace year and he will be entitled to the monthly earnings test for that year only. He will receive benefits for all months in which he does not earn over the monthly exempt amount (May-December) even though his earnings have substantially exceeded the annual exempt amount. However, in the years that follow, up to the year of full retirement age, only the annual earnings test will be applied if he has earnings that exceed the annual exempt amount, regardless of his monthly earnings amounts.

# Example 2:
Marion was entitled to mother's insurance benefits from 1998 because she had a child in her care. Because she had a non-service month in 1998, 1998 was her initial grace year. Marion's child turned 16 in May 2000, and the child's benefits terminated in April 2000. Marion's entitlement to mother's benefits also terminated in April 2000. Since Marion's entitlement did not terminate by reason of her death and she was not entitled to another type of Social Security benefit in the month after her entitlement to a mother's benefit ended, she is entitled to a termination grace year for 2000, the year in which her entitlement to mother's insurance benefits terminated. She applied for and became entitled to widow's insurance benefits effective February 2001. Because there was a break in entitlement to benefits of at least one month before entitlement to another type of benefit, 2001 will be a subsequent grace year if Marion has a non-service month in 2001.
(c)
You worked in self-employment.
You are considered to have worked in self-employment in any month in which you performed substantial services (see § 404.446) in the operation of a trade or business (or in a combination of trades and businesses if there are more than one), as an owner or partner even though you had no earnings or net earnings resulting from your services during the month.
(d)
Presumption regarding work in self-employment.
You are presumed to have worked in self-employment in each month of your taxable year until you show to our satisfaction that in a particular month you did not perform substantial services (see § 404.446(c)) in any trades and businesses from which you derived your annual net income or loss (see § 404.429).
(e)
Presumption regarding services for wages.
You are presumed to have performed services in any month for wages (as defined in § 404.429) of more than the applicable monthly exempt amount in each month of the year, until you show to our satisfaction that you did not perform services for wages in that month that exceeded the monthly exempt amount.
[70 FR 28814, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.436
Excess earnings; months to which excess earnings cannot be charged because individual is deemed not entitled to benefits.
Under the annual earnings test, excess earnings (as described in § 404.430) are not charged to any month in which an individual is deemed not entitled to a benefit. A beneficiary (
i.e.
, the insured individual or any person entitled or deemed entitled on the individual's earnings record) is deemed not entitled to a benefit for a month if he is subject to a deduction for that month because of:
(a) Engaging in noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States (as described in §§ 404.417 and 404.418); or
(b) Failure to have a child in his or her care (as described in § 404.421).
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 38 FR 9429, Apr. 16, 1973; 38 FR 17716, July 3, 1973; 43 FR 8133, Feb. 28, 1978; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.437
Excess earnings; benefit rate subject to deductions because of excess earnings.
We will further reduce your benefits (other than a disability insurance benefit) because of your excess earnings (see § 404.430), after your benefits may have been reduced because of the following:
(a) The family maximum (see §§ 404.403 and 404.404), which applies to entitled beneficiaries remaining after exclusion of beneficiaries deemed not entitled under § 404.436 (due to a deduction for engaging in non-covered remunerative activity outside the United States or failure to have a child in one's care);
(b) Your entitlement to benefits (see § 404.410) for months before you reach full retirement age (see § 404.409(a)) (this applies only to old-age, wife's, widow's, widower's or husband's benefits);
(c) Your receipt of benefits on your own earnings record, which reduces (see § 404.407) your entitlement (or deemed entitlement; see § 404.420) to benefits on another individual's earnings record; and
(d) Your entitlement to benefits payable (or deemed payable) to you based on the earnings record of an individual entitled to a disability insurance benefit because of that individual's entitlement to workers' compensation (see § 404.408).
[70 FR 28814, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.439
Partial monthly benefits; excess earnings of the individual charged against his benefits and the benefits of persons entitled (or deemed entitled) to benefits on his earnings record.
Deductions are made against the total family benefits where the excess earnings (as described in § 404.430) of an individual entitled to old-age insurance benefits are charged to a month and require deductions in an amount less than the total family benefits payable on his earnings record for that month (including the amount of a mother's or child's insurance benefit payable to a spouse who is deemed entitled on the individual's earnings record—see § 404.420). The difference between the total benefits payable and the deductions made under the annual earnings test for such month is paid (if otherwise payable under title II of the Act) to each person in the proportion that the benefit to which each is entitled (before the application of the reductions described in § 404.403 for the family maximum, § 404.407 for entitlement to more than one type of benefit, and section 202(q) of the Act for entitlement to benefits before retirement age) and before the application of § 404.304(f) to round to the next lower dollar bears to the total of the benefits to which all of them are entitled, except that the total amount payable to any such person may not exceed the benefits which would have been payable to that person if none of the insured individual's excess earnings had been charged to that month.

# Example:
A is entitled to an old-age insurance benefit of $165 and his wife is entitled to $82.50 before rounding, making a total of $247.50. After A's excess earnings have been charged to the appropriate months, there remains a partial benefit of $200 payable for October, which is apportioned as follows:
Original benefit
Fraction of original
Benefit
1
A
$165
2/3
$133
Wife
82.50
1/3
66
Total
247.50
199
1
After deductions for excess earnings and after rounding per § 404.304(f).
[38 FR 9429, Apr. 16, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 17717, July 3, 1973; 43 FR 8133, Feb. 28, 1978; 48 FR 46149, Oct. 11, 1983]
§ 404.440
Partial monthly benefits; pro-rated share of partial payment exceeds the benefit before deduction for excess earnings.
Where, under the apportionment described in § 404.439, a person's prorated share of the partial benefit exceeds the benefit rate to which he was entitled before excess earnings of the insured individual were charged, such person's share of the partial benefit is reduced to the amount he would have been paid
had there been no deduction for excess earnings (see example). The remainder of the partial benefit is then paid to other persons eligible to receive benefits in the proportion that the benefit of each such other person bears to the total of the benefits to which all such other persons are entitled (before reduction for the family maximum). Thus, if only two beneficiaries are involved, payment is made to one as if no deduction had been imposed; and the balance of the partial benefit is paid to the other. If three or more beneficiaries are involved, however, reapportionment of the excess of the beneficiary's share of the partial benefit over the amount he would have been paid without the deduction is made in proportion to his original entitlement rate (before reduction for the family maximum). If the excess amount involved at any point totals less than $1, it is not reapportioned; instead, each beneficiary is paid on the basis of the last calculation.

# Example:
Family maximum is $150. Insured individual's excess earnings charged to the month are $25. The remaining $125 is prorated as partial payment.
Original benefit
Fraction of original total benefit
Benefit after deductions for excess earnings but before reduction for family maximum
Benefit reduced for maximum but without deductions for excess earnings
Benefit payable after both deductions and reductions (and rounded)
Insured Individual
$100
2/5
50
100.00
75
Wife
50
1/5
25
16.60
16
Child
50
1/5
25
16.60
16
Child
50
1/5
25
16.60
16
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 48 FR 46149, Oct. 11, 1983]
§ 404.441
Partial monthly benefits; insured individual and another person entitled (or deemed entitled) on the same earnings record both have excess earnings.
Where both the insured individual and another person entitled (or deemed entitled) on the same earnings record have excess earnings (as described in § 404.430), their excess earnings are charged, and their partial monthly benefit is apportioned, as follows:

# Example:
M and his wife are initially entitled to combined total benefits of $264 per month based on M's old-age insurance benefit of $176. For the taxable year in question, M's excess earnings were $1,599 and his wife's excess earnings were $265. Both were under age 65. M had wages of more than $340 in all months of the year except February, while his wife had wages of more than $340 in all months of the year. After M's excess earnings have been charged to the appropriate months (all months through July except February), there remains a partial benefit payment for August of $249, which is allocated to M and his wife in the ratio that the original benefit of each bears to the sum of their original benefits: $166 and $83. His wife's excess earnings are charged against her full benefit for February ($88), her partial benefit for August ($83), her full benefit for September, and from $6 of her October benefit, leaving an $82 benefit payable to her for that month.
[48 FR 46149, Oct. 11, 1983]
§ 404.446
Definition of “substantial services” and “services.”
(a)
General.
In general, the substantial services test will be applicable only in a grace year (including a termination grace year) as defined in § 404.435(c)(1). It is a test of whether, in view of all the services rendered by the individual and the surrounding circumstances, the individual reasonably can be considered retired in the month in question. In determining whether an individual has or has not performed substantial services in any month, the following factors are considered:
(1) The amount of time the individual devoted to all trades and businesses;
(2) The nature of the services rendered by the individual;
(3) The extent and nature of the activity performed by the individual before he allegedly retired as compared with that performed thereafter;
(4) The presence or absence of an adequately qualified paid manager, partner, or family member who manages the business;
(5) The type of business establishment involved;
(6) The amount of capital invested in the trade or business; and
(7) The seasonal nature of the trade or business.
(b)
Individual engaged in more than one trade or business.
When an individual, in any month, performs services in more than one trade or business, his services in all trades or businesses are considered together in determining whether he performed substantial services in self-employment in such month.
(c)
Evidentiary requirements.
An individual who alleges that he did not render substantial services in any month, or months, shall submit detailed information about the operation of the trades or businesses, including the individual's activities in connection therewith. When requested to do so by the Administration, the individual shall also submit such additional statements, information, and other evidence as the Administration may consider necessary for a proper determination of whether the individual rendered substantial services in self-employment. Failure of the individual to submit the requested statements, information, and other evidence is a sufficient basis for a determination that the individual rendered substantial services in self-employment during the period in question.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 47 FR 46691, Oct. 20, 1982]
§ 404.447
Evaluation of factors involved in substantial services test.
In determining whether an individual's services are substantial, consideration is given to the following factors:
(a)
Amount of time devoted to trades or businesses.
Consideration is first given to the amount of time the self-employed individual devotes to all trades or businesses, the net income or loss of which is includable in computing his earnings as defined in § 404.429. For the purposes of this paragraph, the time devoted to a trade or business includes all the time spent by the individual in any activity, whether physical or mental, at the place of business or elsewhere in furtherance of such trade or business. This includes the time spent in advising and planning the operation of the business, making business contacts, attending meetings, and preparing and maintaining the facilities and records of the business. All time spent at the place of business which cannot reasonably be considered unrelated to business activities is considered time devoted to the trade or business. In considering the weight to be given to the time devoted to trades or businesses the following rules are applied:
(1)
Forty-five hours or less in a month devoted to trade or business.
Where the individual establishes that the time devoted to his trades and businesses during a calendar month was not more than 45 hours, the individual's services in that month are not considered substantial unless other factors (see paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section) make such a finding unreasonable. For example, an individual who worked only 15 hours in a month might nevertheless be found to have rendered substantial services if he was managing a sizable business or engaging in a highly skilled occupation. However, the services of less than 15 hours rendered in all trades and businesses during a calendar month are not substantial.
(2)
More than 45 hours in a month devoted to trades and businesses.
Where an individual devotes more than 45 hours to all trades and businesses during a calendar month, it will be found that the individual's services are substantial unless it is established that the individual could reasonably be considered retired in the month and, therefore, that such services were not, in fact, substantial.
(b)
Nature of services rendered.
Consideration is also given to the nature of the services rendered by the individual in any case where a finding that the individual was retired would be unreasonable if based on time alone (see paragraph (a) of this section). The more highly skilled and valuable his services in self-employment are, the more likely the individual rendering such services could not reasonably be considered retired. The performance of services regularly also tends to show that the individual has not retired. Services are considered in relation to the technical and management needs of
the business in which they are rendered. Thus, skilled services of a managerial or technical nature may be so important to the conduct of a sizable business that such services would be substantial even though the time required to render the services is considerably less than 45 hours.
(c)
Comparison of services rendered before and after retirement.
Where consideration of the amount of time devoted to a trade or business (see paragraph (a) of this section) and the nature of services rendered (see paragraph (b) of this section) is not sufficient to establish whether an individual's services were substantial, consideration is given to the extent and nature of the services rendered by the individual before his
retirement,
as compared with the services performed during the period in question. A significant reduction in the amount or importance of services rendered in the business tends to show that the individual is retired; absence of such reduction tends to show that the individual is not retired.
(d)
Setting in which services performed.
Where consideration of the factors described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section is not sufficient to establish that an individual's services in self-employment were or were not substantial, all other factors are considered. The presence or absence of a capable manager, the kind and size of the business, the amount of capital invested and whether the business is seasonal, as well as any other pertinent factors, are considered in determining whether the individual's services are such that he can reasonably be considered retired.
§ 404.450
Required reports of work outside the United States or failure to have care of a child.
(a)
Beneficiary engaged in noncovered remunerative activity; report by beneficiary.
Any individual entitled to a benefit which is subject to a deduction in that month because of noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States (see § 404.417) shall report the occurrence of such an event to the Social Security Administration before the receipt and acceptance of a benefit for the second month following the month in which such event occurred.
(b)
Beneficiary receiving wife's, husband's, mother's or father's insurance benefits does not have care of a child; report by beneficiary.
Any person receiving wife's, husband's, mother's, or father's insurance benefits which are subject to a deduction (as described in § 404.421) because he or she did not have a child in his or her care shall report the occurrence of such an event to the Social Security Administration before the receipt and acceptance of a benefit for the second month following the month in which the deduction event occurred.
(c)
Report required by person receiving benefits on behalf of another.
Where a person is receiving benefits on behalf of a beneficiary (see subpart U of this part) it is his duty to make the report to the Administration required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, on behalf of the beneficiary.
(d)
Report; content and form.
A report required under the provisions of this section shall be filed with the Social Security Administration. (See § 404.614 of this part for procedures concerning place of filing and date of receipt of such a report.) The report should be made on a form prescribed by the Administration and in accordance with instructions, printed thereon or attached thereto, as prescribed by the Administration. Prescribed forms may be obtained at any office of the Administration. If the prescribed form is not used, the report should be properly identified (e.g., show the name and social security claim number of the beneficiary about whom the report is made), describe the events being reported, tell when the events occurred, furnish any other pertinent data (e.g., who has care of the children), and be properly authenticated (e.g., bear the signature and address of the beneficiary making the report or the person reporting on his behalf). The report should contain all the information needed for a proper determination of whether a deduction applies and, if it does, the period for which such deductions should be made.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 49 FR 24117, June 12, 1984; 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986; 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.451
Penalty deductions for failure to report within prescribed time limit noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child.
(a)
Penalty for failure to report.
If an individual (or the person receiving benefits on his behalf) fails to comply with the reporting obligations of § 404.450 within the time specified in § 404.450 and it is found that good cause for such failure does not exist (see § 404.454), a penalty deduction is made from the individual's benefits in addition to the deduction described in § 404.417 (relating to noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States) or § 404.421 (relating to failure to have care of a child).
(b)
Determining amount of penalty deduction.
The amount of the penalty deduction for failure to report noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child within the prescribed time is determined as follows:
(1)
First failure to make timely report.
The penalty deduction for the first failure to make a timely report is an amount equal to the individual's benefit or benefits for the first month for which the deduction event was not reported timely.
(2)
Second failure to make timely report.
The penalty deduction for the second failure to make a timely report is an amount equal to twice the amount of the individual's benefit or benefits for the first month for which the deduction event in the second failure period was not reported timely.
(3)
Subsequent failures to make timely reports.
The penalty deduction for the third or subsequent failure to file a timely report is an amount equal to three times the amount of the individual's benefit or benefits for the first month for which the deduction event in the third failure period was not reported timely.
(c)
Determining whether a failure to file a timely report is first, second, third, or subsequent failure
—(1)
Failure period.
A failure period runs from the date of one delinquent report (but initially starting with the date of entitlement to monthly benefits) to the date of the next succeeding delinquent report, excluding the date of the earlier report and including the date of the later report. The failure period includes each month for which succeeding delinquent report, excluding a report becomes overdue during a failure period, but it does not include any month for which a report is not yet overdue on the ending date of such period. If
good cause
(see § 404.454) is found for the entire period, the period is not regarded as a failure period.
(2)
First failure.
When no penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has previously been imposed against the beneficiary for failure to report noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or for failure to report not having care of a child, the earliest month in the first failure period for which a report is delinquent and for which
good cause
(see § 404.454) for failure to make the required report is not found is considered to be the first failure.
(3)
Second failure.
After one penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has been imposed against the beneficiary, the first month for which a report is delinquent in the second failure period is considered to be the second failure.
(4)
Third and subsequent failures.
After a second penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has been imposed against the beneficiary, the first month for which a report is delinquent in the third failure period is considered to be the third failure. Subsequent failures will be determined in the same manner.

# Example:
M became entitled in January 1966 to mother's benefits; these benefits are not payable for any month in which the mother does not have a child in her care. M accepted benefits for each month from January 1966 through June 1967. In July 1967 she reported that she had not had a child in her care in January 1967. As she was not eligible for a benefit for any month in which she did not have a child in her care, M's July 1967 benefit was withheld to recover the overpayment she had received for January 1967, and the next payment she received was for August 1967. No penalty was imposed for her failure to make a timely report of the deduction event that occurred in January 1967 because it was determined that
good cause
existed.
In March 1968 M reported that she had not had a child in her care in September or October 1967; however, she had accepted benefit
payments for each month from August 1967 through February 1968. Her benefits for March and April 1968 were withheld to recover the overpayment for September and October 1967. Also, it was determined that
good cause
was not present for M's failure to make a timely report of the deduction event that had occurred in September 1967. A penalty equal to her benefit for September 1967 was deducted from M's May 1968 payment since this was her
first failure
to report not having a child in her care. Payments to her then were continued.
On November 4, 1968, it was learned that M had not had a child in her care in November 1967 or in June, July, or August 1968 although she had accepted benefits for June through October 1968. Consequently, M's benefits for November 1968 through February 1969 were withheld to recover the 4 months' overpayment she received for months in which she did not have a child in her care. In addition, it was determined that
good cause
was not present for M's failure to report the deduction events, and a penalty was imposed equal to twice the amount of M's benefit for the month of June 1968. This was M's
second failure
to report not having a child in her care. No further penalty applied for November 1967 because that month was included in M's
first-failure
period.
(5)
Penalty deductions imposed under § 404.453 not considered.
A failure to make a timely report of earnings as required by § 404.452 for which a penalty deduction is imposed under § 404.453 is not counted as a failure to report in determining the first or subsequent failure to report noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or not having care of a child.
(d)
Limitation on amount of penalty deduction.
Notwithstanding the provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of the penalty deduction imposed for failure to make a timely report of noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or for failure to report not having care of a child may not exceed the number of months in that failure period for which the individual received and accepted a benefit and for which a deduction is imposed by reason of his noncovered remunerative activity outside the United States or failure to have care of a child. (See § 404.458 for other limitations on the amount of the penalty deduction.)
[38 FR 3596, Feb. 8, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 9430, Apr. 16, 1973]
§ 404.452
Reports to Social Security Administration of earnings; wages; net earnings from self-employment.
(a)
Reporting requirements and conditions under which a report of earnings, that is, wages and/or net earnings from self-employment, is required.
(1) If you have not reached full retirement age (see § 404.409(a)) and you are entitled to a monthly benefit, other than only a disability insurance benefit, you are required to report to us the total amount of your earnings (as defined in § 404.429) for each taxable year. This report will enable SSA to pay you accurate benefits and avoid both overpayments and underpayments.
(2) If your wages and/or net earnings from self-employment in any month(s) of the year are below the allowable amount (see §§ 404.446 and 404.447), your report should include this information in order to establish your grace year (see § 404.435) and possible eligibility for benefits for those months.
(3) Your report to us for a taxable year should be filed on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the close of the taxable year; for example, April 15 when the beneficiary's taxable year is a calendar year. An income tax return or form W-2, filed timely with the Internal Revenue Service, may serve as the report required to be filed under the provisions of this section, where the income tax return or form W-2 shows the same wages and/or net earnings from self-employment that must be reported to us. Although we may accept W-2 information and special payment information from employers, you still have primary responsibility for making sure that the earnings we use for deduction purposes are correct. If there is a valid reason for a delay, we may grant you an extension of up to 4 months to file this report.
(4) You are not required to report to us if:
(i) You reached full retirement age before the first month of your entitlement to benefits; or
(ii) Your benefit payments were suspended under the provisions described in § 404.456 for all months of a taxable year before the year of full retirement age, or for all months prior to your full retirement age in the full retirement age year, unless you are entitled to
benefits as an auxiliary or survivor and your benefits are reduced for any month in the taxable year because of earnings and there is another person entitled to auxiliary or survivor's benefits on the same record, but living in a different household.
(b)
Report required by person receiving benefits on behalf of another.
When you receive benefits as a representative payee on behalf of a beneficiary (see subpart U of this part), it is your duty to report any earnings of the beneficiary to us.
(c)
Information required.
If you are the beneficiary, your report should show your name, address, Social Security number, the taxable year for which the report is made, and the total amount of your wages and/or net earnings from self employment during the taxable year. If you are a representative payee, your report should show the name, address, and Social Security number of the beneficiary, the taxable year for which the report is made, and the total earnings of the beneficiary, as well as your name, address, and Social Security number.
(d)
Requirement to furnish requested information.
You, the beneficiary (or the person reporting on his/her behalf) are required to furnish any other information about earnings and services that we request for the purpose of determining the correct amount of benefits payable for a taxable year (see § 404.455).
(e)
Extension of time for filing report
—(1)
Request for extension to file report.
Your request for an extension of time, or the request of your authorized agent, must be in writing and must be filed at a Social Security Administration office before your report is due. Your request must include the date, your name, the Social Security number of the beneficiary, the name and Social Security number of the person filing the request if other than the beneficiary, the year for which your report is due, the amount of additional time requested, the reason why you require this extension (see § 404.454), and your signature.
(2)
Evidence that extension of time has been granted.
If you do not receive written approval of an extension of time for making your report of earnings, it will be presumed that no extension of time was granted. In such case, if you do not file on time, you will need to establish that you had good cause (§ 404.454) for filing your report after the normal due date.
[70 FR 28815, May 19, 2005]
§ 404.453
Penalty deductions for failure to report earnings timely.
(a)
Penalty for failure to report earnings; general.
Penalty deductions are imposed against an individual's benefits, in addition to the deductions required because of his excess earnings (see § 404.415), if:
(1) He fails to make a timely report of his earnings as specified in § 404.452 for a taxable year beginning after 1954;
(2) It is found that good cause for failure to report earnings timely (see § 404.454) does not exist;
(3) A deduction is imposed because of his earnings (see § 404.415) for that year; and
(4) He received and accepted any payment of benefits for that year.
(b)
Determining amount of penalty deduction.
The amount of the penalty deduction for failure to report earnings for a taxable year within the prescribed time is determined as follows:
(1)
First failure to file timely report.
The penalty deduction for the first failure to file a timely report is an amount equal to the individual's benefit or benefits for the last month for which he was entitled to such benefit or benefits during the taxable year, except that with respect to any deductions imposed on or after January 2, 1968, if the amount of the deduction imposed for the taxable year is less than the benefit or benefits for the last month of the taxable year for which he was entitled to a benefit under section 202 of the Act, the penalty deduction is an amount equal to the amount of the deduction imposed but not less than $10.
(2)
Second failure to file timely report.
The penalty deduction for the second failure to file a timely report is an amount equal to twice the amount of the individual's benefit or benefits for the last month for which he was entitled to such benefit or benefits during such taxable year.
(3)
Subsequent failures to file timely reports.
The penalty deduction for the
third or subsequent failure to file a timely report is an amount equal to three times the amount of the individual's benefit or benefits for the last month for which he was entitled to such benefit or benefits during such taxable year.
(c)
Determining whether a failure to file a timely report is first, second, or subsequent failure
—(1)
No prior failure.
Where no penalty deduction under this section has previously been imposed against the beneficiary for failure to make a timely report of his earnings, all taxable years (and this may include 2 or more years) for which a report of earnings is overdue as of the date the first delinquent report is made are included in the first failure. The latest of such years for which
good cause
for failure to make the required report (see § 404.454) is not found is considered the first failure to file a timely report.

# Example:
X became entitled to benefits in 1964 and had reportable earnings for 1964, 1965, and 1966. He did not make his annual reports for those years until July 1967. At that time it was found that 1966 was the only year for which he has good cause for not making a timely report of his earnings. Since all taxable years for which a report is overdue as of the date of the first delinquent report are included in the first failure period, it was found that his first failure to make a timely report was for 1965. The penalty is equal to his December 1965 benefit rate. If good cause had also been found for both 1965 and 1964, then X would have
no prior failure
within the meaning of this subsection.
(2)
Second and subsequent failures.
After one penalty deduction under paragraph (b) of this section has been imposed against an individual, each taxable year for which a timely report of earnings is not made (and the count commences with reports of earnings which become delinquent after the date the first delinquent report described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section was made), and for which
good cause
for failure to make the required report is not found, is considered separately in determining whether the failure is the second or subsequent failure to report timely.

# Example:
Y incurred a penalty deduction for not making his 1963 annual report until July 1964. In August 1966 it was found that he had not made a timely report of either his 1964 or 1965 earnings, and good cause was not present with respect to either year. The penalty for 1964 is equal to twice his benefit rate for December 1964. The penalty for 1965 is equal to three times his benefit rate for December 1965.
(3)
Penalty deduction imposed under § 404.451 not considered.
A failure to make a report as required by § 404.450, for which a penalty deduction is imposed under § 404.451, is not counted as a failure to report in determining, under this section, whether a failure to report earnings or wages is the first or subsequent failure to report.
(d)
Limitation on amount of penalty deduction.
Notwithstanding the provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of the penalty deduction imposed for failure to file a timely report of earnings for a taxable year may not exceed the number of months in that year for which the individual received and accepted a benefit and for which deductions are imposed by reason of his earnings for such year. (See § 404.458 for other limitations on the amount of the penalty deduction.)
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 38 FR 3597, Feb. 8, 1973; 38 FR 9431, Apr. 16, 1973]
§ 404.454
Good cause for failure to make required reports.
(a)
General.
The failure of an individual to make a timely report under the provisions described in §§ 404.450 and 404.452 will not result in a penalty deduction if the individual establishes to the satisfaction of the Administration that his failure to file a timely report was due to good cause. Before making any penalty determination as described in §§ 404.451 and 404.453, the individual shall be advised of the penalty and good cause provisions and afforded an opportunity to establish good cause for failure to report timely. The failure of the individual to submit evidence to establish good cause within a specified time may be considered a sufficient basis for a finding that good cause does not exist (see § 404.705). In determining whether good cause for failure to report timely has been established by the individual, consideration is given to whether the failure to report within the proper time limit was the result of untoward circumstances, misleading action of the Social Security Administration, confusion as to
the requirements of the Act resulting from amendments to the Act or other legislation, or any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) the individual may have. For example,
good cause
may be found where failure to file a timely report was caused by:
(1) Serious illness of the individual, or death or serious illness in his immediate family;
(2) Inability of the individual to obtain, within the time required to file the report, earnings information from his employer because of death or serious illness of the employer or one in the employer's immediate family; or unavoidable absence of his employer; or destruction by fire or other damage of the employer's business records;
(3) Destruction by fire, or other damage, of the individual's business records;
(4) Transmittal of the required report within the time required to file the report, in good faith to another Government agency even though the report does not reach the Administration until after the period for reporting has expired;
(5) Unawareness of the statutory provision that an annual report of earnings is required for the taxable year in which the individual attained age 72 provided his earnings for such year exceeded the applicable amount, e.g., $1,680 for a 12-month taxable year ending after December 1967;
(6) Failure on the part of the Administration to furnish forms in sufficient time for an individual to complete and file the report on or before the date it was due, provided the individual made a timely request to the Administration for the forms;
(7) Belief that an extension of time for filing income tax returns granted by the Internal Revenue Service was also applicable to the annual report to be made to the Social Security Administration;
(8) Reliance upon a written report to the Social Security Administration made by, or on behalf of, the beneficiary before the close of the taxable year, if such report contained sufficient information about the beneficiary's earnings or work, to require suspension of his benefits (see § 404.456) and the report was not subsequently refuted or rescinded; or
(9) Failure of the individual to understand reporting responsibilities due to his or her physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitation(s).
(b)
Notice of determination.
In every case in which it is determined that a penalty deduction should be imposed, the individual shall be advised of the penalty determination and of his reconsideration rights. If it is found that good cause for failure to file a timely report does not exist, the notice will include an explanation of the basis for this finding; the notice will also explain the right to partial adjustment of the overpayment, in accordance with the provisions of § 404.502(c).
(c)
Good cause for subsequent failure.
Where circumstances are similar and an individual fails on more than one occasion to make a timely report, good cause normally will not be found for the second or subsequent violation.
[38 FR 3597, Feb. 8, 1973, as amended at 43 FR 8133, Feb. 28, 1978; 59 FR 1634, Jan. 12, 1994]
§ 404.455
Request by Social Security Administration for reports of earnings and estimated earnings; effect of failure to comply with request.
(a)
Request by Social Security Administration for report during taxable year; effect of failure to comply.
The Social Security Administration may, during the course of a taxable year, request a beneficiary to estimate his or her earnings (as defined in § 404.429) for the current taxable year and for the next taxable year, and to furnish any other information about his or her earnings that the Social Security Administration may specify. If a beneficiary fails to comply with a request for an estimate of earnings for a taxable year, the beneficiary's failure, in itself, constitutes justification under section 203(h) of the Act for a determination that it may reasonably be expected that the beneficiary will have deductions imposed under the provisions described in § 404.415, due to his or her earnings for that taxable year. Furthermore, the failure of the beneficiary to comply with a request for an estimate of earnings for a taxable year will, in itself, constitute justification for the Social
Security Administration to use the preceding taxable year's estimate of earnings (or, if available, reported earnings) to suspend payment of benefits for the current or next taxable year.
(b)
Request by Social Security Administration for report after close of taxable year; failure to comply.
After the close of his or her taxable year, the Social Security Administration may request a beneficiary to furnish a report of his or her earnings for the closed taxable year and to furnish any other information about his or her earnings for that year that the Social Security Administration may specify. If he or she fails to comply with this request, this failure shall, in itself, constitute justification under section 203(h) of the Act for a determination that the beneficiary's benefits are subject to deductions as described in § 404.415 for each month in the taxable year (or only for the months thereof specified by the Social Security Administration).
[56 FR 11373, Mar. 18, 1991]
§ 404.456
Current suspension of benefits because an individual works or engages in self-employment.
(a)
Circumstances under which benefit payments may be suspended.
If, on the basis of information obtained by or submitted to the Administration, it is determined that an individual entitled to monthly benefits for any taxable year may reasonably be expected to have deductions imposed against his benefits (as described in § 404.415) by reason of his earnings for such year, the Administration may, before the close of the taxable year, suspend all or part, as the Administration may specify, of the benefits payable to the individual and to all other persons entitled (or deemed entitled—see § 404.420) to benefits on the basis of the individual's earnings record.
(b)
Duration of suspension.
The suspension described in paragraph (a) of this section shall remain in effect with respect to the benefits for each month until the Administration has determined whether or not any deduction under § 404.415 applies for such month.
(c)
When suspension of benefits becomes final.
For taxable years beginning after August 1958, if benefit payments were suspended (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) for all months of entitlement in an individual's taxable year, no benefit payment for any month in that year may be made after the expiration of the period of 3 years, 3 months, and 15 days following the close of the individual's taxable year unless, within that period, the individual, or any person entitled to benefits based on his earnings record, files with the Administration information showing that a benefit for a month is payable to the individual. Subject to the limitations of this paragraph, a determination about deductions may be reopened under the circumstances described in § 404.907.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.457
Deductions where taxes neither deducted from wages of certain maritime employees nor paid.
(a)
When deduction is required.
A deduction is required where:
(1) An individual performed services after September 1941 and before the termination of Title I of the First War Powers Act, 1941, on or in connection with any vessel as an officer or crew member; and
(2) The services were performed in the employ of the United States and employment was through the War Shipping Administration or, for services performed before February 11, 1942, through the United States Maritime Commission; and
(3) The services, under the provisions of § 404.1041 of this part, constituted employment for the purposes of title II of the Social Security Act; and
(4) The taxes imposed (by section 1400 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, as amended) with respect to such services were neither deducted from the individual's wages nor paid by the employer.
(b)
Amount of deduction.
The deduction required by paragraph (a) of this section is an amount equal to 1 percent of the wages with respect to which the taxes described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section were neither deducted nor paid by the employer.
(c)
How deduction is made.
The deduction required by paragraph (a) of this section is made by withholding an
amount as determined under paragraph (b) of this section from any monthly benefit or lump-sum death payment based on the earnings record of the individual who performed the services described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 65 FR 16813, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 404.458
Limiting deductions where total family benefits payable would not be affected or would be only partly affected.
Notwithstanding the provisions described in §§ 404.415, 404.417, 404.421, 404.451, and 404.453 about the amount of the deduction to be imposed for a month, no such deduction is imposed for a month when the benefits payable for that month to all persons entitled to benefits on the same earnings record and living in the same household remain equal to the maximum benefits payable to them on that earnings record. Where making such deductions and increasing the benefits to others in the household (for the month in which the deduction event occurred) would give members of the household less than the
maximum
(as determined under § 404.404) payable to them, the amount of deduction imposed is reduced to the difference between the maximum amount of benefits payable to them and the total amount which would have been paid if the benefits of members of the household not subject to deductions were increased for that month. The individual subject to the deduction for such month may be paid the difference between the deduction so reduced and his benefit as adjusted under § 404.403 (without application of § 404.402(a)). All other persons in the household are paid, for such month, their benefits as adjusted under § 404.403 without application of § 404.402(a).
[47 FR 43673, Oct. 4, 1982, as amended at 68 FR 15659, Apr. 1, 2003; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003]
§ 404.459
Penalty for making false or misleading statements or withholding information.
(a)
Why would SSA penalize me?
You will be subject to a penalty if:
(1) You make, or cause to be made, a statement or representation of a material fact, for use in determining any initial or continuing right to, or the amount of, monthly insurance benefits under title II or benefits or payments under title XVI, that you know or should know is false or misleading; or
(2) You make a statement or representation of a material fact for use as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with knowing disregard for the truth; or
(3) You omit from a statement or representation made for use as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or otherwise withhold disclosure (for example, fail to come forward to notify us) of, a fact which you know or should know is material to the determination of any initial or continuing right to, or the amount of, monthly insurance benefits under title II or benefits or payments under title XVI, if you know, or should know, that the statement or representation with such omission is false or misleading or that the withholding of such disclosure is misleading.
(b)
What is the penalty?
The penalty is nonpayment of benefits under title II that we would otherwise pay you and ineligibility for cash benefits under title XVI (including State supplementary payments made by SSA according to § 416.2005).
(c)
How long will the penalty last?
The penalty will last—
(1) Six consecutive months the first time we penalize you;
(2) Twelve consecutive months the second time we penalize you; and
(3) Twenty-four consecutive months the third or subsequent time we penalize you.
(d)
Will this penalty affect any of my other government benefits?
If we penalize you, the penalty will apply only to your eligibility for benefits under titles II and XVI (including State supplementary payments made by us according to § 416.2005). The penalty will not affect—
(1) Your eligibility for benefits that you would otherwise be eligible for under titles XVIII and XIX but for the imposition of the penalty; and
(2) The eligibility or amount of benefits payable under titles II or XVI to another person. For example, another person (such as your spouse or child) may be entitled to benefits under title
II based on your earnings record. Benefits would still be payable to that person to the extent that you would be receiving such benefits but for the imposition of the penalty. As another example, if you are receiving title II benefits that are limited under the family maximum provision (§ 404.403) and we stop your benefits because we impose a penalty on you, we will not increase the benefits of other family members who are limited by the family maximum provision simply because you are not receiving benefits because of the penalty.
(e)
How will SSA make its decision to penalize me?
In order to impose a penalty on you, we must find that you knowingly (knew or should have known or acted with knowing disregard for the truth) made a false or misleading statement or omitted or failed to report a material fact if you knew, or should have known, that the omission or failure to disclose was misleading. We will base our decision to penalize you on the evidence and the reasonable inferences that can be drawn from that evidence, not on speculation or suspicion. Our decision to penalize you will be documented with the basis and rationale for that decision. In determining whether you knowingly made a false or misleading statement or omitted or failed to report a material fact so as to justify imposition of the penalty, we will consider all evidence in the record, including any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have had at the time. In determining whether you acted knowingly, we will also consider the significance of the false or misleading statement or omission or failure to disclose in terms of its likely impact on your benefits.
(f)
What should I do if I disagree with SSA's initial determination to penalize me?
If you disagree with our initial determination to impose a penalty, you have the right to request reconsideration of the penalty decision as explained in § 404.907. We will give you a chance to present your case, including the opportunity for a face-to-face conference. If you request reconsideration of our initial determination to penalize you, you have the choice of a case review, informal conference, or formal conference, as described in § 416.1413(a) through (c). If you disagree with our reconsidered determination you have the right to follow the normal administrative and judicial review process by requesting a hearing before an administrative law judge, Appeals Council review and Federal court review, as explained in § 404.900.
(g)
When will the penalty period begin and end?
Subject to the additional limitations noted in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, the penalty period will begin the first day of the month for which you would otherwise receive payment of benefits under title II or title XVI were it not for imposition of the penalty. Once a sanction begins, it will run continuously even if payments are intermittent. If more than one penalty has been imposed, but they have not yet run, the penalties will not run concurrently.
(1) If you do not request reconsideration of our initial determination to penalize you, the penalty period will begin no earlier than the first day of the second month following the month in which the time limit for requesting reconsideration ends. The penalty period will end on the last day of the final month of the penalty period. For example, if the time period for requesting reconsideration ends on January 10, a 6-month period of nonpayment begins on March 1 if you would otherwise be eligible to receive benefits for that month, and ends on August 31.
(2) If you request reconsideration of our initial determination to penalize you and the reconsidered determination does not change our original decision to penalize you, the penalty period will begin no earlier than the first day of the second month following the month we notify you of our reconsidered determination. The penalty period will end on the last day of the final month of the penalty period. For example, if we notify you of our reconsidered determination on August 31, 2001, and you are not otherwise eligible for payment of benefits at that time, but would again be eligible to receive payment of benefits on October 1, 2003, a 6-month period of nonpayment would
begin on October 1, 2003 and end on March 31, 2004.
[65 FR 42285, July 10, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 61407, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 404.460
Nonpayment of monthly benefits to aliens outside the United States.
(a)
Nonpayment of monthly benefits to aliens outside the United States more than 6 months.
Except as described in paragraph (b) and subject to the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section after December 1956 no monthly benefit may be paid to any individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States, for any month after the sixth consecutive calendar month during all of which he is outside the United States, and before the first calendar month for all of which he is in the United States after such absence.
(1) For nonpayment of benefits under this section, it is necessary that the beneficiary be an alien, and while an alien, be outside the United States for more than six full consecutive calendar months. In determining whether, at the time of a beneficiary's initial entitlement to benefits, he or she has been outside the United States for a period exceeding six full consecutive calendar months, not more than the six calendar months immediately preceding the month of initial entitlement may be considered. For the purposes of this section,
outside the United States
means outside the territorial boundaries of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(2) Effective with 6-month periods beginning after January 2, 1968, after an alien has been outside the United States for any period of 30 consecutive days, he is deemed to be outside the United States continuously until he has returned to the United States and remained in the United States for a period of 30 consecutive days.
(3) Payments which have been discontinued pursuant to the provisions of this section will not be resumed until the alien beneficiary has been in the United States for a full calendar month. A full calendar month includes 24 hours of each day of the calendar month.
(4) Nonpayment of benefits to an individual under this section does not cause nonpayment of benefits to other persons receiving benefits based on the individual's earnings record.

# Example:
R, an alien, leaves the United States on August 15, 1967, and returns on February 1, 1968. He leaves again on February 15, 1968, and does not return until May 15, 1968, when he spends 1 day in the United States. He has been receiving monthly benefits since July 1967.
R's first 6-month period of absence begins September 1, 1967. Since this period begins before January 2, 1968, his visit (Feb. 1, 1968, to Feb. 15, 1968) to the United States for less than 30 consecutive days is sufficient to break this 6-month period.
R's second 6-month period of absence begins March 1, 1968. Since this period begins after January 2, 1968, and he was outside the United States for 30 consecutive days, he must return and spend 30 consecutive days in the United States prior to September 1, 1968, to prevent nonpayment of benefits beginning September 1968. If R fails to return to the United States for 30 consecutive days prior to September 1, 1968, payments will be discontinued and will not be resumed until R spends at least 1 full calendar month in the United States.
(b)
When nonpayment provisions do not apply.
The provisions described in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply, subject to the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section, to a benefit for any month if:
(1) The individual was, or upon application would have been, entitled to a monthly benefit for December 1956, based upon the same earnings record; or
(2)(i) The individual upon whose earnings the benefit is based, before that month, has resided in the United States for a period or periods aggregating 10 years or more or has earned not less than 40 quarters of coverage;
(ii) Except that, effective with July 1968, § 404.460(b)(2)(i) does not apply if:
(A) The beneficiary is a citizen of a country with a social insurance or pension system meeting the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(7)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section but does not meet the condition described in paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of this section; or
(B) The beneficiary is a citizen of a country with no social insurance or
pension system of general application and at any time within 5 years before January 1968 (or the first month after December 1967 in which benefits are subject to suspension pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section) such beneficiary was residing in a country to which payments were withheld by the Treasury Department pursuant to Vol. II, 31 U.S.C. 3329.
See
§ 404.460(c).
(iii) For purposes of this subparagraph a period of residence begins with the day the insured individual arrives in the United States with the intention of establishing at least a temporary home here; it continues so long as he maintains an attachment to an abode in the United States, accompanied by actual physical presence in the United States for a significant part of the period; and ends with the day of departure from the United States with the intention to reside elsewhere; or
(3) The individual is outside the United States while in the active military or naval service of the United States; or
(4) The individual on whose earnings the benefit is based died before that month and:
(i) Death occurred while the individual was on active duty or inactive duty training as a member of a uniformed service, or
(ii) Death occurred after the individual was discharged or released from a period of active duty or inactive duty training as a member of a uniformed service, and the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs determines, and certifies to the Commissioner, that the discharge or release was under conditions other than dishonorable and that death was as a result of a disease or injury incurred or aggravated in line of duty while on active duty or inactive duty training; or
(5) The individual on whose earnings record the benefit is based worked in service covered by the Railroad Retirement Act, and such work is treated as employment covered by the Social Security Act under the provisions described in subpart O of this part; or
(6) The nonpayment of monthly benefits under the provisions described in paragraph (a) of this section would be contrary to a treaty obligation of the United States in effect on August 1, 1956 (see § 404.463(b)); or
(7) The individual is a citizen of a foreign country that the Commissioner determines has in effect a social insurance or pension system (see § 404.463) which meets all of the following conditions:
(i) Such system pays periodic benefits or the actuarial equivalent thereof; and
(ii) The system is of general application; and
(iii) Benefits are paid in this system on account of old age, retirement, or death; and
(iv) Individuals who are citizens of the United States but not citizens of the foreign country and who qualify for such benefits are permitted to receive benefits without restriction or qualification, at their full rate, or the actuarial equivalent thereof, while outside of the foreign country and without regard to the duration of their absence therefrom.
(c)
Nonpayment of monthly benefits to aliens residing in certain countries
—(1)
Benefits for months after June 1968.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, we cannot pay monthly benefits for any month after June 1968 to anyone not a citizen or national of the United States for any month while residing in a country to which payments are being withheld by the Treasury Department pursuant to Vol. II, 31 U.S.C. 3329.
(2)
Benefits for months before July 1968.
If a person who is not a United States citizen or national is entitled to receive benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, and was residing in a country where the Treasury Department withheld benefits on June 30, 1968 pursuant to Vol. II, 31 U.S.C. 3329, benefits cannot be paid. However, if the Treasury Department subsequently removes that restriction, a person who is not a United States citizen or national may be able to be paid benefits to which they were entitled for months prior to July 1968. Benefits cannot be paid,—
(i) To any person other than such individual, or, if such individual dies before such benefits can be paid, to any person other than an individual who was entitled for the month in which
the deceased individual died (with the application of section 202(j)(1) of the Social Security Act) to a monthly benefit under title II of such Act on the basis of the same wages and self-employment income as such deceased individual; or
(ii) In excess of an amount equal to the amount of the last 12 months' benefits that would have been payable to such individual.
(3)
List of countries under Treasury Department alien payment restriction.
The Treasury Department is currently withholding payments to persons residing in the following countries pursuant to Vol. II, 31 U.S.C. 3329. We will publish future additions to or deletions from the list of countries in the
Federal Register
: Cuba, North Korea.
(d)
Nonpayment of monthly benefits to certain aliens entitled to benefits on a worker's earnings record.
An individual who after December 31, 1984 becomes eligible for benefits on the earnings record of a worker for the first time, is an alien, has been outside the United States for more than 6 consecutive months, and is qualified to receive a monthly benefit by reason of the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(5), or (b)(7) of this section, must also meet a U.S. residence requirement described in this section to receive benefits:
(1) An alien entitled to benefits as a child of a living or deceased worker—
(i) Must have resided in the U.S. for 5 or more years as the child of the parent on whose earnings record entitlement is based; or
(ii) The parent on whose earnings record the child is entitled and the other parent, if any, must each have either resided in the United States for 5 or more years or died while residing in the U.S.
(2) An alien who meets the requirements for child's benefits based on paragraph (d)(1) of this section above, whose status as a child is based on an adoptive relationship with the living or deceased worker, must also—
(i) Have been adopted within the United States by the worker on whose earnings record the child's entitlement is based; and
(ii) Have lived in the United States with, and received one-half support from, the worker for a period, beginning prior to the child's attainment of age 18, of
(A) At least one year immediately before the month in which the worker became eligible for old-age benefits or disability benefits or died (whichever occurred first), or
(B) If the worker had a period of disability which continued until the worker's entitlement to old-age or disability benefits or death, at least one year immediately before the month in which that period of disability began.
(3) An alien entitled to benefits as a spouse, surviving spouse, divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or surviving divorced mother or father must have resided in the United States for 5 or more years while in a spousal relationship with the person on whose earnings record the entitlement is based. The spousal relationship over the required period can be that of wife, husband, widow, widower, divorced wife, divorced husband, surviving divorced wife, surviving divorced husband, surviving divorced mother, surviving divorced father, or a combination of two or more of these categories.
(4) An alien who is entitled to parent's benefits must have resided in the United States for 5 or more years as a parent of the person on whose earnings record the entitlement is based.
(5) Individuals eligible for benefits before January 1, 1985 (including those eligible for one category of benefits on a particular worker's earnings record after December 31, 1984, but also eligible for a different category of benefits on the same worker's earnings record before January 1, 1985), will not have to meet the residency requirement.
(6) Definitions applicable to paragraph (d) of this section are as follows:
Eligible for benefits
means that an individual satisfies the criteria described in subpart D of this part for benefits at a particular time except that the person need not have applied for those benefits at that time.
Other parent
for purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section means any other living parent who is of the opposite sex of the worker and who is the adoptive parent by whom the child was adopted before the child attained age 16 and who is or was the spouse of the person on whose earnings record
the child is entitled; or the natural mother or natural father of the child; or the step-parent of the child by a marriage, contracted before the child attained age 16, to the natural or adopting parent on whose earnings record the child is entitled. (Note: Based on this definition, a child may have more than one living
other parent.
However, the child's benefit will be payable for a month if in that month he or she has one
other parent
who had resided in the U.S. for at least 5 years.)
Resided in the United States
for satisfying the residency requirement means presence in the United States with the intention of establishing at least a temporary home. A period of residence begins upon arrival in the United States with that intention and continues so long as an attachment to an abode in the United States is maintained, accompanied by actual physical presence in the United States for a significant part of the period, and ending the day of departure from the United States with the intention to reside elsewhere. The period need not have been continuous and the requirement is satisfied if the periods of U.S. residence added together give a total of 5 full years.
(7) The provisions described in paragraph (d) of this section shall not apply if the beneficiary is a citizen or resident of a country with which the United States has a totalization agreement in force, except to the extent provided by that agreement.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 34 FR 13366, Aug. 19, 1969; 52 FR 8249, Mar. 17, 1987; 52 FR 26145, July 13, 1987; 60 FR 17445, Apr. 6, 1995; 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 69 FR 51555, Aug. 20, 2004; 74 FR 48856, Sept. 25, 2009; 83 FR 21709, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.461
Nonpayment of lump sum after death of alien outside United States for more than 6 months.
Where an individual dies outside the United States after January 1957 and no monthly benefit was or could have been paid to him for the month preceding the month in which he died because of the provisions described in § 404.460, no lump-sum death payment may be made upon the basis of the individual's earnings record.
§ 404.462
Nonpayment of hospital and medical insurance benefits of alien outside United States for more than 6 months.
No payments may be made under part A (hospital insurance benefits) of title XVIII for items or services furnished to an individual in any month for which the prohibition described in § 404.460 against payment of benefits to an individual outside the United States for more than six full consecutive calendar months is applicable (or would be if he were entitled to any such benefits). Also, no payments may be made under part B (supplementary medical insurance benefits) of title XVIII for expenses incurred by an individual during any month the individual is not paid a monthly benefit by reason of the provisions described in § 404.460 or for which no monthly benefit would be paid if he were otherwise entitled thereto.
§ 404.463
Nonpayment of benefits of aliens outside the United States; “foreign social insurance system,” and “treaty obligation” exceptions defined.
(a)
Foreign social insurance system exception.
The following criteria are used to evaluate the social insurance or pension system of a foreign country to determine whether the exception described in § 404.460(b) to the alien nonpayment provisions applies:
(1)
Social insurance or pension system.
A
social insurance system
means a governmental plan which pays benefits as an earned right, on the basis either of contributions or work in employment covered under the plan, without regard to the financial need of the beneficiary. However, a plan of this type may still be regarded as a
social insurance system
though it may provide, in a subordinate fashion, for a supplemental payment based on need. A
pension system
means a governmental plan which pays benefits based on residence or age, or a private employer's plan for which the government has set up uniform standards for coverage, contributions, eligibility, and benefit amounts provided that, in both of these types of plans, the financial need of the beneficiary is not a consideration.
(2)
In effect.
The social insurance or pension system of the foreign country must be
in effect.
This means that the foreign social insurance or pension system is in full operation with regard to taxes (or contributions) and benefits, or is in operation with regard to taxes (or contributions), and provision is made for payments to begin immediately upon the expiration of the period provided in the law for acquiring earliest eligibility. It is not
in effect
if the law leaves the beginning of operation to executive or other administrative action; nor is it in effect if the law has been temporarily suspended.
(3)
General application.
The term
of general application
means that the social insurance or pension system (or combination of systems) covers a substantial portion of the paid labor force in industry and commerce, taking into consideration the industrial classification and size of the paid labor force and the population of the country, as well as occupational, size of employer, and geographical limitations on coverage.
(4)
Periodic benefit or actuarial equivalent.
The term
periodic benefit
means a benefit payable at stated regular intervals of time such as weekly, biweekly, or monthly.
Actuarial equivalent
of a periodic benefit means the commutation of the value of the periodic benefit into a lump-sum payment, taking life expectancy and interest into account.
(5)
Benefits payable on account of old age, retirement, or death.
The requirement that benefits be payable
on account of old age, retirement, or death,
is satisfied if the foreign social insurance plan or system includes provision for payment of benefits to aged or retired persons and to dependents and survivors of covered workers. The requirement is also met where the system pays benefits based only on old age or retirement. The requirement is not met where the only benefits payable are workmen's compensation payments, cash sickness payments, unemployment compensation payments, or maternity insurance benefits.
(6)
System under which U.S. citizens who qualify may receive payment while outside the foreign country.
The foreign social insurance or pension system must permit payments to qualified U.S. citizens while outside such foreign country, regardless of the duration of their absence therefrom and must make the payments without restriction or qualification to these U.S. citizens at full rate, or at the full actuarial value. The foreign system is considered to pay benefits at the full rate if the U.S. citizen receives the full benefit rate in effect for qualified beneficiaries at the time of his award, whether he is then inside or outside the paying country; and he continues to receive the same benefit amount so long as he remains outside that country, even though he may not receive any increases going into effect after his award provided that in those other countries in which such increases are denied to beneficiaries, they are denied to all beneficiaries including nationals of the paying country.
(7)
List of countries which meet the social insurance or pension system exception in section 202(t)(2) of the act.
The following countries have been found to have in effect a social insurance or pension system which meets the requirements of section 202(t)(2) of the Act. Unless otherwise specified, each country meets such requirements effective January 1957. The effect of these findings is that beneficiaries who are citizens of such countries and not citizens of the United States may be paid benefits regardless of the duration of their absence from the United States unless for months beginning after June 1968 they are residing in a country to which payments to individuals are being withheld by the Treasury Department pursuant to the first section of the Act of October 9, 1940 (31 U.S.C. 123). Further additions to or deletions from the list of countries will be published in the
Federal Register.
Antigua and Barbuda (effective November 1981)
Argentina (effective July 1968)
Austria (except from January 1958 through June 1961)
Bahamas, Commonwealth of the (effective October 1974)
Barbados (effective July 1968)
Belgium (effective July 1968)
Belize (effective September 1981)
Bolivia
Brazil
Burkina Faso, Republic of (formerly Upper Volta)
Canada (effective January 1966)
Chile
Colombia (effective January 1967)
Costa Rica (effective May 1962)
Cyprus (effective October 1964)
Czechoslovakia (effective July 1968)
Denmark (effective April 1964)
Dominica (effective November 1978)
Dominican Republic (effective November 1984)
Ecuador
El Salvador (effective January 1969)
Finland (effective May 1968)
France (effective June 1968)
Gabon (effective June 1964)
Grenada (effective April 1983)
Guatemala (effective October 1978)
Guyana (effective September 1969)
Iceland (effective December 1980)
Ivory Coast
Jamaica (effective July 1968)
Liechtenstein (effective July 1968)
Luxembourg
Malta (effective September 1964)
Mexico (effective March 1968)
Monaco
Netherlands (effective July 1968)
Nicaragua (effective May 1986)
Norway (effective June 1968)
Panama
Peru (effective February 1969)
Philippines (effective June 1960)
Poland (effective March 1957)
Portugal (effective May 1968)
San Marino (effective January 1965)
Spain (effective May 1966)
St. Christopher and Nevis (effective September 1983)
St. Lucia (effective August 1984)
Sweden (effective July 1966)
Switzerland (effective July 1968)
Trinidad and Tobago (effective July 1975)
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Micronesia) (effective July 1976)
Turkey
United Kingdom
Western Samoa (effective August 1972)
Yugoslavia
Zaire (effective July 1961) (formerly Congo (Kinshasa))
(b)
The “treaty obligation” exception.
It is determined that the Treaties of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation now in force between the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, the Republic of Ireland, Israel, Italy, and Japan, respectively, create treaty obligations precluding the application of § 404.460(a) to citizens of such countries; and that the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation now in force between the United States and the Kingdom of the Netherlands creates treaty obligations precluding the application of § 404.460(a) to citizens of that country with respect to monthly survivors benefits only. There is no treaty obligation that would preclude the application of § 404.460(a) to citizens of any country other than those listed above.
[32 FR 19159, Dec. 20, 1967, as amended at 43 FR 2628, Jan. 18, 1978; 52 FR 8249, Mar. 17, 1987]
§ 404.464
How does deportation or removal from the United States affect the receipt of benefits?
(a)
Old-age or disability insurance benefits.
(1) You cannot receive an old-age or disability benefit for any month that occurs after the month we receive notice from the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General of the United States that you were:
(i) Deported under the provisions of section 241(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) that were in effect before April 1, 1997, unless your deportation was under:
(A) Paragraph (1)(C) of that section; or
(B) Paragraph (1)(E) of that section and we received notice of your deportation under this paragraph before March 3, 2004;
(ii) Removed as deportable under the provisions of section 237(a) of the INA as in effect beginning April 1, 1997, unless your removal was under:
(A) Paragraph (1)(C) of that section; or
(B) Paragraph (1)(E) of that section and we received notice of your removal under this paragraph before March 3, 2004; or
(iii) Removed as inadmissible under the provisions of section 212(a)(6)(A) of the INA as in effect beginning April 1, 1997.
(2) Benefits that cannot be paid to you because of your deportation or removal under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may again be payable for any month subsequent to your deportation or removal that you are lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence. You are considered lawfully admitted for permanent residence as of the month you enter the United States with permission to reside here permanently.
(b)
Dependents or survivors benefits.
If an insured person on whose record you are entitled cannot be paid (or could
not have been paid while still alive) an old-age or disability benefit for a month(s) because of his or her deportation or removal under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you cannot be paid a dependent or survivor benefit on the insured person's record for that month(s) unless:
(1) You are a U.S citizen; or
(2) You were present in the United States for the entire month. (This means you were not absent from the United States for any period during the month, no matter how short.)
(c)
Lump sum death payment.
A lump sum death payment cannot be paid on the record of a person who died:
(1) In or after the month we receive from the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General of the United States notice of his or her deportation or removal under the provisions of the INA specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section (excluding the exceptions under paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (B) and (ii)(A) and (B) of this section); and
(2) Before the month in which the deceased person was thereafter lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
[70 FR 16411, Mar. 31, 2005]
§ 404.465
Conviction for subversive activities; effect on monthly benefits and entitlement to hospital insurance benefits.
(a)
Effect of conviction.
Where an individual is convicted of any offense (committed after August 1, 1956) under chapter 37 (relating to espionage and censorship), chapter 105 (relating to sabotage), or chapter 115 (relating to treason, sedition, and subversive activities) of title 18 U.S.C., or under section 4, 112, or 113 of the Internal Security Act of 1950, as amended, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, may order that, in determining whether any monthly benefit is payable to the individual for the month in which he is convicted or for any month thereafter, and in determining whether the individual is entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII for any such month, and in determining the amount of the benefit for that month, the following are not to be taken into account:
(1) Any wages paid to such individual, or to any other individual, in the calendar quarter in which such conviction occurred or in any prior calendar quarter, and
(2) Any net earnings from self-employment derived by the individual, or any other individual, during the taxable year in which the conviction occurred or during any prior taxable year.
(b)
Recalculation of benefit.
When notified by the Attorney General that the additional penalty as described in paragraph (a) of this section has been imposed against any individual entitled to benefits under section 202 or section 223 of the Act (see subpart D), the Administration, for the purposes of determining the individual's entitlement to such benefits as of the month in which convicted and the amount of the benefit, will exclude the applicable wages and net earnings in accordance with the order of the court.
(c)
Effect of pardon.
In the event that an individual, with respect to whom the additional penalty as described in paragraph (a) of this section has been imposed, is granted a pardon of the offense by the President of the United States, such penalty is not applied in determining such individual's entitlement to benefits, and the amount of such benefit, for any month beginning after the date on which the pardon is granted.
§ 404.466
Conviction for subversive activities; effect on enrollment for supplementary medical insurance benefits.
An individual may not enroll under part B (supplementary medical insurance benefits) of title XVIII if he has been convicted of any offense described in § 404.465.
§ 404.467
Nonpayment of benefits; individual entitled to disability insurance benefits or childhood disability benefits based on statutory blindness is engaging in substantial gainful activity.
(a)
Disability insurance benefits.
An individual who has attained age 55 and who meets the definition of disability for disability insurance benefits purposes based on
statutory blindness,
as defined in § 404.1581, may be entitled to
disability insurance benefits for months in which he is engaged in certain types of substantial gainful activity. No payment, however, may be made to the individual or to beneficiaries entitled to benefits on his earnings record for any month in which such individual engages in any type of substantial gainful activity.
(b)
Childhood disability benefits.
An individual who has attained age 55 and who meets the definition of disability prescribed in § 404.1583 for childhood disability benefits on the basis of statutory blindness may be entitled to childhood disability benefits for months in which he engages in certain types of substantial gainful activity. However, no payment may be made to such individual for any month after December 1972 in which such individual engages in substantial gainful activity.
[39 FR 43715, Dec. 18, 1974, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986]
§ 404.468
Nonpayment of benefits to prisoners.
(a)
General.
No monthly benefits will be paid to any individual for any month any part of which the individual is confined in a jail, prison, or other penal institution or correctional facility for conviction of a felony. This rule applies to disability benefits (§ 404.315) and child's benefits based on disability (§ 404.350) effective with benefits payable for months beginning on or after October 1, 1980. For all other monthly benefits, this rule is effective with benefits payable for months beginning on or after May 1, 1983. However, it applies only to the prisoner; benefit payments to any other person who is entitled on the basis of the prisoner's wages and self-employment income are payable as though the prisoner were receiving benefits.
(b)
Felonious offenses.
An offense will be considered a felony if—
(1) It is a felony under applicable law: or
(2) In a jurisdiction which does not classify any crime as a felony, it is an offense punishable by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year.
(c)
Confinement.
In general, a jail, prison, or other penal institution or correctional facility is a facility which is under the control and jurisdiction of the agency in charge of the penal system or in which convicted criminals can be incarcerated. Confinement in such a facility continues as long as the individual is under a sentence of confinement and has not been released due to parole or pardon. An individual is considered confined even though he or she is temporarily or intermittently outside of that facility (e.g., on work release, attending school, or hospitalized).
(d)
Vocational rehabilitation exception.
The nonpayment provision of paragraph (a) of this section does not apply if a prisoner who is entitled to benefits on the basis of disability is actively and satisfactorily participating in a rehabilitation program which has been specifically approved for the individual by court of law. In addition, the Commissioner must determine that the program is expected to result in the individual being able to do substantial gainful activity upon release and within a reasonable time. No benefits will be paid to the prisoner for any month prior to the approval of the program.
[49 FR 48182, Dec. 11, 1984, as amended at 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997]
§ 404.469
Nonpayment of benefits where individual has not furnished or applied for a Social Security number.
No monthly benefits will be paid to an entitled individual unless he or she either furnishes to the Social Security Administration (SSA) satisfactory proof of his or her Social Security number, or, if the individual has not been assigned a number, he or she makes a proper application for a number (see § 422.103). An individual submits satisfactory proof of his or her Social Security number by furnishing to SSA the number and sufficient additional information that can be used to determine whether that Social Security number or another number has been assigned to the individual. Sufficient additional information may include the entitled individual's date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, and father's name. If the individual does not know his or her Social Security number, SSA will use this additional information to determine the Social Security number, if any, that it
assigned to the individual. This rule applies to individuals who become entitled to benefits beginning on or after June 1, 1989.
[56 FR 41789, Aug. 23, 1991]
§ 404.470
Nonpayment of disability benefits due to noncompliance with rules regarding treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism.
(a)
Suspension of monthly benefits.
(1) For an individual entitled to benefits based on a disability (§ 404.1505) and for whom drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535), monthly benefits will be suspended beginning with the first month after we notify the individual in writing that he or she has been determined not to be in compliance with the treatment requirements for such individuals (§ 404.1536).
(2) This rule applies to all individuals entitled to disability benefits (§ 404.315), widow(er)'s benefits (§ 404.335), and child's benefits based on a disability (§ 404.350) effective with benefits paid in months beginning on or after March 1, 1995.
(3) Benefit payments to any other person who is entitled on the basis of a disabled wage earner's entitlement to disability benefits are payable as though the disabled wage earner were receiving benefits.
(b)
Resumption of monthly benefits.
The payment of benefits may be resumed only after an individual demonstrates and maintains compliance with appropriate treatment requirements for:
(1) 2 consecutive months for the first determination of noncompliance;
(2) 3 consecutive months for the second determination of noncompliance; and
(3) 6 consecutive months for the third and all subsequent determinations of noncompliance.
(c)
Termination of benefits.
(1) A suspension of benefit payments due to noncompliance with the treatment requirements for 12 consecutive months will result in termination of benefits effective with the first month following the 12th month of suspension of benefits.
(2) Benefit payments to any other person who is entitled on the basis of a disabled wage earner's entitlement to disability benefits are payable as though the disabled wage earner were receiving benefits.
[60 FR 8146, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 404.471
Nonpayment of disability benefits for trial work period service months upon a conviction of fraudulently concealing work activity.
(a)
Nonpayment of benefits during the trial work period.
Beginning with work activity performed in March 2004 and thereafter, if you are convicted by a Federal court of fraudulently concealing your work activity and the concealment of the work activity occurred while you were in a trial work period, monthly disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act are not payable for months in which you performed services during that trial work period prior to the conviction (see § 404.1592 for a definition of a trial work period and services). Benefits already received for months of work activity in the trial work period prior to the conviction and in the same period of disability during which the fraudulently concealed work activity occurred, will be considered an overpayment on the record.
(b)
Concealment of work activity.
You can be found to be fraudulently concealing work activity if—
(1) You provide false information to us concerning the amount of earnings you received or are receiving for a particular period;
(2) You received or are receiving disability benefits while engaging in work activity under another identity (this would include working under another social security number or a forged social security number); or
(3) You take other actions to conceal work activity with the intent of fraudulently obtaining benefits in excess of amounts that are due.
[71 FR 66866, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 404.480
Paying benefits in installments: Drug addiction or alcoholism.
(a)
General.
For disabled beneficiaries who receive benefit payments through
a representative payee because drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 404.1535), certain amounts due the beneficiary for a past period will be paid in installments. The amounts subject to payment in installments include:
(1) Benefits due but unpaid which accrued prior to the month payment was effectuated;
(2) Benefits due but unpaid which accrued during a period of suspension for which the beneficiary was subsequently determined to have been eligible; and
(3) Any adjustment to benefits which results in an accrual of unpaid benefits.
(b)
Installment formula.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the amount of the installment payment in any month is limited so that the sum of (1) the amount due for a past period (and payable under paragraph (a) of this section) paid in such month and (2) the amount of any benefit due for the preceding month under such entitlement which is payable in such month, does not exceed two times the amount of the beneficiary's benefit payment for the preceding month. In counting the amount of the beneficiary's benefit payment for the previous month, no reductions or deductions under this title are taken into account.
(c)
Exception to installment limitation.
An exception to the installment payment limitation in paragraph (b) of this section can be granted for the first month in which a beneficiary accrues benefit amounts subject to payment in installments if the beneficiary has unpaid housing expenses which result in a high risk of homelessness for the beneficiary. In that case, the benefit payment may be increased by the amount of the unpaid housing expenses so long as that increase does not exceed the amount of benefits which accrued during the most recent period of nonpayment. We consider a person to be at risk of homelessness if continued nonpayment of the outstanding housing expenses is likely to result in the person losing his or her place to live or if past nonpayment of housing expenses has resulted in the person having no appropriate personal place to live. In determining whether this exception applies, we will ask for evidence of outstanding housing expenses that shows that the person is likely to lose or has already lost his or her place to live. For purposes of this section, homelessness is the state of not being under the control of any public institution and having no appropriate personal place to live. Housing expenses include charges for all items required to maintain shelter (for example, mortgage payments, rent, heating fuel, and electricity).
(d)
Payment through a representative payee.
If the beneficiary does not have a representative payee, payment of amounts subject to installments cannot be made until a representative payee is selected.
(e)
Underpaid beneficiary no longer entitled.
In the case of a beneficiary who is no longer currently entitled to monthly payments, but to whom amounts defined in paragraph (a) of this section are still owing, we will treat such beneficiary's monthly benefit for the last month of entitlement as the beneficiary's benefit for the preceding month and continue to make installment payments of such benefits through a representative payee.
(f)
Beneficiary currently not receiving Social Security benefits because of suspension for noncompliance with treatment.
If a beneficiary is currently not receiving benefits because his or her benefits have been suspended for noncompliance with treatment (as defined in § 404.1536), the payment of amounts under paragraph (a) of this section will stop until the beneficiary has demonstrated compliance with treatment as described in § 404.470 and will again commence with the first month the beneficiary begins to receive benefit payments.
(g)
Underpaid beneficiary deceased.
Upon the death of a beneficiary, any remaining unpaid amounts as defined in paragraph (a) of this section will be treated as underpayments in accordance with § 404.503(b).
[60 FR 8146, Feb. 10, 1995]

# Subpart F—Overpayments, Underpayments, Waiver of Adjustment or Recovery of Overpayments, and Liability of a Certifying Officer

# Authority:
Secs. 204, 205(a), 702(a)(5), and 1147 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 404, 405(a), 902(a)(5), and 1320b-17); 31 U.S.C. 3711; 31 U.S.C. 3716; 31 U.S.C. 3720A.
§ 404.501
General applicability of section 204 of the Act.
(a)
In general.
Section 204 of the Act provides for adjustment as set forth in §§ 404.502 and 404.503, in cases where an individual has received more or less than the correct payment due under title II of the Act. As used in this subpart, the term
overpayment
includes a payment in excess of the amount due under title II of the Act, a payment resulting from the failure to impose deductions or to suspend or reduce benefits under sections 203, 222(b), 224, and 228(c), and (d), and (e) of the Act (see subpart E of this part), a payment pursuant to section 205(n) of the Act in an amount in excess of the amount to which the individual is entitled under section 202 or 223 of the Act, a payment resulting from the failure to terminate benefits, and a payment where no amount is payable under title II of the Act. The term
pandemic period
as used throughout this subpart for the purposes of the waiver authority in § 404.506(b) refers exclusively to the period of time beginning on March 1, 2020, and ending on September 30, 2020. The term
underpayment
as used in this subpart refers only to monthly insurance benefits and includes nonpayment where some amount of such benefits was payable. An underpayment may be in the form of an accrued unpaid benefit amount for which no check has been drawn or in the form of an unnegotiated check payable to a deceased individual. The provisions for adjustment also apply in cases where through error:
(1) A reduction required under section 202(j)(1), 202(k)(3), 203(a), or 205(n) of the Act is not made, or
(2) An increase or decrease required under section 202(d)(2), or 215 (f) or (g) of the Act is not made, or
(3) A deduction required under section 203(b) (as may be modified by the provisions of section 203(h)), 203(c), 203(d), 203(i), 222(b), or 223(a)(1)(D) of the Act or section 907 of the Social Security Amendments of 1939 is not made, or
(4) A suspension required under section 202(n) or 202(t) of the Act is not made, or
(5) A reduction under section 202(q) of the Act is not made, or
(6) A reduction, increase, deduction, or suspension is made which is either more or less than required, or
(7) A payment in excess of the amount due under title XVIII of the Act was made to or on behalf of an individual (see 42 CFR 405.350 through 405.351) entitled to benefits under title II of the Act, or
(8) A payment of past due benefits is made to an individual and such payment had not been reduced by the amount of attorney's fees payable directly to an attorney under section 206 of the Act (see § 404.977).
(9) A reduction under § 404.408b is made which is either more or less than required.
(b)
Payments made on the basis of an erroneous report of death.
Any monthly benefit or lump sum paid under title II of the Act on the basis of an erroneous report by the Department of Defense of the death of an individual in the line of duty while such individual was a member of the uniformed services (as defined in section 210(m) of the Act) on active duty (as defined in section 210(l) of the Act) is deemed a correct payment for any month prior to the month such Department notifies the Administration that such individual is alive.
(c)
Payments made by direct deposit to a financial institution.
When a payment in excess of the amount due under title II of the Act is made by direct deposit to a financial institution to or on behalf of an individual who has died, and the financial institution credits the payment to a joint account of the deceased individual and another person who was entitled to a monthly benefit on the basis of the same earnings record as the deceased individual for the month before the month in which the deceased individual died, the amount of the payment in excess of the
correct amount will be an overpayment to the other person.
[34 FR 14887, Sept. 27, 1969, as amended at 44 FR 34942, June 18, 1979; 47 FR 4988, Feb. 3, 1982; 48 FR 46149, Oct. 11, 1983; 55 FR 7313, Mar. 1, 1990; 85 FR 52914, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 404.502
Overpayments.
Upon determination that an overpayment has been made, adjustments will be made against monthly benefits and lump sums as follows:
(a)
Individual overpaid is living.
(1) If the individual to whom an overpayment was made is at the time of a determination of such overpayment entitled to a monthly benefit or a lump sum under title II of the Act, or at any time thereafter becomes so entitled, no benefit for any month and no lump sum is payable to such individual, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, until an amount equal to the amount of the overpayment has been withheld or refunded. Such adjustments will be made against any monthly benefit or lump sum under title II of the Act to which such individual is entitled whether payable on the basis of such individual's earnings or the earnings of another individual.
(2) If any other individual is entitled to benefits for any month on the basis of the same earnings as the overpaid individual, except as adjustment is to be effected pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section by withholding a part of the monthly benefit of either the overpaid individual or any other individual entitled to benefits on the basis of the same earnings, no benefit for any month will be paid on such earnings to such other individual until an amount equal to the amount of the overpayment has been withheld or refunded.
(3) If a representative payee receives a payment on behalf of a beneficiary after that beneficiary dies, the representative payee or his estate is solely liable for repaying the overpayment. If the representative payee is entitled to a monthly benefit or a lump sum under title II of the Act at the time we determine that an overpayment exists or at any time thereafter, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, we will not pay the monthly benefits or the lump sum to the representative payee until the amount of the overpayment has been repaid. We will make such adjustments against any monthly benefit or lump sum under title II of the Act to which the representative payee is entitled whether payable on the basis of such representative payee's earnings or the earnings of another individual.
(b)
Individual overpaid dies before adjustment.
If an overpaid individual dies before adjustment is completed under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, no lump sum and no subsequent monthly benefit will be paid on the basis of earnings which were the basis of the overpayment to such deceased individual until full recovery of the overpayment has been effected, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section or under § 404.515. Such recovery may be effected through:
(1) Payment by the estate of the deceased overpaid individual,
(2) Withholding of amounts due the estate of such individual under title II of the Act,
(3) Withholding a lump sum or monthly benefits due any other individual on the basis of the same earnings which were the basis of the overpayment to the deceased overpaid individual, or
(4) Any combination of the amount above.
(5) The methods in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for overpayments owed by a representative payee for payments made after the beneficiary's death. We will not recover such overpayments from any person other than the individual who was representative payee or his estate, but we may recover these overpayments from such other person under § 404.503(b).
(c)
Adjustment by withholding part of a monthly benefit.
(1) Where it is determined that withholding the full amount each month would
defeat the purpose of title II, i.e.
, deprive the person of income required for ordinary and necessary living expenses (see § 404.508), adjustment under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be effected by withholding an amount of not less than $10 of the monthly benefit payable to an individual.
(2) Adjustment as provided by this paragraph will not be available if the overpayment was caused by the individual's intentional false statement or representation, or willful concealment of, or deliberate failure to furnish, material information. In such cases, recovery of the overpayment will be accomplished as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Individual overpaid enrolled under supplementary insurance plan.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, if the individual liable for the overpayment is an enrollee under part B of title XVIII of the Act and the overpayment was not caused by such individual's intentional false statement or representation, or willful concealment of, or deliberate failure to furnish, material information, an amount of such individual's monthly benefit which is equal to his obligation for supplementary medical insurance premiums will be applied toward payment of such premiums, and the balance of the monthly benefit will be applied toward recovery of the overpayment. Further adjustment with respect to such balance may be made if the enrollee so requests and meets the conditions of paragraph (c) of this section.
[35 FR 5943, Apr. 10, 1970, as amended at 44 FR 20653, Apr. 6, 1979; 73 FR 65542, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 404.502a
Notice of right to waiver consideration.
Whenever an initial determination is made that more than the correct amount of payment has been made, and we seek adjustment or recovery of the overpayment, the individual from whom we are seeking adjustment or recovery is immediately notified. The notice includes:
(a) The overpayment amount and how and when it occurred;
(b) A request for full, immediate refund, unless the overpayment can be withheld from the next month's benefit;
(c) The proposed adjustment of benefits if refund is not received within 30 days after the date of the notice and adjustment of benefits is available;
(d) An explanation of the availability of a different rate of withholding when full withholding is proposed, installment payments when refund is requested and adjustment is not currently available, and/or cross-program recovery when refund is requested and the individual is receiving another type of payment from SSA (language about cross-program recovery is not included in notices sent to individuals in jurisdictions where this recovery option is not available);
(e) An explanation of the right to request waiver of adjustment or recovery and the automatic scheduling of a file review and pre-recoupment hearing (commonly referred to as a personal conference) if a request for waiver cannot be approved after initial paper review;
(f) An explanation of the right to request reconsideration of the fact and/or amount of the overpayment determination;
(g) Instructions about the availability of forms for requesting reconsideration and waiver;
(h) An explanation that if the individual does not request waiver or reconsideration within 30 days of the date of the overpayment notice, adjustment or recovery of the overpayment will begin;
(i) A statement that an SSA office will help the individual complete and submit forms for appeal or waiver requests; and
(j) A statement that the individual receiving the notice should notify SSA promptly if reconsideration, waiver, a lesser rate of withholding, repayment by installments or cross-program adjustment is wanted.
[61 FR 56131, Oct. 31, 1996]
§ 404.503
Underpayments.
Underpayments will be adjusted as follows:
(a)
Individual underpaid is living.
If an individual to whom an underpayment is due is living, the amount of such underpayment will be paid to such individual either in a single payment (if he is not entitled to a monthly benefit or a lump-sum death payment) or by increasing one or more monthly benefits or a lump-sum death payment to which such individual is or becomes entitled. However, if we determine that the individual to whom an underpayment is
due also received an overpayment as defined in § 404.501(a) for a different period, we will apply any underpayment due the individual to reduce that overpayment, unless we have waived recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of §§ 404.506 through 404.512.
(b)
Individual dies before adjustment of underpayment.
If an individual who has been underpaid dies before receiving payment or negotiating a check or checks representing such payment, we first apply any amounts due the deceased individual against any overpayments as defined in § 404.501(a) owed by the deceased individual, unless we have waived recovery of such overpayment under the provisions of §§ 404.506 through 404.512. We then will distribute any remaining underpayment to the living person (or persons) in the highest order of priority as follows:
(1) The deceased individual's surviving spouse as defined in section 216(c), (g), or (h) of the Act who was either:
(i) Living in the same household (as defined in § 404.347) with the deceased individual at the time of such individual's death, or
(ii) Entitled to a monthly benefit on the basis of the same earnings record as was the deceased individual for the month in which such individual died.
(2) The child or children of the deceased individual (as defined in section 216 (e) or (h) of the Act) entitled to a monthly benefit on the basis of the same earnings record as was the deceased individual for the month in which such individual died (if more than one such child, in equal shares to each such child).
(3) The parent or parents of the deceased individual, entitled to a monthly benefit on the basis of the same earnings record as was the deceased individual for the month in which such individual died (if more than one such parent, in equal shares to each such parent). For this purpose, the definition of “parent” in § 404.374 includes the parent(s) of any deceased individual who was entitled to benefits under title II of the Act.
(4) The surviving spouse of the deceased individual (as defined in section 216(c), (g), or (h) of the Act) who does not qualify under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(5) The child or children of the deceased individual (as defined in section 216 (e) or (h) of the Act) who do not qualify under paragraph (b)(2) of this section (if more than one such child, in equal shares to each such child).
(6) The parent or parents of the deceased individual, who do not qualify under paragraph (b)(3) of this section (if more than one such parent, in equal shares to each such parent). For this purpose, the definition of “parent” in § 404.374 includes the parent(s) of any deceased individual who was entitled to benefits under title II of the Act.
(7) The legal representative of the estate of the deceased individual as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) In the event that a person who is otherwise qualified to receive an underpayment under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, dies before receiving payment or before negotiating the check or checks representing such payment, his share of the underpayment will be divided among the remaining living person(s) in the same order of priority. In the event that there is (are) no other such person(s), the underpayment will be paid to the living person(s) in the next lower order of priority under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Definition of legal representative.
The term
legal representative,
for the purpose of qualifying to receive an underpayment, generally means the administrator or executor of the estate of the deceased individual. However, it may also include an individual, institution or organization acting on behalf of an unadministered estate, provided that such person can give the Administration good acquittance (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section). The following persons may qualify as legal representative for the purposes of this subpart, provided they can give the Administration good acquittance:
(1) A person who qualifies under a State's
small estate
statute,
(2) A person resident in a foreign country who, under the laws and customs of that country, has the right to receive assets of the estate,
(3) A public administrator, or
(4) A person who has the authority, under applicable law, to collect the assets of the estate of the deceased individual.
(e)
Definition of “good acquittance.”
A person is considered to give the Administration
good acquittance
when payment to that person will release the Administration from further liability for such payment.
[34 FR 14487, Sept. 27, 1969, as amended at 35 FR 14129, Sept. 5, 1970; 55 FR 7313, Mar. 1, 1990; 60 FR 17445, Apr. 6, 1995; 73 FR 65543, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 404.504
Relation to provisions for reductions and increases.
The amount of an overpayment or underpayment is the difference between the amount paid to the beneficiary and the amount of the payment to which the beneficiary was actually entitled. Such payment, for example, would be equal to the difference between the amount of a benefit in fact paid to the beneficiary and the amount of such benefit as reduced under section 202(j)(1), 202(k)(3), 203(a), or 224(a), or as increased under section 202(d)(2), 202(m), or 215 (f) and (g). In effecting an adjustment with respect to an overpayment, no amount can be considered as having been withheld from a particular benefit which is in excess of the amount of such benefit as so decreased.
[34 FR 14888, Sept. 27, 1969]
§ 404.505
Relationship to provisions requiring deductions.
Adjustments required by any of the provisions in this subpart F are made in addition to, but after, any deductions required by section 202(t), 203(b), 203(c), 203(d), and 222(b) of the Act, or section 907 of the Social Security Act Amendments of 1939, and before any deductions required by section 203(g) or 203(h)(2) of the Act.
[34 FR 14888, Sept. 27, 1969]
§ 404.506
When waiver may be applied and how to process the request.
(a) Section 204(b) of the Act provides that there shall be no adjustment or recovery in any case where an overpayment under title II has been made to an individual who is without fault if adjustment or recovery would either defeat the purpose of title II of the Act, or be against equity and good conscience.
(b) We will apply the procedures in this paragraph (b) when an individual requests waiver of all or part of a qualifying overpayment.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (b), a qualifying overpayment is one that accrued during the
pandemic period
(see § 404.501(a)) because of the actions that we took in response to the COVID-19 national public health emergency, including the suspension of certain of our manual workloads that would have processed actions identifying and stopping certain overpayments.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, we will presume that an individual who requests waiver of a qualifying overpayment is without fault in causing the overpayment (see § 404.507) unless we determine that the qualifying overpayment made to a beneficiary or a representative payee was the result of fraud or similar fault or involved misuse of benefits by a representative payee (see § 404.2041).
(3) If we determine under paragraph (b)(2) of this section that an individual or a representative payee is without fault in causing a qualifying overpayment we will also determine that recovery of the qualifying overpayment would be against equity and good conscience. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) only, “against equity and good conscience” is not limited to the meaning used in § 404.509 but means a broad concept of fairness that takes into account all of the facts and circumstances of the case.
(4) If we determine that a primary beneficiary is not without fault with respect to a qualifying overpayment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, because it was caused by fraud or similar fault or because of representative payee misuse, we may still find that any auxiliary beneficiaries on the primary beneficiary's record are eligible for waiver of recovery of the qualifying overpayment under this paragraph (b). If an auxiliary beneficiary requests waiver of a qualifying overpayment in accordance with this paragraph (b), we will waive recovery of the overpayment if the auxiliary beneficiary meets all of the requirements of this paragraph (b).
(5) The provisions of this paragraph (b) will apply to a qualifying overpayment identified by December 31, 2020.
(c) If an individual requests waiver of adjustment or recovery of a title II overpayment within 30 days after receiving a notice of overpayment that contains the information in § 404.502a, no adjustment or recovery action will be taken until after the initial waiver determination is made. If the individual requests waiver more than 30 days after receiving the notice of overpayment, SSA will stop any adjustment or recovery actions until after the initial waiver determination is made.
(d) When waiver is requested, the individual gives SSA information to support his/her contention that he/she is without fault in causing the overpayment (see § 404.507) and that adjustment or recovery would either defeat the purpose of title II of the Act (see § 404.508) or be against equity and good conscience (see § 404.509). That information, along with supporting documentation, is reviewed to determine if waiver can be approved. If waiver cannot be approved after this review, the individual is notified in writing and given the dates, times and place of the file review and personal conference; the procedure for reviewing the claims file prior to the personal conference; the procedure for seeking a change in the scheduled dates, times, and/or place; and all other information necessary to fully inform the individual about the personal conference. The file review is always scheduled at least 5 days before the personal conference. We will offer to the individual the option of conducting the personal conference face-to-face at a place we designate, by telephone, or by video teleconference. The notice will advise the individual of the date and time of the personal conference.
(e) At the file review, the individual and the individual's representative have the right to review the claims file and applicable law and regulations with the decisionmaker or another SSA representative who is prepared to answer questions. We will provide copies of material related to the overpayment and/or waiver from the claims file or pertinent sections of the law or regulations that are requested by the individual or the individual's representative.
(f) At the personal conference, the individual is given the opportunity to:
(1) Appear personally, testify, cross-examine any witnesses, and make arguments;
(2) Be represented by an attorney or other representative (see § 404.1700), although the individual must be present at the conference; and
(3) Submit documents for consideration by the decisionmaker.
(g) At the personal conference, the decisionmaker:
(1) Tells the individual that the decisionmaker was not previously involved in the issue under review, that the waiver decision is solely the decisionmaker's, and that the waiver decision is based only on the evidence or information presented or reviewed at the conference;
(2) Ascertains the role and identity of everyone present;
(3) Indicates whether or not the individual reviewed the claims file;
(4) Explains the provisions of law and regulations applicable to the issue;
(5) Briefly summarizes the evidence already in file which will be considered;
(6) Ascertains from the individual whether the information presented is correct and whether he/she fully understands it;
(7) Allows the individual and the individual's representative, if any, to present the individual's case;
(8) Secures updated financial information and verification, if necessary;
(9) Allows each witness to present information and allows the individual and the individual's representative to question each witness;
(10) Ascertains whether there is any further evidence to be presented;
(11) Reminds the individual of any evidence promised by the individual which has not been presented;
(12) Lets the individual and the individual's representative, if any, present any proposed summary or closing statement;
(13) Explains that a decision will be made and the individual will be notified in writing; and
(14) Explains repayment options and further appeal rights in the event the decision is adverse to the individual.
(h) SSA issues a written decision to the individual (and his/her representative, if any) specifying the findings of fact and conclusions in support of the decision to approve or deny waiver and advising of the individual's right to appeal the decision. If waiver is denied, adjustment or recovery of the overpayment begins even if the individual appeals.
(i) If it appears that the waiver cannot be approved, and the individual declines a personal conference or fails to appear for a second scheduled personal conference, a decision regarding the waiver will be made based on the written evidence of record. Reconsideration is then the next step in the appeals process (but see § 404.930(a)(7)).
[61 FR 56131, Oct. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 1973, Jan. 11, 2008; 85 FR 52914, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 404.507
Fault.
Fault
as used in
without fault
(see § 404.506 and 42 CFR 405.355) applies only to the individual. Although the Administration may have been at fault in making the overpayment, that fact does not relieve the overpaid individual or any other individual from whom the Administration seeks to recover the overpayment from liability for repayment if such individual is not without fault. In determining whether an individual is at fault, the Social Security Administration will consider all pertinent circumstances, including the individual's age and intelligence, and any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) the individual has. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, we will not determine any overpaid individual to be at fault in causing a qualifying overpayment (see § 404.506(b)(1)) unless we determine that the qualifying overpayment made to a beneficiary or a representative payee during the pandemic period (see § 404.501) was the result of fraud or similar fault or involved misuse of benefits by a representative payee (see § 404.2041). What constitutes fault (except for
deduction overpayments
—see § 404.510) on the part of the overpaid individual or on the part of any other individual from whom the Administration seeks to recover the overpayment depends upon whether the facts show that the incorrect payment to the individual or to a provider of services or other person, or an incorrect payment made under section 1814(e) of the Act, resulted from:
(a) An incorrect statement made by the individual which he knew or should have known to be incorrect; or
(b) Failure to furnish information which he knew or should have known to be material; or
(c) With respect to the overpaid individual only, acceptance of a payment which he either knew or could have been expected to know was incorrect.
[34 FR 14888, Sept. 27, 1969; 34 FR 15646, Oct. 9, 1969, as amended at 44 FR 34942, June 18, 1979; 59 FR 1634, Jan. 12, 1994; 85 FR 52914, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 404.508
Defeat the purpose of Title II.
(a)
General. Defeat the purpose of title II,
for purposes of this subpart, means defeat the purpose of benefits under this title,
i.e.
, to deprive a person of income required for ordinary and necessary living expenses. This depends upon whether the person has an income or financial resources sufficient for more than ordinary and necessary needs, or is dependent upon all of his current benefits for such needs. An individual's ordinary and necessary expenses include:
(1) Fixed living expenses, such as food and clothing, rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, insurance (e.g., life, accident, and health insurance including premiums for supplementary medical insurance benefits under title XVIII), taxes, installment payments, etc.;
(2) Medical, hospitalization, and other similar expenses;
(3) Expenses for the support of others for whom the individual is legally responsible; and
(4) Other miscellaneous expenses which may reasonably be considered as part of the individual's standard of living.
(b)
When adjustment or recovery will defeat the purpose of title II.
Adjustment or recovery will defeat the purposes of
title II in (but is not limited to) situations where the person from whom recovery is sought needs substantially all of his current income (including social security monthly benefits) to meet current ordinary and necessary living expenses.
[32 FR 18026, Dec. 16, 1967, as amended at 34 FR 14888, Sept. 27, 1969]
§ 404.509
Against equity and good conscience; defined.
(a) Recovery of an overpayment is
against equity and good conscience
(under title II and title XVIII) if an individual—
(1) Changed his or her position for the worse (Example 1) or relinquished a valuable right (Example 2) because of reliance upon a notice that a payment would be made or because of the overpayment itself; or
(2) Was living in a separate household from the overpaid person at the time of the overpayment and did not receive the overpayment (Examples 3 and 4).
(b) The individual's financial circumstances are not material to a finding of
against equity and good conscience.

# Example 1.
A widow, having been awarded benefits for herself and daughter, entered her daughter in private school because the monthly benefits made this possible. After the widow and her daughter received payments for almost a year, the deceased worker was found to be not insured and all payments to the widow and child were incorrect. The widow has no other funds with which to pay the daughter's private school expenses. Having entered the daughter in private school and thus incurred a financial obligation toward which the benefits had been applied, she was in a worse position financially than if she and her daughter had never been entitled to benefits. In this situation, the recovery of the payments would be
against equity and good conscience.

# Example 2.
After being awarded old-age insurance benefits, an individual resigned from employment on the assumption he would receive regular monthly benefit payments. It was discovered 3 years later that (due to a Social Security Administration error) his award was erroneous because he did not have the required insured status. Due to his age, the individual was unable to get his job back and could not get any other employment. In this situation, recovery of the overpayments would be
against equity and good conscience
because the individual gave up a valuable right.

# Example 3.
M divorced K and married L. M died a few years later. When K files for benefits as a surviving divorced wife, she learns that L had been overpaid $3,200 on M's earnings record. Because K and L are both entitled to benefits on M's record of earnings and we could not recover the overpayment from L, we sought recovery from K. K was living in a separate household from L at the time of the overpayment and did not receive the overpayment. K requests waiver of recovery of the $3,200 overpayment from benefits due her as a surviving divorced wife of M. In this situation, it would be
against equity and good conscience
to recover the overpayment from K.

# Example 4.
G filed for and was awarded benefits. His daughter, T, also filed for student benefits on G's earnings record. Since T was an independent, full-time student living in another State, she filed for benefits on her own behalf. Later, after T received 12 monthly benefits, the school reported that T had been a full-time student only 2 months and had withdrawn from school. Since T was overpaid 10 monthly benefits, she was requested to return the overpayment to SSA. T did not return the overpayment and further attempts to collect the overpayment were unsuccessful. G was asked to repay the overpayment because he was receiving benefits on the same earnings record. G requested waiver. To support his waiver request G established that he was not at fault in causing the overpayment because he did not know that T was receiving benefits. Since G is without fault and, in addition, meets the requirements of not living in the same household at the time of the overpayment and did not receive the overpayment, it would be
against equity and good conscience
to recover the overpayment from G.
[53 FR 25483, July 7, 1988]
§ 404.510
When an individual is “without fault” in a deduction overpayment.
In determining whether an individual is “without fault” with respect to a deduction overpayment, the Social Security Administration will consider all pertinent circumstances, including the individual's age and intelligence, and any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) the individual has. Except as provided in § 404.511 or elsewhere in this subpart F, situations in which an individual will be considered to be “without fault” with respect to a deduction overpayment include, but are not limited to, those that are described in this
section. An individual will be considered “without fault” in accepting a payment which is incorrect because he/she failed to report an event specified in sections 203 (b) and (c) of the Act, or an event specified in section 203(d) of the Act as in effect for monthly benefits for months after December 1960, or because a deduction is required under section 203 (b), (c), (d), or section 222(b) of the Act, or payments were not withheld as required by section 202(t) or section 228 of the Act, if it is shown that such failure to report or acceptance of the overpayment was due to one of the following circumstances:
(a) Reasonable belief that only his net cash earnings (
take-home
pay) are included in determining the annual earnings limitation or the monthly earnings limitation under section 203(f) of the Act.
(b) Reliance upon erroneous information from an official source within the Social Security Administration (or other governmental agency which the individual had reasonable cause to believe was connected with the administration of benefits under title II of the Act) with respect to the interpretation of a pertinent provision of the Social Security Act or regulations pertaining thereto. For example, this circumstance could occur where the individual is misinformed by such source as to the interpretation of a provision in the Act or regulations relating to deductions, or relating to the effect of residence of an alien outside the United States for more than 6 months.
(c) The beneficiary's death caused the earnings limit applicable to his earnings for purposes of deduction and the charging of excess earnings to be reduced below $1,680 for a taxable year ending after 1967.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Reasonable belief that in determining, for deduction purposes, his earnings from employment and/or net earnings from self-employment in the taxable year in which he became entitled to benefits, earnings in such year prior to such entitlement would be excluded. However, this provision does not apply if his earnings in the taxable year, beginning with the first month of entitlement, exceeded the earnings limitation amount for such year.
(f) Unawareness that his earnings were in excess of the earnings limitation applicable to the imposition of deductions and the charging of excess earnings or that he should have reported such excess where these earnings were greater than anticipated because of:
(1) Retroactive increases in pay, including back-pay awards;
(2) Work at a higher pay rate than realized;
(3) Failure of the employer of an individual unable to keep accurate records to restrict the amount of earnings or the number of hours worked in accordance with a previous agreement with such individual;
(4) The occurrence of five Saturdays (or other work days, e.g., five Mondays) in a month and the earnings for the services on the fifth Saturday or other work day caused the deductions.
(g) The continued issuance of benefit checks to him after he sent notice to the Administration of the event which caused or should have caused the deductions provided that such continued issuance of checks led him to believe in good faith that he was entitled to checks subsequently received.
(h) Lack of knowledge that bonuses, vacation pay, or similar payments, constitute earnings for purposes of the annual earnings limitation.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Reasonable belief that earnings in excess of the earnings limitation amount for the taxable year would subject him to deductions only for months beginning with the first month in which his earnings exceeded the earnings limitation amount. However, this provision is applicable only if he reported timely to the Administration during the taxable year when his earnings reached the applicable limitation amount for such year.
(k) Lack of knowledge by a wife, husband, or child entitled to wife's, husband's, or child's insurance benefits, as the case may be, that the individual entitled to old-age insurance benefits on the same earnings record has incurred or would incur deductions because of a violation of the annual earnings or 7-day foreign work test, whichever is applicable, provided the wife, husband, or child is not living with
such old-age insurance beneficiary and did not know and had no reason to know that such beneficiary's earnings activity or the income derived therefrom has caused or would cause such deductions.
(l) Reasonable belief, with respect to earnings activity for months after December 1982, that net earnings from self-employment after attainment of age 70 (age 72 for months after December 1972 and before January 1983) in the taxable year in which such age was attained would not cause deductions (see § 404.430(a)) with respect to benefits payable for months in that taxable year prior to the attainment of such age.
(m) Reasonable belief by an individual entitled to child's, wife's, husband's, widow's, widower's, mother's, or parent's insurance benefits that earnings from employment and/or net earnings from self-employment after the termination of entitlement (other than termination by reason of entitlement to an old-age insurance benefit) in the taxable year in which the termination event occurred would not cause deductions with respect to benefits payable for months in that taxable year prior to the month in which the termination event occurred.
(n) Failure to understand the deduction provisions of the Act or the occurrence of unusual or unavoidable circumstances the nature of which clearly shows that the individual was unaware of a violation of such deduction provisions.
[27 FR 1162, Feb. 8, 1962, as amended at 28 FR 14492, Dec. 31, 1963; 34 FR 14888, Sept. 27, 1969; 36 FR 23361, Dec. 9, 1971; 43 FR 31318, July 21, 1978; 44 FR 20653, Apr. 6, 1979; 59 FR 1634, Jan. 12, 1994; 60 FR 17445, Apr. 6, 1995]
§ 404.510a
When an individual is “without fault” in an entitlement overpayment.
A benefit payment under title II or title XVIII of the Act to or on behalf of an individual who fails to meet one or more requirements for entitlement to such payment or a benefit payment exceeding the amount to which he is entitled, constitutes an entitlement overpayment. Where an individual or other person on behalf of an individual accepts such overpayment because of reliance on erroneous information from an official source within the Social Security Administration (or other governmental agency which the individual had reasonable cause to believe was connected with the administration of benefits under title II or title XVIII of the Act) with respect to the interpretation of a pertinent provision of the Social Security Act or regulations pertaining thereto, or where an individual or other person on behalf of an individual is overpaid as a result of the adjustment upward (under the family maximum provision in section 203 of the Act) of the benefits of such individual at the time of the proper termination of one or more beneficiaries on the same social security record and the subsequent reduction of the benefits of such individual caused by the reentitlement of the terminated beneficiary(ies) pursuant to a change in a provision of the law, such individual, in accepting such overpayment, will be deemed to be
without fault.
For purposes of this section
governmental agency
includes intermediaries and carriers under contract pursuant to sections 1816 and 1842 of the Act.
[39 FR 43716, Dec. 18, 1974]
§ 404.511
When an individual is at “fault” in a deduction overpayment.
(a)
Degree of care.
An individual will not be
without fault
if the Administration has evidence in its possession which shows either a lack of good faith or failure to exercise a high degree of care in determining whether circumstances which may cause deductions from his benefits should be brought to the attention of the Administration by an immediate report or by return of a benefit check. The high degree of care expected of an individual may vary with the complexity of the circumstances giving rise to the overpayment and the capacity of the particular payee to realize that he is being overpaid. Accordingly, variances in the personal circumstances and situations of individual payees are to be considered in determining whether the necessary degree of care has been exercised by an individual to warrant a finding that he was without fault in accepting a
deduction overpayment.
(b)
Subsequent deduction overpayments.
The Social Security Administration generally will not find an individual to be without fault where, after having been exonerated for a “deduction overpayment” and after having been advised of the correct interpretation of the deduction provision, the individual incurs another “deduction overpayment” under the same circumstances as the first overpayment. However, in determining whether the individual is without fault, the Social Security Administration will consider all of the pertinent circumstances surrounding the prior and subsequent “deduction overpayments,” including any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which the individual may have.
[16 FR 13054, Dec. 28, 1951, as amended at 59 FR 1634, Jan. 12, 1994]
§ 404.512
When adjustment or recovery of an overpayment will be waived.
(a)
Adjustment or recovery deemed “against equity and good conscience.”
In the situations described in §§ 404.510(a), (b), and (c), and 404.510a, adjustment or recovery will be waived since it will be deemed such adjustment or recovery is
against equity and good conscience.
Adjustment or recovery will also be deemed
against equity and good conscience
in the situation described in § 404.510(e), but only as to a month in which the individual's earnings from wages do not exceed the total monthly benefits affected for that month.
(b)
Adjustment or recovery considered to defeat the purpose of title II
or be
against equity and good conscience
under certain circumstances. In the situation described in § 404.510(e) (except in the case of an individual whose monthly earnings from wages in employment do not exceed the total monthly benefits affected for a particular month), and in the situations described in § 404.510 (f) through (n), adjustment or recovery shall be waived only where the evidence establishes that adjustment or recovery would work a financial hardship (see § 404.508) or would otherwise be inequitable (see § 404.509).
[27 FR 1163, Feb. 8, 1962, as amended at 35 FR 6321, Apr. 18, 1970; 36 FR 23361, Dec. 9, 1971]
§ 404.513
Liability of a certifying officer.
No certifying or disbursing officer shall be held liable for any amount certified or paid by him to any individual.
(a) Where adjustment or recovery of such amount is waived under section 204(b) of the Act; or
(b) Where adjustment under section 204(a) of the Act is not completed prior to the death of all individuals against whose benefits or lump sums deductions are authorized; or
(c) Where a claim for recovery of an overpayment is compromised or collection or adjustment action is suspended or terminated pursuant to the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 (31 U.S.C. 951-953) (see § 404.515).
[34 FR 14889, Sept. 27, 1969]
§ 404.515
Collection and compromise of claims for overpayment.
(a)
General effect of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996.
Claims by the Administration against an individual for recovery of overpayments under title II or title XVIII (not including title XVIII overpayments for which refund is requested from providers, physicians, or other suppliers of services) of the Act, not exceeding the sum of $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, exclusive of interest, may be compromised, or collection suspended or terminated where such individual or his estate does not have the present or prospective ability to pay the full amount of the claim within a reasonable time (see paragraph (c) of this section) or the cost of collection is likely to exceed the amount of recovery (see paragraph (d) of this section) except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
When there will be no compromise, suspension or termination of collection of a claim for overpayment
—(1)
Overpaid individual alive.
In any case where the overpaid individual is alive, a claim for overpayment will not be compromised, nor will there be suspension or termination of collection of the claim by the Administration if there is an indication of fraud, the filing of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of such individual or on the part of any
other party having an interest in the claim.
(2)
Overpaid individual deceased.
In any case where the overpaid individual is deceased (i) a claim for overpayment in excess of $5,000 will not be compromised, nor will there be suspension or termination of collection of the claim by the Administration if there is an indication of fraud; the filing of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of such deceased individual, and (ii) a claim for overpayment regardless of the amount will not be compromised, nor will there be suspension or termination of collection of the claim by the Administration if there is an indication that any person other than the deceased overpaid individual had a part in the fraudulent action which resulted in the overpayment.
(c)
Inability to pay claim for recovery of overpayment.
In determining whether the overpaid individual is unable to pay a claim for recovery of an overpayment under title II or title XVIII of the Act, the Administration will consider such individual's age, health, present and potential income (including inheritance prospects), assets (e.g., real property, savings account), possible concealment or improper transfer of assets, and assets or income of such individual which may be available in enforced collection proceedings. The Administration will also consider exemptions available to such individual under the pertinent State or Federal law in such proceedings. In the event the overpaid individual is deceased, the Administration will consider the available assets of the estate, taking into account any liens or superior claims against the estate.
(d)
Cost of collection or litigative probabilities.
Where the probable costs of recovering an overpayment under title II or title XVIII of the Act would not justify enforced collection proceedings for the full amount of the claim or there is doubt concerning the Administration's ability to establish its claim as well as the time which it will take to effect such collection, a compromise or settlement for less than the full amount will be considered.
(e)
Amount of compromise.
The amount to be accepted in compromise of a claim for overpayment under title II or title XVIII of the Act shall bear a reasonable relationship to the amount which can be recovered by enforced collection proceedings giving due consideration to the exemptions available to the overpaid individual under State or Federal law and the time which such collection will take.
(f)
Payment.
Payment of the amount which the Administration has agreed to accept as a compromise in full settlement of a claim for recovery of an overpayment under title II or title XVIII of the Act must be made within the time and in the manner set by the Administration. A claim for such recovery of the overpayment shall not be considered compromised or settled until the full payment of the compromised amount has been made within the time and manner set by the Administration. Failure of the overpaid individual or his estate to make such payment as provided shall result in reinstatement of the full amount of the overpayment less any amounts paid prior to such default.
[34 FR 14889, Sept. 27, 1969; 34 FR 15413, Oct. 3, 1969, as amended at 79 FR 33684, June 12, 2014]
§ 404.520
Referral of overpayments to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset—General.
(a) The standards we will apply and the procedures we will follow before requesting the Department of the Treasury to offset income tax refunds due taxpayers who have an outstanding overpayment are set forth in §§ 404.520 through 404.526. These standards and procedures are authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720A and are implemented through Department of the Treasury regulations at 31 CFR 285.2.
(b) We will use the Department of the Treasury tax refund offset procedure to collect overpayments that are certain in amount, past due and legally enforceable, and eligible for tax refund offset under regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury. We will use these procedures to collect overpayments only from persons who are not currently entitled to monthly Social Security benefits under title II of the Act. We will refer overpayments to
the Department of the Treasury for offset against Federal tax refunds regardless of the length of time the debts have been outstanding.
[62 FR 64277, Dec. 5, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 65108, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 404.521
Notice to overpaid persons.
Before we request the collection of an overpayment by reduction of Federal and State income tax refunds, we will send a written notice of intent to the overpaid person. In our notice of intent to collect an overpayment through tax refund offset, we will state:
(a) The amount of the overpayment; and
(b) That we will collect the overpayment by requesting that the Department of the Treasury reduce any amounts payable to the overpaid person as refunds of Federal and State income taxes by an amount equal to the amount of the overpayment unless, within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice, the overpaid person:
(1) Repays the overpayment in full; or
(2) Provides evidence to us at the address given in our notice that the overpayment is not past due or legally enforceable; or
(3) Asks us to waive collection of the overpayment under section 204(b) of the Act.
(c) The conditions under which we will waive recovery of an overpayment under section 204(b) of the Act;
(d) That we will review any evidence presented that the overpayment is not past due or not legally enforceable;
(e) That the overpaid person has the right to inspect and copy our records related to the overpayment as determined by us and will be informed as to where and when the inspection and copying can be done after we receive notice from the overpaid person that inspection and copying are requested.
[56 FR 52468, Oct. 21, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997; 76 FR 65108, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 404.522
Review within SSA that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable.
(a)
Notification by overpaid individual.
An overpaid individual who receives a notice as described in § 404.521 has the right to present evidence that all or part of the overpayment is not past due or not legally enforceable. To exercise this right, the individual must notify us and present evidence regarding the overpayment within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice.
(b)
Submission of evidence.
The overpaid individual may submit evidence showing that all or part of the debt is not past due or not legally enforceable as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. Failure to submit the notification and evidence within 60 calendar days will result in referral of the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury, unless the overpaid individual, within this 60-day time period, has asked us to waive collection of the overpayment under section 204(b) of the Act and we have not yet determined whether we can grant the waiver request. If the overpaid individual asks us to waive collection of the overpayment, we may ask that evidence to support the request be submitted to us.
(c)
Review of the evidence.
After a timely submission of evidence by the overpaid individual, we will consider all available evidence related to the overpayment. If the overpaid individual has not requested a waiver we will make findings based on a review of the written record, unless we determine that the question of indebtedness cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence. If the overpaid individual has asked us to make a waiver determination and our records do not show that after an oral hearing we had previously determined that he was at “fault” in accepting the overpayment, we will not deny the waiver request without first scheduling an oral hearing.
[56 FR 52469, Oct. 21, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997]
§ 404.523
Findings by SSA.
(a) Following the hearing or a review of the record, we will issue written findings which include supporting rationale for the findings. Issuance of these findings concerning whether the overpayment or part of the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable is the final Agency action with respect to the past-due status and enforceability of the overpayment. If we
make a determination that a waiver request cannot be granted, we will issue a written notice of this determination in accordance with the regulations in subpart J of this part. Our referral of the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury will not be suspended under § 404.525 pending any further administrative review of the waiver request that the individual may seek.
(b) Copies of the findings described in paragraph (a) of this section will be distributed to the overpaid individual and the overpaid individual's attorney or other representative, if any.
(c) If the findings referred to in paragraph (a) of this section affirm that all or part of the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable and, if waiver is requested, we determine that the request cannot be granted, we will refer the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury. No referral will be made to the Department of the Treasury if, based on our review of the overpayment, we reverse our prior finding that the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable or, upon consideration of a waiver request, we determine that waiver of our collection of the overpayment is appropriate.
[56 FR 52469, Oct. 21, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997]
§ 404.524
Review of our records related to the overpayment.
(a)
Notification by the overpaid individual.
An overpaid individual who intends to inspect or copy our records related to the overpayment as determined by us must notify us stating his or her intention to inspect or copy.
(b)
Our response.
In response to a notification by the overpaid individual as described in paragraph (a) of this section, we will notify the overpaid individual of the location and time when the overpaid individual may inspect or copy our records related to the overpayment. We may also, at our discretion, mail copies of the overpayment-related records to the overpaid individual.
[56 FR 52469, Oct. 21, 1991]
§ 404.525
Suspension of offset.
If, within 60 days of the date of the notice described in § 404.521, the overpaid individual notifies us that he or she is exercising a right described in § 404.522(a) and submits evidence pursuant to § 404.522(b) or requests a waiver under § 404.506, we will suspend any notice to the Department of the Treasury until we have issued written findings that affirm that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable and, if applicable, make a determination that a waiver request cannot be granted.
[56 FR 52469, Oct. 21, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997]
§ 404.526
Tax refund insufficient to cover amount of overpayment.
If a tax refund for a given taxable year is insufficient to recover an overpayment completely, the case will remain with the Department of the Treasury for offset, assuming that all criteria for offset continue to be met.
[62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997]
§ 404.527
Additional methods for recovery of title II benefit overpayments.
(a)
General.
In addition to the methods specified in §§ 404.502 and 404.520, an overpayment under title II of the Act is also subject to recovery under the rules in subparts D and E of part 422 of this chapter. Subpart D of part 422 of this chapter applies only under the following conditions:
(1) The overpayment occurred after the individual has attained age 18;
(2) The overpaid individual is no longer entitled to benefits under title II of the Act; and
(3) Pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, we have determined that the overpayment is otherwise unrecoverable under section 204 of the Act.
(b)
When an overpayment is considered to be otherwise unrecoverable.
An overpayment under title II of the Act is considered to be otherwise unrecoverable under section 204 of the Act if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) Our billing system sequence has been completed (
i.e.
, we have sent the individual an initial notice of the overpayment, a reminder notice, and a past-due notice) or collection activity has been suspended or terminated in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards in 31 CFR 903.2 or 903.3.
(2) We have not entered into an installment payment arrangement with the overpaid individual or, if we have entered into such an arrangement, the overpaid individual has failed to make any payment for two consecutive months.
(3) The overpaid individual has not requested waiver pursuant to § 404.506 or § 404.522 or, after a review conducted pursuant to those sections, we have determined that we will not waive collection of the overpayment.
(4) The overpaid individual has not requested reconsideration of the initial overpayment determination pursuant to §§ 404.907 and 404.909 or, after a review conducted pursuant to § 404.913, we have affirmed, in whole or in part, the initial overpayment determination.
(5) The overpayment cannot be recovered pursuant to § 404.502 by adjustment of benefits payable to any individual other than the overpaid individual. For purposes of this paragraph, an overpayment will be deemed to be unrecoverable from any individual who was living in a separate household from the overpaid person at the time of the overpayment and did not receive the overpayment.
[62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 74183, Dec. 23, 2003]
§ 404.530
Are title VIII and title XVI benefits subject to adjustment to recover title II overpayments?
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Cross-program recovery.
Cross-program recovery is the process that we will use to collect title II overpayments from benefits payable to you under title VIII and title XVI of the Act.
(2)
Benefits payable.
For purposes of this section, benefits payable means the amount of title VIII or title XVI benefits you actually would receive. For title VIII benefits, it includes your monthly benefit and any past-due benefits after any reduction by the amount of income for the month as described in §§ 408.505 through 408.515 of this chapter. For title XVI benefits, it includes your monthly benefit and any past-due benefits as described in § 416.420 of this chapter.
(b)
When may we collect title II overpayments using cross-program recovery?
We may use cross-program recovery to collect a title II overpayment you owe when benefits are payable to you under title VIII, title XVI, or both.
[70 FR 15, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 404.535
How much will we withhold from your title VIII and title XVI benefits to recover a title II overpayment?
(a) If past-due benefits are payable to you, we will withhold the lesser of the entire overpayment balance or the entire amount of past-due benefits.
(b)(1) We will collect the overpayment from current monthly benefits due in a month under title VIII and title XVI by withholding the lesser of the amount of the entire overpayment balance or:
(i) 10 percent of the monthly title VIII benefits payable for that month and
(ii) in the case of title XVI benefits, an amount no greater than the lesser of the benefit payable for that month or an amount equal to 10 percent of your income for that month (including such monthly benefit but excluding payments under title II when recovery is also made from title II benefits and excluding income excluded pursuant to §§ 416.1112 and 416.1124 of this chapter).
(2) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply if:
(i) You request and we approve a different rate of withholding, or
(ii) You or your spouse willfully misrepresented or concealed material information in connection with the overpayment.
(c) In determining whether to grant your request that we withhold less than the amount described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, we will use the criteria applied under § 404.508 to similar requests about withholding from title II benefits.
(d) If you or your spouse willfully misrepresented or concealed material information in connection with the overpayment, we will collect the overpayment by withholding the lesser of the overpayment balance or the entire amount of title VIII and title XVI benefits payable to you. We will not collect at a lesser rate. (See § 416.571 of this chapter for what we mean by concealment of material information.)
[70 FR 15, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 404.540
Will you receive notice of our intention to apply cross-program recovery?
Before we collect an overpayment from you using cross-program recovery, we will send you a written notice that tells you the following information:
(a) We have determined that you owe a specific overpayment balance that can be collected by cross-program recovery;
(b) We will withhold a specific amount from the title VIII or title XVI benefits (see § 404.535);
(c) You may ask us to review this determination that you still owe this overpayment balance;
(d) You may request that we withhold a different amount from your current monthly benefits (the notice will not include this information if § 404.535(d) applies); and
(e) You may ask us to waive collection of this overpayment balance.
[70 FR 15, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 404.545
When will we begin cross-program recovery from current monthly benefits?
(a) We will begin collecting the overpayment balance from your title VIII or title XVI current monthly benefits or payments by cross-program recovery no sooner than 30 calendar days after the date of the notice described in § 404.540. If within that 30-day period you pay us the full overpayment balance stated in the notice, we will not begin cross-program recovery.
(b) If within that 30-day period you ask us to review our determination that you still owe us this overpayment balance, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits before we review the matter and notify you of our decision in writing.
(c) If within that 30-day period you ask us to withhold a different amount than the amount stated in the notice, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits until we determine the amount we will withhold. This paragraph does not apply when § 404.535(d) applies.
(d) If within that 30-day period you ask us to waive recovery of the overpayment balance, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits before we review the matter and notify you of our decision in writing. See §§ 404.506 through 404.512.
[70 FR 15, Jan. 3, 2005]

# Subpart G—Filing of Applications and Other Forms

# Authority:
Secs. 202(i), (j), (o), (p), and (r), 205(a), 216(i)(2), 223(b), 228(a), and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402(i), (j), (o), (p), and (r), 405(a), 416(i)(2), 423(b), 428(a), and 902(a)(5)).

# Source:
44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 404.601
Introduction.
This subpart contains the Social Security Administration's rules for filing a claim for old-age, disability, dependents', and survivors' insurance benefits as described in subpart D of part 404. It tells what an application is, who may sign it, where and when it must be signed and filed, the period of time it is in effect and how it may be withdrawn. This subpart also explains when a written statement, request, or notice will be considered filed. Since the application form and procedures for filing a claim under this subpart are the same as those used to establish entitlement to Medicare benefits under 42 CFR part 405, persons who wish to become entitled to Medicare benefits should refer to the provisions of this subpart. Requirements concerning applications for the black lung benefits program are contained in part 410. Requirements concerning applications for the supplemental security income program are contained in part 416. Part 422 contains the requirements for applying for a social security number.
§ 404.602
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart—
Applicant
means the person who files an application for benefits for himself or herself or for someone else. A person who files for himself or herself is both the
applicant
and the
claimant.
Application
refers only to an application on a form described in § 404.611.
Benefits
means any old-age, disability, dependents', and survivors' insurance benefits described in subpart D, including a period of disability.
Claimant
means the person who files an application for benefits for himself or herself or the person for whom an application is filed.
We, us,
or
our
means the Social Security Administration (SSA).
You
or
your
means, as appropriate, the person who applies for benefits, the person for whom an application is filed, or the person who may consider applying for benefits.
§ 404.603
You must file an application to receive benefits.
In addition to meeting other requirements, you must file an application to become entitled to benefits. If you believe you may be entitled to benefits, you should file an application. Filing an application will—
(a) Permit a formal decision to be made on your entitlement to benefits;
(b) Protect your entitlement to any benefits that may be payable for as many as 6 months or 12 months (depending on the type of benefit, as explained in § 404.621) before the application was filed; and
(c) Give you the right to appeal if you are dissatisfied with the decision.
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 47444, Sept. 28, 1981]

# Applications
§ 404.610
What makes an application a claim for benefits?
We will consider your application a claim for benefits if it generally meets all of the following conditions:
(a) You must file on a prescribed form, as stated in § 404.611.
See
§ 422.505(a) of this chapter for the types of prescribed applications you can file.
(b) You must complete and file the application with us as stated in §§ 404.611 and 404.614.
(c) You, or someone described in § 404.612 who may sign an application for you, must sign the application.
(d) You must be alive at the time you file (unless one of the limited exceptions in § 404.615 applies).
[69 FR 498, Jan. 6, 2004]
§ 404.611
How do I file an application for Social Security benefits?
(a)
General rule.
You must apply for benefits on an application that we prescribe.
See
§ 422.505(a) of this chapter for the types of applications we will accept.
See
§ 404.614 for places where you can file your application for benefits.
(b)
What if I file a claim with the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB)?
If you file an application with the RRB on one of its forms for an annuity under section 2 of the Railroad Retirement Act, as amended, we will consider this an application for title II Social Security benefits, which you may be entitled to, unless you tell us otherwise.
(c)
What if I file a claim with the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA)?
If you file an application with the DVA on one of its forms for survivors' dependency and indemnity compensation (
see
section 3005 of title 38 U.S.C.), we will consider this an application for Social Security survivors' benefits, except for the lump sum death payment.
[69 FR 498, Jan. 6, 2004]
§ 404.612
Who may sign an application.
We will determine who may sign an application according to the following rules:
(a) A claimant who is 18 years old or over, mentally competent, and physically able to do so, must sign his or her own application. If the claim is for child's benefits for a person who is not yet 22 years old, the application may be signed by a parent or a person standing in place of the parent.
(b) A claimant who is between 16 and 18 years old may sign his or her own application if he or she is mentally competent, has no court appointed representative, and is not in the care of any person.
(c) If the claimant is under age 18, or mentally incompetent, or physically unable to sign, the application may be signed by a court appointed representative or a person who is responsible for the care of the claimant, including a relative. If the claimant is in the care of an institution, the manager or principal officer of the institution may sign the application.
(d) If a person who could receive disability benefits or who could have a period of disability established dies before filing, an application for disability benefits or for a period of disability may be signed by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due the deceased.
(e) If a written statement showing an intent to claim benefits is filed with us, but the person for whom the benefits are claimed dies before an application is filed, an application may be filed as explained in § 404.630(d).
(f) If a person who could receive benefits on the basis of a “deemed” filing date of an application under § 404.633 (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i) dies before an application for the benefits is filed, the application may be signed by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due the deceased person as explained in § 404.633 (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii).
(g) If it is necessary to protect a claimant from losing benefits and there is good cause for the claimant not signing the application, we may accept an application signed by some one other than a person described in this section.

# Example:
Mr. Smith comes to a social security office a few days before the end of a month to file an application for old-age benefits for his neighbor, Mr. Jones. Mr. Jones, a 63 year old widower, just suffered a heart attack and is in the hospital. He asked Mr. Smith to file the application for him. We will accept an application signed by Mr. Smith since it would not be possible to have Mr. Jones sign and file the application until the next calendar month and a loss of one month's benefits would result.
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 44923, Aug. 31, 1994; 61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 404.613
Evidence of authority to sign an application for another.
(a) A person who signs an application for someone else will be required to provide evidence of his or her authority to sign the application for the person claiming benefits under the following rules:
(1) If the person who signs is a court appointed representative, he or she must submit a certificate issued by the court showing authority to act for the claimant.
(2) If the person who signs is not a court appointed representative, he or she must submit a statement describing his or her relationship to the claimant. The statement must also describe the extent to which the person is responsible for the care of the claimant. This latter information will not be requested if the application is signed by a parent for a child with whom he or she is living.
(3) If the person who signs is the manager or principal officer of an institution which is responsible for the care of the claimant, he or she must submit a statement indicating the person's position of responsibility at the institution.
(b) We may, at any time, require additional evidence to establish the authority of a person to sign an application for someone else.
§ 404.614
When an application or other form is considered filed.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in §§ 404.630 through 404.633 which relate to the filing date of an application, an application for benefits, or a written statement, request, or notice is filed on the day it is received by an SSA employee at one of our offices or by an SSA employee who is authorized to receive it at a place other than one of our offices.
(b)
Other places and dates of filing.
We will also accept as the date of filing—
(1) The date an application for benefits, or a written statement, request or notice is received by any office of the U.S. Foreign Service or by the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines;
(2) The date an application for benefits or a written statement, request or notice is mailed to us by the U.S. mail, if using the date we receive it would result in the loss or lessening of rights. The date shown by a U.S. postmark will be used as the date of mailing. If the postmark is unreadable, or there is no postmark, we will consider other evidence of when you mailed it to us; or
(3) The date an application for benefits is filed with the Railroad Retirement Board or the Veterans Administration. See § 404.611 (b) and (c) for an
explanation of when an application for benefits filed with the Railroad Retirement Board or the Veterans Administration is considered an application for social security benefits.
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 44923, Aug. 31, 1994]
§ 404.615
Claimant must be alive when an application is filed.
A claimant must be alive at the time an application is filed. There are the following exceptions to this general rule:
(a) If a disabled person dies before filing an application for disability benefits or a period of disability, a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due the deceased may file an application. The application must be filed within 3 months after the month in which the disabled person died.
(b) If a written statement showing an intent to claim benefits is filed with us, but the person for whom the benefits are claimed dies before an application is filed, an application may be filed as explained in § 404.630(d).
(c) If a person who could receive benefits on the basis of a “deemed” filing date of an application under § 404.633 (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i) dies before an application for the benefits is filed, the application may be signed by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due the deceased person as explained in § 404.633 (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii).
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 44923, Aug. 31, 1994; 61 FR 41330, Aug. 8, 1996]
§ 404.617
Pilot program for photographic identification of disability benefit applicants in designated geographic areas.
(a) To be eligible for Social Security disability insurance benefits in the designated pilot geographic areas during the time period of the pilot, you or a person acting on your behalf must give SSA permission to take your photograph and make this photograph a part of the claims folder. You must give us this permission when you apply for benefits and/or when we ask for it at a later time. Failure to cooperate will result in denial of benefits. We will permit an exception to the photograph requirement when an individual has a sincere religious objection. This pilot will be in effect for a six-month period after these final rules become effective.
(b)
Designated pilot geographic areas means:
(1) All SSA field offices in the State of South Carolina.
(2) The Augusta, Georgia SSA field office.
(3) All SSA field offices in the State of Kansas.
(4) Selected SSA field offices located in New York City.
[68 FR 23194, May 1, 2003]

# Effective Filing Period of Application
§ 404.620
Filing before the first month you meet the requirements for benefits.
(a)
General rule.
If you file an application for benefits before the first month you meet all the other requirements for entitlement, the application will remain in effect until we make a final determination on your application unless there is an administrative law judge hearing decision on your application. If there is an administrative law judge hearing decision, your application will remain in effect until the administrative law judge hearing decision is issued.
(1) If you meet all the requirements for entitlement while your application is in effect, we may pay you benefits from the first month that you meet all the requirements.
(2) If you first meet all the requirements for entitlement after the period for which your application was in effect, you must file a new application for benefits. In this case, we may pay you benefits only from the first month that you meet all the requirements based on the new application.
(b) [Reserved]
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 4003, Feb. 9, 1987; 83 FR 21709, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.621
What happens if I file after the first month I meet the requirements for benefits?
(a)
Filing for disability benefits and for old-age, survivors', or dependents' benefits.
(1) If you file an application for
disability benefits, widow's or widower's benefits based on disability, or wife's, husband's, or child's benefits based on the earnings record of a person entitled to disability benefits, after the first month you could have been entitled to them, you may receive benefits for up to 12 months immediately before the month in which your application is filed. Your benefits may begin with the first month in this 12-month period in which you meet all the requirements for entitlement. Your entitlement, however, to wife's or husband's benefits under this rule is limited by paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2) If you file an application for old-age benefits, widow's or widower's benefits not based on disability, wife's, husband's, or child's benefits based on the earnings record of a person not entitled to disability benefits, or mother's, father's, or parent's benefits, after the first month you could have been entitled to them, you may receive benefits for up to 6 months immediately before the month in which your application is filed. Your benefits may begin with the first month in this 6-month period in which you meet all the requirements for entitlement. Your entitlement, however, to old-age, wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's benefits under this rule is limited by paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) If the effect of the payment of benefits for a month before the month you file would be to reduce your benefits because of your age, you cannot be entitled to old-age, wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's benefits for any month before the month in which your application is filed, unless you meet one of the conditions in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (An explanation of the reduction that occurs because of age if you are entitled to these benefits for a month before you reach full retirement age, as defined in § 404.409, is in § 404.410.) An example follows that assumes you do not meet any of the conditions in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

# Example:
You will attain full retirement age in March 2003. If you apply for old-age benefits in March, you cannot be entitled to benefits in the 6-month period before March because the payment of benefits for any of these months would result in your benefits being reduced for age. If you do not file your application until June 2003, you may be entitled to benefits for the month of March, April and May because the payment of benefits for these months would not result in your benefits being reduced for age. You will not, however, receive benefits for the 3 months before March.
(4) The limitation in paragraph (a)(3) of this section on your entitlement to old-age, wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's benefits for months before you file an application does not apply if:
(i) You are a widow, widower, surviving divorced wife, or surviving divorced husband who is disabled and could be entitled to retroactive benefits for any month before age 60. If you could not be entitled before age 60, the limitation will prevent payment of benefits to you for past months, but it will not affect the month you become entitled to hospital insurance benefits.
(ii) You are a widow, widower, or surviving divorced spouse of the insured person who died in the month before you applied and you were at least age 60 in the month of death of the insured person on whose earnings record you are claiming benefits. In this case, you can be entitled beginning with the month the insured person died if you choose and if you file your application on or after July 1, 1983.
(b)
Filing for lump-sum death payment.
An application for a lump-sum death payment must be filed within 2 years after the death of the person on whose earnings record the claim is filed. There are two exceptions to the 2-year filing requirement:
(1) If there is a good cause for failure to file within the 2-year period, we will consider your application as though it were filed within the 2-year period. Good cause does not exist if you were informed of the need to file an application within the 2-year period and you neglected to do so or did not desire to make a claim. Good cause will be found to exist if you did not file within the time limit due to—
(i) Circumstances beyond your control, such as extended illness, mental or physical incapacity, or a language barrier;
(ii) Incorrect or incomplete information we furnished you;
(iii) Your efforts to get evidence to support your claim without realizing that you could submit the evidence after filing an application; or
(iv) Unusual or unavoidable circumstances which show that you could not reasonably be expected to know of the time limit.
(2) The Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 provides for extending the filing time.
(c)
Filing for a period of disability.
You must file an application for a period of disability while you are disabled or no later than 12 months after the month in which your period of disability ended. If you were unable to apply within the 12-month time period because of a physical or mental condition, you may apply not more than 36 months after your disability ended. The general rule we use to decide whether your failure to file was due to a physical or mental condition is stated in § 404.322.
(d)
Filing after death of person eligible for disability benefits or period of disability.
If you file for disability benefits or a period of disability for another person who died before filing an application and you would qualify under § 404.503(b) to receive any benefits due the deceased, you must file an application no later than the end of the third month following the month in which the disabled person died.
[68 FR 4711, Jan. 30, 2003, as amended at 83 FR 21709, May 10, 2018]
§ 404.622
Limiting an application.
Your application may entitle you to benefits for up to 6 months or 12 months (depending on the type of benefit, as explained in § 404.621) before the month in which it is filed. You may limit the number of months of your entitlement in the 6-month or 12-month period. You may state this choice any time before a decision is made on your claim by indicating, in writing, the month you want your benefits to begin. You may change the first month of entitlement in this 6-month or 12-month period after a decision has been made on your claim under the following conditions:
(a) You file the request in writing.
(b) If you are filing for the claimant, he or she is alive when the request is filed.
(c) If any other person who is entitled to benefits would lose some or all of those benefits because of the change, that person, or the person who filed for him or her, consents in writing.
(d) Any benefit payments that would become improper as a result of the change in entitlement month are repaid, or we are satisfied that they will be repaid.
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 47445, Sept. 28, 1981]
§ 404.623
Am I required to file for all benefits if I am eligible for old-age and husband's or wife's benefits?
(a)
Presumed filing for husband's or wife's benefits.
If you file an application for old-age benefits, you are presumed to have filed an application for husband's or wife's benefits in the first month of your entitlement to old-age benefits, if—
(1) Your old-age benefits are reduced for age because you choose to receive them before you reach full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409); and
(2) You are eligible for either a husband's or a wife's benefit for the first month of your entitlement to old-age benefits.
(b)
Presumed filing for old-age benefits.
If you file an application for a husband's or a wife's benefit, you are presumed to have filed an application for old-age benefits in the first month of your entitlement to husband's or wife's benefits if—
(1) Your husband's or wife's benefits are reduced for age because you choose to receive them before you reach full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409); and
(2) You are eligible for old-age benefits for the first month of your entitlement to husband's or wife's benefits.
(c)
Exception.
Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply if you are also entitled to disability benefits in the first month of your entitlement to husband's or wife's benefits. In this event, you are presumed to have filed for old-age benefits only if your disability benefits end before you reach full retirement age (as defined in § 404.409).
[68 FR 4712, Jan. 30, 2003]

# Filing Date Based on Written Statement
§ 404.630
Use of date of written statement as filing date.
If a written statement, such as a letter, indicating your intent to claim benefits either for yourself or for another person is filed with us under the rules stated in § 404.614, we will use the filing date of the written statement as the filing date of the application, if all of the following requirements are met:
(a) The statement indicates an intent to claim benefits.
(b) The statement is signed by the claimant, the claimant's spouse, or a person described in § 404.612. If the claimant, the claimant's spouse, or a person described in § 404.612 telephones us and advises us of his or her intent to file a claim but cannot file an application before the end of the month, we will prepare and sign a written statement if it is necessary to prevent the loss of benefits. If the claimant, the claimant's spouse, or a person described in § 404.612 contacts us through the Internet by completing and transmitting the Personal Identification Information data on the Internet Social Security Benefit Application to us, we will use the date of the transmission as the filing date if it is necessary to prevent the loss of benefits.
(c) The claimant files an application with us on an application form as described in § 404.611, or one is filed for the claimant by a person described in § 404.612, within 6 months after the date of a notice we will send advising of the need to file an application. We will send the notice to the claimant. However, if it is clear from the information we receive that the claimant is a minor or is mentally incompetent, we will send the notice to the person who submitted the written statement.
(d) The claimant is alive when the application is filed; or if the claimant has died after the written statement was filed, an application is filed—
(1) By or for a person who would be eligible to receive benefits on the deceased's earnings record;
(2) By a person acting for the deceased's estate; or
(3) If the statement was filed with a hospital under § 404.632, by the hospital if—
(i) No person described in paragraph (d) (1) or (2) of this section can be located; or
(ii) A person described in paragraphs (d) (1) or (2) of this section is located but refuses or fails to file the application unless the refusal or failure to file is because it would be harmful to the deceased person or the deceased's estate.
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 71 FR 24814, Apr. 27, 2006]
§ 404.631
Statements filed with the Railroad Retirement Board.
A written statement filed with the Railroad Retirement Board will be considered a written statement filed with us under the rules in § 404.630 if—
(a) The statement indicates an intent to claim any payments under the Railroad Retirement Act;
(b) It bears the signature of the person filing the statement;
(c) No application is filed with the Railroad Retirement Board on one of its forms. If an application has been filed, we will use the date of filing of that application as determined by the Railroad Retirement Board (see § 404.614(b)(3)); and
(d) The statement is sent to us by the Railroad Retirement Board.
§ 404.632
Statements filed with a hospital.
A statement (generally a hospital admission form) filed with a hospital may serve as a written statement under § 404.630 if the requirements of this section are met. The statement will be considered filed with us as of the date it was filed with the hospital and will serve to protect entitlement to benefits. A statement filed with a hospital by you or some other person for you requesting or indicating an intent to claim benefits will be considered a written statement filed with us and § 404.630 will apply to it if—
(a) You are a patient in the hospital;
(b) The hospital provides services covered by hospital insurance under the Medicare program;
(c) An application has not already been filed; and
(d) The statement is sent to us.

# Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
§ 404.633
Deemed filing date in a case of misinformation.
(a)
General.
You may have considered applying for monthly benefits for yourself or for another person, and you may have contacted us in writing, by telephone or in person to inquire about filing an application for these benefits. It is possible that in responding to your inquiry, we may have given you misinformation about your eligibility for such benefits, or the eligibility of the person on whose behalf you were considering applying for benefits, which caused you not to file an application at that time. If this happened, and later an application for such benefits is filed with us, we may establish an earlier filing date under this section.

# Example 1:
Mrs. Smith, a widow of an insured individual, contacts a Social Security office when she reaches age 60 to inquire about applying for widow's insurance benefits. She is told by an SSA employee that she must be age 62 to be eligible for these benefits. This information, which was incorrect, causes Mrs. Smith not to file an application for benefits. When Mrs. Smith reaches age 62, she again contacts a Social Security office to ask about filing for widow's insurance benefits and learns that she could have received the benefits at age 60. She files an application for these benefits, provides the information required under paragraph (f) of this section to show that an SSA employee provided misinformation, and requests a deemed filing date based on the misinformation which she received from an SSA employee when she was age 60.

# Example 2:
Ms. Hill, a 22-year-old, is forced to stop work because of illness. When she contacts a Social Security office to inquire about applying for disability insurance benefits, she is told by an SSA employee that she must have 20 quarters of coverage out of the last 40 calendar quarters to be insured for disability insurance benefits. The employee fails to consider the special rules for insured status for persons who become disabled before age 31 and, consequently, tells Ms. Hill that she is not insured because she only has 16 quarters of coverage. The misinformation causes Ms. Hill not to file an application for disability insurance benefits. Because of her illness, she is unable to return to work. A year later, Ms. Hill reads an article that indicates that there are special rules for insured status for young workers who become disabled. She again contacts a Social Security office to inquire about benefits based on disability and learns that she was misinformed earlier about her insured status. She files an application for disability insurance benefits, provides the information required under paragraph (f) of this section to show that an SSA employee provided misinformation, and requests a deemed filing date based on the misinformation provided to her earlier.
(b)
Deemed filing date of an application based on misinformation.
Subject to the requirements and conditions in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for monthly benefits under the following provisions.
(1)(i) If we determine that you failed to apply for monthly benefits for yourself because we gave you misinformation about your eligibility for such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of—
(A) The date on which the misinformation was provided to you; or
(B) The date on which you met all of the requirements for entitlement to such benefits, other than the requirement of filing an application.
(ii) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for benefits for you under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, you or a person described in § 404.612 must file an application for such benefits. If you die before an application for the benefits is filed with us, we will consider establishing a deemed filing date of an application for such benefits only if an application for the benefits is filed with us by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due you.
(2)(i) If you had authority under § 404.612 to sign an application for benefits for another person, and we determine that you failed to apply for monthly benefits for that person because we gave you misinformation about that person's eligibility for such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of—
(A) The date on which the misinformation was provided to you; or
(B) The date on which the person met all of the requirements for entitlement to such benefits, other than the requirement of filing an application.
(ii) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for benefits for the person under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, you, such person, or another person described in § 404.612 must file an application for such benefits. If the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section dies before an application for the benefits is filed with us, we will consider establishing a deemed filing date of an application for such benefits only if an application for the benefits is filed with us by a person who would be qualified to receive any benefits due the deceased person.
(c)
Requirements concerning the misinformation.
We apply the following requirements for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The misinformation must have been provided to you by one of our employees while he or she was acting in his or her official capacity as our employee. For purposes of this section, an employee includes an officer of SSA.
(2) Misinformation is information which we consider to be incorrect, misleading, or incomplete in view of the facts which you gave to the employee, or of which the employee was aware or should have been aware, regarding your particular circumstances, or the particular circumstances of the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In addition, for us to find that the information you received was incomplete, the employee must have failed to provide you with the appropriate, additional information which he or she would be required to provide in carrying out his or her official duties.
(3) The misinformation may have been provided to you orally or in writing.
(4) The misinformation must have been provided to you in response to a specific request by you to us for information about your eligibility for benefits or the eligibility for benefits of the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for which you were considering filing an application.
(d)
Evidence that misinformation was provided.
We will consider the following evidence in making a determination under paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence is written evidence which relates directly to your inquiry about your eligibility for benefits or the eligibility of another person and which shows that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Preferred evidence includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(i) A notice, letter or other document which was issued by us and addressed to you; or
(ii) Our record of your telephone call, letter or in-person contact.
(2)
Other evidence.
In the absence of preferred evidence, we will consider other evidence, including your statements about the alleged misinformation, to determine whether we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. We will not find that we gave you misinformation, however, based solely on your statements. Other evidence which you provide or which we obtain must support your statements. Evidence which we will consider includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(i) Your statements about the alleged misinformation, including statements about—
(A) The date and time of the alleged contact(s);
(B) How the contact was made, e.g., by telephone or in person;
(C) The reason(s) the contact was made;
(D) Who gave the misinformation; and
(E) The questions you asked and the facts you gave us, and the questions we asked and the information we gave you, at the time of the contact;
(ii) Statements from others who were present when you were given the alleged misinformation, e.g., a neighbor who accompanied you to our office;
(iii) If you can identify the employee or the employee can recall your inquiry about benefits—
(A) Statements from the employee concerning the alleged contact, including statements about the questions you asked, the facts you gave, the questions the employee asked, and the information provided to you at the time of the alleged contact; and
(B) Our assessment of the likelihood that the employee provided the alleged misinformation;
(iv) An evaluation of the credibility and the validity of your allegations in conjunction with other relevant information; and
(v) Any other information regarding your alleged contact.
(e)
Information which does not constitute satisfactory proof that misinformation was given.
Certain kinds of information will not be considered satisfactory proof that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Examples of such information include—
(1) General informational pamphlets that we issue to provide basic program information;
(2) The Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement that is based on an individual's reported and projected earnings and is an estimate which can be requested at any time;
(3) General information which we review or prepare but which is disseminated by the media, e.g., radio, television, magazines, and newspapers; and
(4) Information provided by other governmental agencies, e.g., the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, State unemployment agencies, and State and local governments.
(f)
Claim for benefits based on misinformation.
You may make a claim for benefits based on misinformation at any time. Your claim must contain information that will enable us to determine if we did provide misinformation to you about your eligibility for benefits, or the eligibility of a person on whose behalf you were considering applying for benefits, which caused you not to file an application for the benefits. Specifically, your claim must be in writing and it must explain what information was provided; how, when and where it was provided and by whom; and why the information caused you not to file an application. If you give us this information, we will make a determination on such a claim for benefits if all of the following conditions are also met.
(1) An application for the benefits described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i) of this section is filed with us by someone described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section, as appropriate. The application must be filed after the alleged misinformation was provided. This application may be—
(i) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision awarding the benefits, but only if the claimant continues to be entitled to benefits based on that application;
(ii) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision denying the benefits, but only if such determination or decision is reopened under § 404.988; or
(iii) A new application on which we have not made a final determination or decision.
(2) The establishment of a deemed filing date of an application for benefits based on misinformation could result in the claimant becoming entitled to benefits or to additional benefits.
(3) We have not made a previous final determination or decision to which you were a party on a claim for benefits based on alleged misinformation involving the same facts and issues. This provision does not apply, however, if the final determination or decision may be reopened under § 404.988.
(g)
Effective date.
This section applies only to misinformation which we provided after December 1982. In addition, this section is effective only for benefits payable for months after December 1982.
[59 FR 44924, Aug. 31, 1994]

# Withdrawal of Application
§ 404.640
Withdrawal of an application.
(a)
Request for withdrawal filed before a determination is made.
An application may be withdrawn before we make a determination on it if—
(1) A written request for withdrawal is filed at a place described in § 404.614 by the claimant or a person who may sign an application for the claimant under § 404.612; and
(2) The claimant is alive at the time the request is filed.
(b)
Request for withdrawal filed after a determination is made.
An application may be withdrawn after we make a determination on it if—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are met;
(2) Any other person whose entitlement would be rendered erroneous because of the withdrawal consents in writing to it. Written consent for the person may be given by someone who could sign an application for him or her under § 404.612; and
(3) All benefits already paid based on the application being withdrawn are repaid or we are satisfied that they will be repaid.
(4)
Old age benefits.
An old age benefit application may be withdrawn if, in addition to the requirements of this section—
(i) The request for withdrawal is filed within 12 months of the first month of entitlement; and
(ii) The claimant has not previously withdrawn an application for old age benefits.
(c)
Request for withdrawal filed after the claimant's death.
An application may be withdrawn after the claimant's death, regardless of whether we have made a determination on it, if—
(1) The claimant's application was for old-age benefits that would be reduced because of his or her age;
(2) The claimant died before we certified his or her benefit entitlement to the Treasury Department for payment;
(3) A written request for withdrawal is filed at a place described in § 404.614 by or for the person eligible for widow's or widower's benefits based on the claimant's earnings; and
(4) The conditions in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section are met.
(d)
Effect of withdrawal.
If we approve a request to withdraw an application, the application will be considered as though it was never filed. If we disapprove a request for withdrawal, the application is treated as though the request was never filed.
[44 FR 37209, June 26, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21931, May 16, 1983; 51 FR 37720, Oct. 24, 1986; 75 FR 76259, Dec. 8, 2010]
§ 404.641
Cancellation of a request to withdraw.
A request to withdraw an application may be cancelled and the application reinstated if—
(a) A written request for cancellation is filed at a place described in § 404.614 by the claimant or someone who may sign an application for the claimant under § 404.612;
(b) The claimant is alive at the time the request for cancellation is filed; and
(c) For a cancellation request received after we have approved the withdrawal, the request is filed no later than 60 days after the date of the notice of approval.

# Subpart H—Evidence

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 405(a), 902(a)(5), and 1320e-3.

# General
§ 404.701
Introduction.
This subpart contains the Social Security Administration's basic rules about what evidence is needed when a person claims old-age, disability, dependents' and survivors' insurance benefits as described in subpart D. In addition, there are special evidence requirements for disability benefits. These are contained in subpart P. Evidence of a person's earnings under social security is described in subpart I. Evidence needed to obtain a social security number card is described in part 422. Evidence requirements for the supplemental security income program are contained in part 416.
§ 404.702
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Apply
means to sign a form or statement that the Social Security Administration accepts as an application for benefits under the rules set out in subpart G.
Benefits
means any old-age, disability, dependents' and survivors' insurance benefits described in subpart D, including a period of disability.
Convincing evidence
means one or more pieces of evidence that prove you meet a requirement for eligibility. See § 404.708 for the guides we use in deciding whether evidence is convincing.
Eligible
means that a person would meet all the requirements for entitlement to benefits for a period of time but has not yet applied.
Entitled
means that a person has applied and has proven his or her right to benefits for a period of time.
Evidence
means any record, document, or signed statement that helps to show whether you are eligible for benefits or whether you are still entitled to benefits.
Insured person
means someone who has enough earnings under social security to permit the payment of benefits on his or her earnings record. He or she is
fully insured, transitionally insured, currently insured,
or
insured for disability
as defined in subpart B.
Participating payroll data provider
means a payroll data provider that has established an information exchange with us to provide wage and employment information.
Payroll data provider
means payroll providers, wage verification companies, and other commercial or non-commercial entities that collect and maintain information regarding employment and wages.
We
or
Us
refers to the Social Security Administration.
You
refers to the person who has applied for benefits, or the person for whom someone else has applied.
[43 FR 24795, June 7, 1978, as amended at 89 FR 107258, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 404.703
When evidence is needed.
(a)
Evidence.
When you apply for benefits, we will ask for evidence that you are eligible for them. After you become entitled to benefits, we may ask for evidence showing whether you continue to be entitled to benefits; or evidence showing whether your benefit payments should be reduced or stopped. See § 404.401 for a list showing when benefit payments must be reduced or stopped.
(b)
Authorization to obtain data from a payroll data provider.
(1) We will ask you for a written authorization to obtain information about you from a payroll data provider whenever we determine the information is needed in connection with a determination of initial or ongoing entitlement to benefits.
(2) When we ask for your authorization, we will explain the authorization's scope and duration.
(i) We will explain to you that we will use the information obtained from a payroll data provider when it is needed in connection with a determination of initial or ongoing entitlement to title II benefits based on disability, or for eligibility or the amount of benefits under the Supplemental Security Income program of title XVI of the Social Security Act, and to prevent improper payments. We will explain to you that we may also use the authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider for claims associated with the claim filed, such as a claim for benefits by a spouse or child. We will also explain that we may use and disclose your information consistent with applicable Federal law (see,
e.g.,
part 401 of this chapter) and any privacy notices we provide to you.
(ii) We will also inform you that your authorization will remain effective until the earliest of one of the following occurrences:
(A) You revoke your authorization in writing (see § 404.1588(b)(4));
(B) We have terminated all entitlement for benefits, you have no other claims or appeals pending under this title, and the period for appealing the determination or decision terminating entitlement has lapsed; or
(C) There has been an adverse determination or decision on your claim, you have no other claims or appeals pending under this title, and the period for appealing the adverse determination or decision has lapsed.
[89 FR 107258, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 404.704
Your responsibility for giving evidence.
When evidence is needed to prove your eligibility or your right to continue to receive benefit payments, you will be responsible for obtaining and giving the evidence to us. We will be glad to advise you what is needed and how to get it and we will consider any evidence you give us. If your evidence is a foreign-language record or document, we can have it translated for you. Evidence given to us will be kept confidential and not disclosed to anyone but you except under the rules set out in part 401. You should also be aware that Section 208 of the Social Security Act provides criminal penalties for misrepresenting the facts or for making false statements to obtain social security benefits for yourself or someone else.
§ 404.705
Failure to give requested evidence.
Generally, you will be asked to give us by a certain date specific kinds of evidence or information to prove you are eligible for benefits. If we do not receive the evidence or information by that date, we may decide you are not eligible for benefits. If you are already receiving benefits, you may be asked to give us by a certain date information needed to decide whether you continue to be entitled to benefits or whether your benefits should be stopped or reduced. If you do not give us the requested information by the date given, we may decide that you are no longer entitled to benefits or that your benefits should be stopped or reduced. You should let us know if you are unable to give us the requested evidence within the specified time and explain why there will be a delay. If this delay is due to illness, failure to receive timely evidence you have asked for from another source, or a similar circumstance, you will be given additional time to give us the evidence.
§ 404.706
Where to give evidence.
Evidence should be given to the people at a Social Security Administration office. In the Philippines evidence should be given to the people at the Veterans Administration Regional Office. Elsewhere outside the United States, evidence should be given to the people at a United States Foreign Service Office.
§ 404.707
Original records or copies as evidence.
(a)
General.
To prove your eligibility or continuing entitlement to benefits, you may be asked to show us an original document or record. These original records or documents will be returned to you after we have photocopied them. We will also accept copies of original records that are properly certified and some uncertified birth notifications. These types of records are described below in this section.
(b)
Certified copies of original records.
You may give us copies of original records or extracts from records if they are certified as true and exact copies by—
(1) The official custodian of the record;
(2) A Social Security Administration employee authorized to certify copies;
(3) A Veterans Administration employee if the evidence was given to that agency to obtain veteran's benefits;
(4) A U.S. Consular Officer or employee of the Department of State authorized to certify evidence received outside the United States; or
(5) An employee of a State Agency or State Welfare Office authorized to certify copies of original records in the agency's or office's files.
(c)
Uncertified copies of original records.
You may give us an uncertified photocopy of a birth registration notification as evidence where it is the practice of the local birth registrar to issue them in this way.
§ 404.708
How we decide what is enough evidence.
When you give us evidence, we examine it to see if it is convincing evidence. If it is, no other evidence is needed. In deciding if evidence is convincing, we consider whether—
(a) Information contained in the evidence was given by a person in a position to know the facts;
(b) There was any reason to give false information when the evidence was created;
(c) Information contained in the evidence was given under oath, or with witnesses present, or with the knowledge there was a penalty for giving false information;
(d) The evidence was created at the time the event took place or shortly thereafter;
(e) The evidence has been altered or has any erasures on it; and
(f) Information contained in the evidence agrees with other available evidence, including our records.
§ 404.709
Preferred evidence and other evidence.
If you give us the type of evidence we have shown as
preferred
in the following sections of this subpart, we will generally find it is convincing evidence. This means that unless we have information in our records that raises
a doubt about the evidence, other evidence of the same fact will not be needed. If preferred evidence is not available, we will consider any other evidence you give us. If this other evidence is several different records or documents which all show the same information, we may decide it is convincing evidence even though it is not
preferred
evidence. If the other evidence is not convincing by itself, we will ask for additional evidence. If this additional evidence shows the same information, all the evidence considered together may be convincing. When we have convincing evidence of the facts that must be proven or it is clear that the evidence provided does not prove the necessary facts, we will make a formal decision about your benefit rights.

# Evidence of Age, Marriage, and Death
§ 404.715
When evidence of age is needed.
(a) If you apply for benefits, we will ask for evidence of age which shows your date of birth unless you are applying for—
(1) A lump-sum death payment;
(2) A wife's benefit and you have the insured person's child in your care;
(3) A mother's or father's benefit; or
(4) A disability benefit (or for a period of disability) and neither your eligibility nor benefit amount depends upon your age.
(b) If you apply for wife's benefits while under age 62 or if you apply for a mother's or father's benefit, you will be asked for evidence of the date of birth of the insured person's children in your care.
(c) If you apply for benefits on the earnings record of a deceased person, you may be asked for evidence of his or her age if this is needed to decide whether he or she was insured at the time of death or what benefit amount is payable to you.
§ 404.716
Type of evidence of age to be given.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
The best evidence of your age, if you can obtain it, is either: a birth certificate or hospital birth record recorded before age 5; or a religious record which shows your date of birth and was recorded before age 5.
(b)
Other evidence of age.
If you cannot obtain the preferred evidence of your age, you will be asked for other convincing evidence that shows your date of birth or age at a certain time such as: an original family bible or family record; school records; census records; a statement signed by the physician or midwife who was present at your birth; insurance policies; a marriage record; a passport; an employment record; a delayed birth certificate, your child's birth certificate; or an immigration or naturalization record.
§ 404.720
Evidence of a person's death.
(a)
When evidence of death is required.
If you apply for benefits on the record of a deceased person, we will ask for evidence of the date and place of his or her death. We may also ask for evidence of another person's death if this is needed to prove you are eligible for benefits.
(b)
Preferred evidence of death.
The best evidence of a person's death is—
(1) A certified copy or extract from the public record of death, coroner's report of death, or verdict of a coroner's jury; or a certificate by the custodian of the public record of death;
(2) A statement of the funeral director, attending physician, intern of the institution where death occurred;
(3) A certified copy of, or extract from an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States; or
(4) If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or other employee of the State Department; or a copy of the public record of death in the foreign country.
(c)
Other evidence of death.
If you cannot obtain the preferred evidence of a person's death, you will be asked to explain why and to give us other convincing evidence such as: the signed statements of two or more people with personal knowledge of the death, giving the place, date, and cause of death.
§ 404.721
Evidence to presume a person is dead.
If you cannot prove the person is dead but evidence of death is needed, we will presume he or she died at a certain time if you give us the following evidence:
(a) A certified copy of, or extract from, an official report or finding by an agency or department of the United States that a missing person is
presumed to be
dead as set out in Federal law (5 U.S.C. 5565). Unless we have other evidence showing an actual date of death, we will use the date he or she was reported missing as the date of death.
(b) Signed statements by those in a position to know and other records which show that the person has been absent from his or her residence and has not been heard from for at least 7 years. If the presumption of death is not rebutted pursuant to § 404.722, we will use as the person's date of death either the date he or she left home, the date ending the 7 year period, or some other date depending upon what the evidence shows is the most likely date of death.
(c) If you are applying for benefits as the insured person's grandchild or stepgrandchild but the evidence does not identify a parent, we will presume the parent died in the first month in which the insured person became entitled to benefits.
[43 FR 24795, June 7, 1978, as amended at 60 FR 19164, Apr. 17, 1995]
§ 404.722
Rebuttal of a presumption of death.
A presumption of death made based on § 404.721(b) can be rebutted by evidence that establishes that the person is still alive or explains the individual's absence in a manner consistent with continued life rather than death.

# Example 1:
Evidence in a claim for surviving child's benefits showed that the worker had wages posted to his earnings record in the year following the disappearance. It was established that the wages belonged to the worker and were for work done after his “disappearance.” In this situation, the presumption of death is rebutted by evidence (wages belonging to the worker) that the person is still alive after the disappearance.

# Example 2:
Evidence shows that the worker left the family home shortly after a woman, whom he had been seeing, also disappeared, and that the worker phoned his wife several days after the disappearance to state he intended to begin a new life in California. In this situation the presumption of death is rebutted because the evidence explains the worker's absence in a manner consistent with continued life.
[60 FR 19165, Apr. 17, 1995]
§ 404.723
When evidence of marriage is required.
If you apply for benefits as the insured person's husband or wife, widow or widower, divorced wife or divorced husband, we will ask for evidence of the marriage and where and when it took place. We may also ask for this evidence if you apply for child's benefits or for the lump-sum death payment as the widow or widower. If you are a widow, widower, or divorced wife who remarried after your marriage to the insured person ended, we may also ask for evidence of the remarriage. You may be asked for evidence of someone else's marriage if this is necessary to prove your marriage to the insured person was valid. In deciding whether the marriage to the insured person is valid or not, we will follow the law of the State where the insured person had his or her permanent home when you applied or, if earlier, when he or she died—see § 404.770. What evidence we will ask for depends upon whether the insured person's marriage was a ceremonial marriage, a common-law marriage, or a marriage we will deem to be valid.
[43 FR 24795, June 7, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 34493, June 15, 1979]
§ 404.725
Evidence of a valid ceremonial marriage.
(a)
General.
A valid
ceremonial marriage
is one that follows procedures set by law in the State or foreign country where it takes place. These procedures cover who may perform the marriage ceremony, what licenses or witnesses are needed, and similar rules. A ceremonial marriage can be one that follows certain tribal Indian custom, Chinese custom, or similar traditional procedures. We will ask for the evidence described in this section.
(b)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence of a ceremonial marriage is—
(1) If you are applying for wife's or husband's benefits, signed statements from you and the insured about when and where the marriage took place. If you are applying for the lump-sum death payment as the widow or widower, your signed statement about when and where the marriage took place; or
(2) If you are applying for any other benefits or there is evidence causing some doubt about whether there was a ceremonial marriage: a copy of the public record of marriage or a certified statement as to the marriage; a copy of the religious record of marriage or a certified statement as to what the record shows; or the original marriage certificate.
(c)
Other evidence of a ceremonial marriage.
If preferred evidence of a ceremonial marriage cannot be obtained, we will ask you to explain why and to give us a signed statement of the clergyman or official who held the marriage ceremony, or other convincing evidence of the marriage.
§ 404.726
Evidence of common-law marriage.
(a)
General.
A
common-law marriage
is one considered valid under certain State laws even though there was no formal ceremony. It is a marriage between two persons free to marry, who consider themselves married, live together as man and wife, and, in some States, meet certain other requirements. We will ask for the evidence described in this section.
(b)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence of a common-law marriage is—
(1) If both the husband and wife are alive, their signed statements and those of two blood relatives;
(2) If either the husband or wife is dead, the signed statements of the one who is alive and those of two blood relatives of the deceased person; or
(3) If both the husband and wife are dead, the signed statements of one blood relative of each;

# Note:
All signed statements should show why the signer believes there was a marriage between the two persons. If a written statement cannot be gotten from a blood relative, one from another person can be used instead.
(c)
Other evidence of common-law marriage.
If you cannot get preferred evidence of a common-law marriage, we will ask you to explain why and to give us other convincing evidence of the marriage. We may not ask you for statements from a blood relative or other person if we believe other evidence presented to us proves the common-law marriage.
§ 404.727
Evidence of a deemed valid marriage.
(a)
General.
A
deemed valid marriage
is a ceremonial marriage we consider valid even though the correct procedures set by State law were not strictly followed or a former marriage had not yet ended. We will ask for the evidence described in this section.
(b)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence of a deemed valid marriage is—
(1) Evidence of the ceremonial marriage as described in § 404.725(b)(2);
(2) If the insured person is alive, his or her signed statement that the other party to the marriage went through the ceremony in good faith and his or her reasons for believing the marriage was valid or believing the other party thought it was valid;
(3) The other party's signed statement that he or she went through the marriage ceremony in good faith and his or her reasons for believing it was valid;
(4) If needed to remove a reasonable doubt, the signed statements of others who might have information about what the other party knew about any previous marriage or other facts showing whether he or she went through the marriage in good faith; and
(5) Evidence the parties to the marriage were living in the same household when you applied for benefits or, if earlier, when the insured person died (see § 404.760).
(c)
Other evidence of a deemed valid marriage.
If you cannot obtain preferred evidence of a deemed valid marriage, we will ask you to explain why and to give us other convincing evidence of the marriage.
§ 404.728
Evidence a marriage has ended.
(a)
When evidence is needed that a marriage has ended.
If you apply for benefits as the insured person's divorced wife or divorced husband, you will be asked for evidence of your divorce. If you are the insured person's widow or divorced wife who had remarried but that husband died, we will ask you for evidence of his death. We may ask for evidence that a previous marriage you or the insured person had was ended before you married each other if this is needed to show the latter marriage was valid. If you apply for benefits as an unmarried person and you had a marriage which was annulled, we will ask for evidence of the annulment. We will ask for the evidence described in this section.
(b)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence a marriage has ended is—
(1) A certified copy of the decree of divorce or annulment; or
(2) Evidence the person you married has died (see § 404.720).
(c)
Other evidence a marriage has ended.
If you cannot obtain preferred evidence the marriage has ended, we will ask you to explain why and to give us other convincing evidence the marriage has ended.
[43 FR 24795, June 7, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 34493, June 15, 1979]

# Evidence for Child's and Parent's Benefits
§ 404.730
When evidence of a parent or child relationship is needed.
If you apply for parent's or child's benefits, we will ask for evidence showing your relationship to the insured person. What evidence we will ask for depends on whether you are the insured person's natural parent or child; or whether you are the stepparent, stepchild, grandchild, stepgrandchild, adopting parent or adopted child.
§ 404.731
Evidence you are a natural parent or child.
If you are the natural parent of the insured person, we will ask for a copy of his or her public or religious birth record made before age 5. If you are the natural child of the insured person, we will ask for a copy of your public or religious birth record made before age 5. In either case, if this record shows the same last name for the insured and the parent or child, we will accept it as convincing evidence of the relationship. However, if other evidence raises some doubt about this record or if the record cannot be gotten, we will ask for other evidence of the relationship. We may also ask for evidence of marriage of the insured person or of his or her parent if this is needed to remove any reasonable doubt about the relationship. To show you are the child of the insured person, you may be asked for evidence you would be able to inherit his or her personal property under State law where he or she had a permanent home (see § 404.770). In addition, we may ask for the insured persons signed statement that you are his or her natural child, or for a copy of any court order showing the insured has been declared to be your natural parent or any court order requiring the insured to contribute to you support because you are his or her son or daughter.
§ 404.732
Evidence you are a stepparent or stepchild.
If you are the stepparent or stepchild of the insured person, we will ask for the evidence described in § 404.731 or § 404.733 that which shows your natural or adoptive relationship to the insured person's husband, wife, widow, or widower. We will also ask for evidence of the husband's, wife's, widow's, or widower's marriage to the insured person—see § 404.725.
§ 404.733
Evidence you are the legally adopting parent or legally adopted child.
If you are the adopting parent or adopted child, we will ask for the following evidence:
(a) A copy of the birth certificate made following the adoption; or if this cannot be gotten, other evidence of the adoption; and, if needed, evidence of the date of adoption;
(b) If the widow or widower adopted the child after the insured person died, the evidence described in paragraph (a) of this section; your written statement whether the insured person was living in the same household with the child
when he or she died (see § 404.760); what support the child was getting from any other person or organization; and if the widow or widower had a deemed valid marriage with the insured person, evidence of that marriage—see § 404.727;
(c) If you are the insured's stepchild, grandchild, or stepgrandchild as well as his or her adopted child, we may also ask you for evidence to show how you were related to the insured before the adoption.
§ 404.734
Evidence you are an equitably adopted child.
In many States, the law will treat someone as a child of another if he or she agreed to adopt the child, the natural parents or the person caring for the child were parties to the agreement, he or she and the child then lived together as parent and child, and certain other requirements are met. If you are a child who had this kind or relationship to the insured person (or to the insured person's wife, widow, or husband), we will ask for evidence of the agreement if it is in writing. If it is not in writing or cannot be gotten, other evidence may be accepted. Also, the following evidence will be asked for: Written statements of your natural parents and the adopting parents and other evidence of the child's relationship to the adopting parents.
§ 404.735
Evidence you are the grandchild or stepgrandchild.
If you are the grandchild or stepgrandchild of the insured person, we will ask you for the kind of evidence described in §§ 404.731 through 404.733 that shows your relationship to your parent and your parent's relationship to the insured.
§ 404.736
Evidence of a child's dependency.
(a)
When evidence of a child's dependency is needed.
If you apply for child's benefit's we may ask for evidence you were the insured person's dependent at a specific time—usually the time you applied or the time the insured died or became disabled. What evidence we ask for depends upon how you are related to the insured person.
(b)
Natural or adopted child.
If you are the insured person's natural or adopted child, we may ask for the following evidence:
(1) A signed statement by someone who knows the facts that confirms this relationship and which shows whether you were legally adopted by someone other than the insured. If you were adopted by someone else while the insured person was alive, but the adoption was annulled, we may ask for a certified copy of the annulment decree or other convincing evidence of the annulment.
(2) A signed statement by someone in a position to know showing when and where you lived with the insured and when and why you may have lived apart; and showing what contributions the insured made to your support and when and how they were made.
(c)
Stepchild.
If you are the insured person's stepchild, we will ask for the following evidence:
(1) A signed statement by someone in a position to know—showing when and where you lived with the insured and when and why you may have lived apart.
(2) A signed statement by someone in a position to know showing you received at least one-half of your support from the insured for the one-year period ending at one of the times mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section; and the income end support you had in this period from any other source.
(d)
Grandchild or Stepgrandchild.
If you are the insured person's grandchild or stepgrandchild, we will ask for evidence described in paragraph (c) of this section showing that you were living together with the insured and receiving one-half of your support from him or her for the year before the insured became entitled to benefits or to a period of disability, or died. We will also ask for evidence of your parent's death or disability.
§ 404.745
Evidence of school attendance for child age 18 or older.
If you apply for child's benefits as a student age 18 or over, we may ask for evidence you are attending school. We may also ask for evidence from the school you attend showing your status at the school. We will ask for the following evidence:
(a) Your signed statement that you are attending school full-time and are not being paid by an employer to attend school.
(b) If you apply before the school year has started and the school is not a high school, a letter of acceptance from the school, receipted bill, or other evidence showing you have enrolled or been accepted at that school.
§ 404.750
Evidence of a parent's support.
If you apply for parent's benefits, we will ask you for evidence to show that you received at least one-half of your support from the insured person in the one-year period before he or she died or became disabled. We may also ask others who know the facts for a signed statement about your sources of support. We will ask you for the following evidence:
(a) The parent's signed statement showing his or her income, any other sources of support, and the amount from each source over the one-year period.
(b) If the statement described in paragraph (a) of this section cannot be obtained, other convincing evidence that the parent received one-half of his or her support from the insured person.

# Other Evidence Requirements
§ 404.760
Evidence of living in the same household with insured person.
If you apply for the lump-sum death payment as the insured person's widow or widower, or for wife's, husband's, widow's, or widower's benefits based upon a deemed valid marriage as described in § 404.727, we will ask for evidence you and the insured were living together in the same household when he or she died; or if the insured is alive, when you applied for benefits. We will ask for the following as evidence of this:
(a) If the insured person is living, his or her signed statement and yours showing whether you were living together when you applied for benefits.
(b) If the insured person is dead, your signed statement showing whether you were living together when he or she died.
(c) If you and the insured person were temporarily living apart, a signed statement explaining where each was living, how long the separation lasted, and why you were separated. If needed to remove any reasonable doubts about this, we may ask for the signed statements of others in a position to know, or for other convincing evidence you and the insured were living together in the same household.
§ 404.762
What is acceptable evidence of having a child in my care?
What evidence we will ask for depends upon whether the child is living with you or with someone else. You will be asked to give the following evidence:
(a) If the child is living with you, your signed statement showing that the child is living with you.
(b) If the child is living with someone else—
(1) Your signed statement showing with whom he or she is living and why he or she is living with someone else. We will also ask when he or she last lived with you and how long this separation will last, and what care and contributions you provide for the child;
(2) The signed statement of the one with whom the child is living showing what care you provide and the sources and amounts of support received for the child. If the child is in an institution, an official there should sign the statement. These statements are preferred evidence. If there is a court order or written agreement showing who has custody of the child, you may be asked to give us a copy; and
(3) If you cannot get the preferred evidence described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, we will ask for other convincing evidence that the child is in your care.
[43 FR 24795, June 7, 1978, as amended at 73 FR 40967, July 17, 2008]
§ 404.770
Evidence of where the insured person had a permanent home.
(a)
When evidence of the insured's permanent home is needed.
We may ask for evidence of where the insured person's permanent home was at the time you applied or, if earlier, the time he or she died if—
(1) You apply for benefits as the insured's wife, husband, widow, widower, parent or child; and
(2) Your relationship to the insured depends upon the State law that would be followed in the place where the insured had his or her permanent home when you applied for benefits or when he or she died.
(b)
What evidence is needed.
We will ask for the following evidence of the insured person's permanent home:
(1) Your signed statement showing where the insured considered his permanent home to be.
(2) If the statement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or other evidence we have raises a reasonable doubt about where the insured's permanent home was, evidence of where he or she paid personal, property, or income taxes, or voted; or other convincing evidence of where his or her permanent home was.
§ 404.780
Evidence of “good cause” for exceeding time limits on accepting proof of support or application for a lump-sum death payment.
(a)
When evidence of good cause
is needed. We may ask for evidence that you had
good cause
(as defined in § 404.370(f)) for not giving us sooner proof of the support you received from the insured as his or her parent. We may also ask for evidence that you had
good cause
(as defined in § 404.621(b)) for not applying sooner for the lump-sum death payment. You may be asked for evidence of
good cause
for these delays if—
(1) You are the insured person's parent giving us proof of support more than 2 years after he or she died, or became disabled; or
(2) You are applying for the lump-sum death payment more than 2 years after the insured died.
(b)
What evidence of good cause
is needed. We will ask for the following evidence of good cause:
(1) Your signed statement explaining why you did not give us the proof of support or the application for lump-sum death payment within the specified 2 year period.
(2) If the statement in paragraph (b)(1) of the section or other evidence raises a reasonable doubt whether there was good cause, other convincing evidence of this.
[43 FR 24795, June 7, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 34493, June 15, 1979]

# Subpart I—Records of Earnings

# Authority:
Secs. 205(a), (c)(1), (c)(2)(A), (c)(4), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (p), 702(a)(5), and 1143 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), (c)(1), (c)(2)(A), (c)(4), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (p), 902(a)(5), and 1320b-13).

# Source:
44 FR 38454, July 2, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 404.801
Introduction.
The Social Security Administration (SSA) keeps a record of the earnings of all persons who work in employment or self-employment covered under social security. We use these earnings records to determine entitlement to and the amount of benefits that may be payable based on a person's earnings under the retirement, survivors', disability and health insurance program. This subpart tells what is evidence of earnings, how you can find out what the record of your earnings shows, and how and under what circumstances the record of your earnings may be changed to correct errors.
§ 404.802
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart—
Earnings
means wages and self-employment income earned by a person based on work covered by social security. (See subpart K for the rules about what constitutes wages and self-employment income for benefit purposes.)
Period
means a taxable year when referring to self-employment income. When referring to wages it means a calendar quarter if the wages were reported or should have been reported quarterly by your employer or a calendar year if the wages were reported or should have been reported annually by your employer.
Record of earnings, earnings record,
or
record
means SSA's records of the amounts of wages paid to you and the amounts of self-employment income you received, the periods in which the wages were paid and the self-employment income was received, and the
quarters of coverage which you earned based on these earnings.
Survivor
means your spouse, divorced wife, child, or parent, who survives you.
Survivor
also includes your surviving divorced wife who may be entitled to benefits as a surviving divorced mother.
Tax return
means, as appropriate, a tax return of wages or a tax return of self-employment income (including information returns and other written statements filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue under chapter 2 or 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended).
Time limit
means a period of time 3 years, 3 months, and 15 days after any year in which you received earnings. The period may be extended by the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Act of 1940 because of your military service or the military service of certain relatives who survive you (50 U.S.C. App. 501 and following sections). Where the time limit ends on a Federal nonwork day, we will extend it to the next Federal work day.
Wage report
means a statement filed by a State under section 218 of the Social Security Act or related regulations. This statement includes wage amounts for which a State is billed and wage amounts for which credits or refunds are made to a State according to an agreement under section 218 of the Act.
We, us,
or
our
means the Social Security Administration (SSA).
Year
means a calendar year when referring to wages and a taxable year when referring to self-employment income.
You
or
your
means any person for whom we maintain a record of earnings.
§ 404.803
Conclusiveness of the record of your earnings.
(a)
Generally.
For social security purposes, SSA records are evidence of the amounts of your earnings and the periods in which they were received.
(b)
Before time limit ends.
Before the time limit ends for a year, SSA records are evidence, but not conclusive evidence, of the amounts and periods of your earnings in that year.
(c)
After time limit ends.
After the time limit ends for a year—
(1) If SSA records show an entry of self-employment income or wages for an employer for a period in that year, our records are conclusive evidence of your self-employment income in that year or the wages paid to you by that employer and the periods in which they were received unless one of the exceptions in § 404.822 applies;
(2) If SSA records show no entry of wages for an employer for a period in that year, our records are conclusive evidence that no wages were paid to you by that employer in that period unless one of the exceptions in § 404.822 applies; and
(3) If SSA records show no entry of self-employment income for that year, our records are conclusive evidence that you did not receive self-employment income in that year unless the exception in § 404.822(b)(2) (i) or (iii) applies.

# Obtaining Earnings Information
§ 404.810
How to obtain a statement of earnings and a benefit estimate statement.
(a)
Right to a statement of earnings and a benefit estimate.
You or your legal representative or, after your death, your survivor or the legal representative of your estate may obtain a statement of your earnings as shown on our records at the time of the request. If you have a social security number and have wages or net earnings from self-employment, you may also request and receive an earnings statement that will include an estimate of the monthly old-age, disability, dependents', and survivors' insurance benefits potentially payable on your earnings record, together with a description of the benefits payable under the medicare program. You may request these statements by writing, calling, or visiting a social security office.
(b)
Contents of request.
When you request a statement of your earnings, we will ask you to complete a prescribed form, giving us your name, social security number, date of birth, and sex. You, your authorized representative or, after your death, your survivor or the legal representative of your estate will be asked to sign and date the form. If
you are requesting an estimate of the monthly benefits potentially payable on your earnings record, we will also ask you to give us the amount of your earnings for the last year, an estimate of your earnings for the current year, an estimate of your earnings for future years before your planned retirement, and the age at which you plan to retire, so that we can give you a more realistic estimate of the benefits that may be payable on your record. A request for a statement of earnings and a benefit estimate not made on the prescribed form will be accepted if the request is in writing, is signed and dated by the appropriate individual noted above, and contains all the information that is requested on the prescribed form.
[57 FR 54918, Nov. 23, 1992]
§ 404.811
The statement of earnings and benefit estimates you requested.
(a)
General.
After receiving a request for a statement of earnings and the information we need to comply with the request, we will provide you or your authorized representative a statement of the earnings we have credited to your record at the time of your request. With the statement of earnings, we will include estimates of the benefits potentially payable on your record, unless you do not have the required credits (quarters of coverage) for any kind of benefit(s). (However, see paragraph (b)(3) of this section regarding the possibility of our estimating up to eight additional credits on your record.) If we do not provide a statement of earnings and an estimate of all the benefits potentially payable, or any other information you requested, we will explain why.
(b)
Contents of statement of earnings and benefit estimates.
The statement of your earnings and benefit estimates will contain the following information:
(1) Your social security taxed earnings as shown by our records as of the date of your request;
(2) An estimate of the social security and medicare hospital insurance taxes paid on your earnings (although we do not maintain such tax information);
(3) The number of credits,
i.e.
, quarters of coverage, not exceeding 40, you have for both social security and medicare hospital insurance purposes, and the number you need to be eligible for social security and also for medicare hospital insurance coverage. If you do not already have the required credits (quarters of coverage) to be eligible to receive social security benefits and medicare hospital insurance coverage, we may include up to eight additional estimated credits (four per year) based on the earnings you told us you had for last year and this year that we have not yet entered on your record;
(4) A statement as to whether you meet the credits (quarters of coverage) requirements, as described in subpart B of this part, for each type of social security benefit when we prepare the benefit estimates, and also whether you are eligible for medicare hospital insurance coverage;
(5) Estimates of the monthly retirement (old-age), disability, dependents' and survivors' insurance benefits potentially payable on your record if you meet the credits (quarters of coverage) requirements. The benefit estimates we send you will be based partly on your stated earnings for last year (if not yet on your record), your estimate of your earnings for the current year and for future years before you plan to retire, and on the age at which you plan to retire. The estimate will include the retirement (old-age) insurance benefits you could receive at age 62 (or your current age if you are already over age 62), at full retirement age (currently age 65 to 67, depending on your year of birth) or at your current age if you are already over full retirement age, and at age 70;
(6) A description of the coverage under the medicare program;
(7) A reminder of your right to request a correction of your earnings record; and
(8) A remark that an annually updated statement is available on request.
[61 FR 18076, Apr. 24, 1996]
§ 404.812
Statement of earnings and benefit estimates sent without request.
(a)
Who will be sent a statement.
Unless one of the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section applies to you, we
will send you, without request, a statement of earnings and benefit estimates if:
(1) You have a social security account number;
(2) You have wages or net earnings from self-employment on your social security record;
(3) You have attained age 25 or older, as explained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and
(4) We can determine your current mailing address.
(b)
Who will not be sent a statement.
We will not send you an unrequested statement if any of the following conditions apply:
(1) You do not meet one or more of the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Our records contain a notation of your death;
(3) You are entitled to benefits under title II of the Act;
(4) We have already sent you a statement, based on your request, in the fiscal year we selected you to receive an unrequested statement;
(5) We cannot obtain your address (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section); or
(6) We are correcting your social security earnings record when we select you to receive a statement of earnings and benefit estimates.
(c)
The selection and mailing process.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, we will use the following process for sending statements without requests:
(1)
Selection.
We will use our records of assigned social security account numbers to identify individuals to whom we will send statements.
(2)
Addresses.
If you are living in one of the 50 States or the District of Columbia, our current procedure is to get your address from individual taxpayer files of the Internal Revenue Service, as authorized by section 6103(m)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(7)). If you live in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or Guam, we will get your address from the taxpayer records of the place in which you live.
(3)
Age.
If you have attained age 60 on or before September 30, 1995, we will send you a statement by that date. If you attain age 60 on or after October 1, 1995 but no later than September 30, 1999, we will send you a statement in the fiscal year in which you attain age 60, or in an earlier year as resources allow. Also, we will inform you that an annually updated statement is available on request. Beginning October 1, 1999, we will send you a statement each year in which you are age 25 or older.
(4)
Ineligible.
If we do not send you a statement because one or more conditions in paragraph (b) of this section apply when you are selected, we will send a statement in the first appropriate fiscal year thereafter in which you do qualify.
(5)
Undeliverable.
If the statement we send you is returned by the Post Office as undeliverable, we will not remail it.
(d)
Contents of statement of earnings and benefit estimates.
To prepare your statement and estimate your benefits, we will use the earnings in our records. If there are earnings recorded for you in either of the two years before the year in which you are selected to get a statement, we will use the later of these earnings as your earnings for the current year and future years when we estimate your benefits. In addition, if you do not already have the required credits (quarters of coverage) to be eligible to receive benefits, we will use that last recorded earnings amount to estimate up to eight additional credits (four per year) for last year and the current year if they are not yet entered on your record. If there are no earnings entered on your record in either of the two years preceding the year of selection, we will not estimate current and future earnings or additional credits for you. Your earnings and benefit estimates statement will contain the following information:
(1) Your social security taxed earnings as shown by our records as of the date we select you to receive a statement;
(2) An estimate of the social security and medicare hospital insurance taxes paid on your earnings (although we do not maintain such tax information);
(3) The number of credits,
i.e.
, quarters of coverage, not exceeding 40 (as described in paragraph (d) of this section), that you have for both social security and medicare hospital insurance purposes, and the number you need to be eligible for social security benefits
and also for medicare hospital insurance coverage;
(4) A statement as to whether you meet the credit (quarters of coverage) requirements, as described in subpart B of this part, for each type of social security benefit when we prepare the benefit estimates, and also whether you are eligible for medicare hospital insurance coverage;
(5) Estimates of the monthly retirement (old-age), disability, dependents' and survivors' insurance benefits potentially payable on your record if you meet the credits (quarters of coverage) requirements. If you are age 50 or older, the estimates will include the retirement (old-age) insurance benefits you could receive at age 62 (or your current age if you are already over age 62), at full retirement age (currently age 65 to 67, depending on your year of birth) or at your current age if you are already over full retirement age, and at age 70. If you are under age 50, instead of estimates, we may provide a general description of the benefits (including auxiliary benefits) that are available upon retirement;
(6) A description of the coverage provided under the medicare program;
(7) A reminder of your right to request a correction of your earnings record; and
(8) A remark that an annually updated statement is available on request.
[61 FR 18077, Apr. 24, 1996]

# Correcting the Earnings Record
§ 404.820
Filing a request for correction of the record of your earnings.
(a)
When to file a request for correction.
You or your survivor must file a request for correction of the record of your earnings within the time limit for the year being questioned unless one of the exceptions in § 404.822 applies.
(b)
Contents of a request.
(1) A request for correction of an earnings record must be in writing and must state that the record is incorrect.
(2) A request must be signed by you or your survivor or by a person who may sign an application for benefits for you or for your survivor as described in § 404.612.
(3) A request should state the period being questioned.
(4) A request should describe, or have attached to it, any available evidence which shows that the record of earnings is incorrect.
(c)
Where to file a request.
A request may be filed with an SSA employee at one of our offices or with an SSA employee who is authorized to receive a request at a place other than one of our offices. A request may be filed with the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines or with any U.S. Foreign Service Office.
(d)
When a request is considered filed.
A request is considered filed on the day it is received by any of our offices, by an authorized SSA employee, by the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines, or by any U.S. Foreign Service Office. If using the date we receive a mailed request disadvantages the requester, we will use the date the request was mailed to us as shown by a U.S. postmark. If the postmark is unreadable or there is no postmark, we will consider other evidence of the date when the request was mailed.
(e)
Withdrawal of a request for correction.
A request for correction of SSA records of your earnings may be withdrawn as described in § 404.640.
(f)
Cancellation of a request to withdraw.
A request to withdraw a request for correction of SSA records of your earnings may be cancelled as described in § 404.641.
(g)
Determinations on requests.
When we receive a request described in this section, we will make a determination to grant or deny the request. If we deny the request, this determination may be appealed under the provisions of subpart J of this part.
§ 404.821
Correction of the record of your earnings before the time limit ends.
Before the time limit ends for any year, we will correct the record of your earnings for that year for any reason if satisfactory evidence shows SSA records are incorrect. We may correct the record as the result of a request filed under § 404.820 or we may correct it on our own.
§ 404.822
Correction of the record of your earnings after the time limit ends.
(a)
Generally.
After the time limit for any year ends, we may correct the record of your earnings for that year if satisfactory evidence shows SSA records are incorrect and any of the circumstances in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section applies.
(b)
Correcting SSA records to agree with tax returns.
We will correct SSA records to agree with a tax return of wages or self-employment income to the extent that the amount of earnings shown in the return is correct.
(1)
Tax returns of wages.
We may correct the earnings record to agree with a tax return of wages or with a wage report of a State.
(2)
Tax returns of self-employment income
—(i)
Return filed before the time limit ended.
We may correct the earnings record to agree with a tax return of self-employment income filed before the end of the time limit.
(ii)
Return filed after time limit ended.
We may remove or reduce, but not increase, the amount of self-employment income entered on the earnings record to agree with a tax return of self-employment income filed after the time limit ends.
(iii)
Self-employment income entered in place of erroneously entered wages.
We may enter self-employment income for any year up to an amount erroneously entered in SSA records as wages but which was later removed from the records. However, we may enter self-employment income under this paragraph only if—
(A) An amended tax return is filed before the time limit ends for the year in which the erroneously entered wages were removed; or
(B) Net earnings from self-employment, which are not already entered in the record of your earnings, were included in a tax return filed before the end of the time limit for the year in which the erroneously entered wages were removed.
(c)
Written request for correction or application for benefits filed before the time limit ends
—(1)
Written request for correction.
We may correct an earnings record if you or your survivor files a request for correction before the time limit for that year ends. The request must state that the earnings record for that year is incorrect. However, we may not correct the record under this paragraph after our determination on the request becomes final.
(2)
Application for benefits.
We may correct an earnings record if an application is filed for monthly benefits or for a lump-sum death payment before the time limit for that year ends. However, we may not correct the record under this paragraph after our determination on the application becomes final.
(3) See subpart J for the rules on the finality of determinations.
(d)
Transfer of wages to or from the Railroad Retirement Board
—(1)
Wages erroneously reported.
We may transfer to or from the records of the Railroad Retirement Board earnings which were erroneously reported to us or to the Railroad Retirement Board.
(2)
Earnings certified by Railroad Retirement Board.
We may enter earnings for railroad work under subpart O if the earnings are certified by the Railroad Retirement Board.
(e)
Other circumstances permitting correction
—(1)
Investigation started before time limit ends.
We may correct an earnings record if the correction is made as the result of an investigation started before, but completed after the time limit ends. An investigation is started when we take an affirmative step leading to a decision on a question about the earnings record, for example, an investigation is started when one SSA unit asks another unit to obtain additional information or evidence. We will remove or reduce earnings on the record under this paragraph only if we carried out the investigation as promptly as circumstances permitted.
(2)
Error apparent on face of records.
We may correct an earnings record to correct errors, such as mechanical or clerical errors, which can be identified and corrected without going beyond any of the pertinent SSA records.
(3)
Fraud.
We may change any entry which was entered on the earnings record as the result of fraud.
(4)
Entries for wrong person or period.
We may correct errors in SSA records resulting from earnings being entered for the wrong person or period.
(5)
Less than correct wages on SSA records.
We may enter wages paid to you by an employer for a period if no part of those wages or less than the correct amount of those wages is entered on SSA records.
(6)
Wage payments under a statute.
We may enter and allocate wages awarded to you for a period as the result of a determination or agreement approved by a court or administrative agency that enforces Federal or State statutes protecting your right to employment or wages.
[44 FR 38454, July 2, 1979, as amended at 57 FR 21600, May 21, 1992]
§ 404.823
Correction of the record of your earnings for work in the employ of the United States.
We may correct the record of your earnings to remove, reduce, or enter earnings for work in the employ of the United States only if—
(a) Correction is permitted under § 404.821 or § 404.822; and
(b) Any necessary determinations concerning the amount of remuneration paid for your work and the periods for which such remuneration was paid have been made as shown by—
(1) A tax return filed under section 3122 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 3122); or
(2) A certification by the head of the Federal agency or instrumentality of which you have been an employee or his or her agent. A Federal instrumentality for these purposes includes a nonappropriated fund activity of the armed forces or Coast Guard.
[44 FR 38454, July 2, 1979, as amended at 55 FR 24891, June 19, 1990]

# Notice of Removal or Reduction of an Entry of Earnings
§ 404.830
Notice of removal or reduction of your wages.
If we remove or reduce an amount of wages entered on the record of your earnings, we will notify you of this correction if we previously notified you of the amount of your wages for the period involved. We will notify your survivor if we previously notified you or your survivor of the amount of your earnings for the period involved.
§ 404.831
Notice of removal or reduction of your self-employment income.
If we remove or reduce an amount of self-employment income entered on the record of your earnings, we will notify you of this correction. We will notify your survivor if we previously notified you or your survivor of the amount of your earnings for the period involved.

# Subpart J—Determinations, Administrative Review Process, and Reopening of Determinations and Decisions

# Authority:
Secs. 201(j), 204(f), 205(a)-(b), (d)-(h), and (j), 221, 223(i), 225, and 702(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401(j), 404(f), 405(a)-(b), (d)-(h), and (j), 421, 423(i), 425, and 902(a)(5)); sec. 5, Pub. L. 97-455, 96 Stat. 2500 (42 U.S.C. 405 note); secs. 5, 6(c)-(e), and 15, Pub. L. 98-460, 98 Stat. 1802 (42 U.S.C. 421 note); sec. 202, Pub. L. 108-203, 118 Stat. 509 (42 U.S.C. 902 note).

# Introduction, Definitions, and Initial Determinations
§ 404.900
Introduction.
(a)
Explanation of the administrative review process.
This subpart explains the procedures we follow in determining your rights under title II of the Social Security Act. The regulations describe the process of administrative review and explain your right to judicial review after you have taken all the necessary administrative steps. These procedures apply also to persons claiming certain benefits under title XVIII of the Act (Medicare); see 42 CFR 405.904(a)(1). The administrative review process consists of several steps, which usually must be requested within certain time periods and in the following order:
(1)
Initial determination.
This is a determination we make about your entitlement or your continuing entitlement to benefits or about any other matter, as discussed in § 404.902, that gives you a right to further review.
(2)
Reconsideration.
If you are dissatisfied with an initial determination, you may ask us to reconsider it.
(3)
Hearing before an administrative law judge.
If you are dissatisfied with the reconsideration determination, you
may request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(4)
Appeals Council review.
If you are dissatisfied with the decision of the administrative law judge, you may request that the Appeals Council review the decision.
(5)
Federal court review.
When you have completed the steps of the administrative review process listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, we will have made our final decision. If you are dissatisfied with our final decision, you may request judicial review by filing an action in a Federal district court.
(6)
Expedited appeals process.
At some time after your initial determination has been reviewed, if you have no dispute with our findings of fact and our application and interpretation of the controlling laws, but you believe that a part of the law is unconstitutional, you may use the expedited appeals process. This process permits you to go directly to a Federal district court so that the constitutional issue may be resolved.
(b)
Nature of the administrative review process.
In making a determination or decision in your case, we conduct the administrative review process in an informal, non-adversarial manner. Subject to certain timeframes at the hearing level (see § 404.935) and the limitations on Appeals Council consideration of additional evidence (see § 404.970), we will consider at each step of the review process any information you present as well as all the information in our records. If you are dissatisfied with our decision in the review process, but do not take the next step within the stated time period, you will lose your right to further administrative review and your right to judicial review, unless you can show us that there was good cause for your failure to make a timely request for review.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 300, Jan. 3, 1986; 51 FR 8808, Mar. 14, 1986; 52 FR 4004, Feb. 9, 1987; 78 FR 57259, Sept. 18, 2013; 80 FR 14835, Mar. 20, 2015; 81 FR 90992, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 404.901
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Date you receive notice
means 5 days after the date on the notice, unless you show us that you did not receive it within the 5-day period.
Decision
means the decision made by an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council.
Determination
means the initial determination or the reconsidered determination.
Preponderance of the evidence
means such relevant evidence that as a whole shows that the existence of the fact to be proven is more likely than not.
Remand
means to return a case for further review.
Substantial evidence
means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
Vacate
means to set aside a previous action.
Waive
means to give up a right knowingly and voluntarily.
We, us,
or
our
refers to the Social Security Administration.
You
or
your
refers to any person claiming a right under the old age, disability, dependents' or survivors' benefits program.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 76943, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 404.902
Administrative actions that are initial determinations.
Initial determinations are the determinations we make that are subject to administrative and judicial review. We will base our initial determination on the preponderance of the evidence. We will state the important facts and give the reasons for our conclusions in the initial determination. In the old age, survivors' and disability insurance programs, initial determinations include, but are not limited to, determinations about—
(a) Your entitlement or your continuing entitlement to benefits;
(b) Your reentitlement to benefits;
(c) The amount of your benefit;
(d) A recomputation of your benefit;
(e) A reduction in your disability benefits because you also receive benefits under a workmen's compensation law;
(f) A deduction from your benefits on account of work;
(g) [Reserved]
(h) Termination of your benefits;
(i) Penalty deductions imposed because you failed to report certain events;
(j) Any overpayment or underpayment of your benefits;
(k) Whether an overpayment of benefits must be repaid to us;
(l) How an underpayment of benefits due a deceased person will be paid;
(m) The establishment or termination of a period of disability;
(n) A revision of your earnings record;
(o) Whether the payment of your benefits will be made, on your behalf, to a representative payee;
(p) Your drug addiction or alcoholism;
(q) Who will act as your payee if we determine that representative payment will be made;
(r) An offset of your benefits under § 404.408b because you previously received supplemental security income payments for the same period;
(s) Whether your completion of, or continuation for a specified period of time in, an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services will increase the likelihood that you will not have to return to the disability benefit rolls, and thus, whether your benefits may be continued even though you are not disabled;
(t) Nonpayment of your benefits under § 404.468 because of your confinement in a jail, prison, or other penal institution or correctional facility for conviction of a felony;
(u) Whether or not you have a disabling impairment(s) as defined in § 404.1511;
(v) Nonpayment of your benefits under § 404.469 because you have not furnished us satisfactory proof of your Social Security number, or, if a Social Security number has not been assigned to you, you have not filed a proper application for one;
(w) A claim for benefits under § 404.633 based on alleged misinformation; and
(x) Whether we were negligent in investigating or monitoring or failing to investigate or monitor your representative payee, which resulted in the misuse of benefits by your representative payee.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 4988, Feb. 3, 1982; 47 FR 31543, July 21, 1982; 49 FR 22272, May 29, 1984; 50 FR 20902, May 21, 1985; 56 FR 41790, Aug. 23, 1991; 59 FR 44925, Aug. 31, 1994; 60 FR 8147, Feb. 10, 1995; 68 FR 40123, July 7, 2003; 69 FR 60232, Oct. 7, 2004; 70 FR 36507, June 24, 2005; 73 FR 76943, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 404.903
Administrative actions that are not initial determinations.
Administrative actions that are not initial determinations may be reviewed by us, but they are not subject to the administrative review process provided by this subpart, and they are not subject to judicial review. These actions include, but are not limited to, an action—
(a) Suspending benefits pending an investigation and determination of any factual issue relating to a deduction on account of work;
(b) Suspending benefits pending an investigation to determine if your disability has ceased;
(c) Denying a request to be made a representative payee;
(d) Certifying two or more family members for joint payment of benefits;
(e) Withholding less than the full amount of your monthly benefit to recover an overpayment;
(f) Determining the fee that may be charged or received by a person who has represented you in connection with a proceeding before us;
(g) Refusing to recognize, disqualifying, or suspending a person from acting as your representative in a proceeding before us (see §§ 404.1705 and 404.1745);
(h) Compromising, suspending or terminating collection of an overpayment under the Federal Claims Collection Act;
(i) Extending or not extending the time to file a report of earnings;
(j) Denying your request to extend the time period for requesting review of a determination or a decision;
(k) Denying your request to use the expedited appeals process;
(l) Denying your request to reopen a determination or a decision;
(m) Withholding temporarily benefits based on a wage earner's estimate of
earnings to avoid creating an overpayment;
(n) Determining whether (and the amount of) travel expenses incurred are reimbursable in connection with proceedings before us;
(o) Denying your request to readjudicate your claim and apply an Acquiescence Ruling;
(p) Findings on whether we can collect an overpayment by using the Federal income tax refund offset procedure (see § 404.523);
(q) Determining whether an organization may collect a fee from you for expenses it incurred in serving as your representative payee (see § 404.2040a);
(r) Declining under § 404.633(f) to make a determination on a claim for benefits based on alleged misinformation because one or more of the conditions specified in § 404.633(f) are not met;
(s) The assignment of a monthly payment day (see § 404.1807);
(t) Determining whether we will refer information about your overpayment to a consumer reporting agency (see §§ 404.527 and 422.305 of this chapter);
(u) Determining whether we will refer your overpayment to the Department of the Treasury for collection by offset against Federal payments due you (see §§ 404.527 and 422.310 of this chapter);
(v) Determining whether we will order your employer to withhold from your disposable pay to collect an overpayment you received under title II of the Social Security Act (see part 422, subpart E, of this chapter);
(w) Determining whether provisional benefits are payable, the amount of the provisional benefits, and when provisional benefits terminate (see § 404.1592e);
(x) Determining whether to select your claim for the quick disability determination process under § 404.1619;
(y) The removal of your claim from the quick disability determination process under § 404.1619;
(z) Starting or discontinuing a continuing disability review;
(aa) Issuing a receipt in response to your report of a change in your work activity; and
(bb) Determining whether a non-attorney representative is eligible to receive direct fee payment as described in § 404.1717 of this part.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 8808, Mar. 14, 1986; 55 FR 1018, Jan. 11, 1990; 56 FR 52469, Oct. 21, 1991; 57 FR 23057, June 1, 1992; 59 FR 44925, Aug. 31, 1994; 62 FR 6120, Feb. 11, 1997; 62 FR 64278, Dec. 5, 1997; 68 FR 74183, Dec. 23, 2003; 70 FR 57142, Sept. 30, 2005; 71 FR 16443, Mar. 31, 2006; 71 FR 66853, 66866, Nov. 17, 2006; 72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007; 76 FR 45192, July 28, 2011; 76 FR 80245, Dec. 23, 2011; 80 FR 400, Jan. 6, 2015]
§ 404.904
Notice of the initial determination.
We will mail a written notice of our initial determination to you at your last known address. The written notice will explain in simple and clear language what we have determined and the reasons for and the effect of our determination. If our determination involves a determination of disability that is in whole or in part unfavorable to you, our written notice also will contain in understandable language a statement of the case setting forth the evidence on which our determination is based. The notice also will inform you of your right to reconsideration. We will not mail a notice if the beneficiary's entitlement to benefits has ended because of his or her death.
[72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007]
§ 404.905
Effect of an initial determination.
An initial determination is binding unless you request a reconsideration within the stated time period, or we revise the initial determination.
[51 FR 300, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.906
Testing modifications to the disability determination procedures.
(a)
Applicability and scope.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this part or part 422 of this chapter, we are establishing the procedures set out in this section to test modifications to our disability determination process. These modifications will enable us to test, either individually or in one or more combinations, the effect of: having disability claim managers assume primary responsibility for processing an application for disability benefits; providing persons who have applied for
benefits based on disability with the opportunity for an interview with a decisionmaker when the decisionmaker finds that the evidence in the file is insufficient to make a fully favorable determination or requires an initial determination denying the claim; having a single decisionmaker make the initial determination with assistance from medical consultants, where appropriate; and eliminating the reconsideration step in the administrative review process and having a claimant who is dissatisfied with the initial determination request a hearing before an administrative law judge. The model procedures we test will be designed to provide us with information regarding the effect of these procedural modifications and enable us to decide whether and to what degree the disability determination process would be improved if they were implemented on a national level.
(b)
Procedures for cases included in the tests.
Prior to commencing each test or group of tests in selected site(s), we will publish a notice in the
Federal Register.
The notice will describe which model or combinations of models we intend to test, where the specific test site(s) will be, and the duration of the test(s). The individuals who participate in the test(s) will be randomly assigned to a test group in each site where the tests are conducted. Paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section lists descriptions of each model.
(1) In the disability claim manager model, when you file an application for benefits based on disability, a disability claim manager will assume primary responsibility for the processing of your claim. The disability claim manager will be the focal point for your contacts with us during the claims intake process and until an initial determination on your claim is made. The disability claim manager will explain the disability programs to you, including the definition of disability and how we determine whether you meet all the requirements for benefits based on disability. The disability claim manager will explain what you will be asked to do throughout the claims process and how you can obtain information or assistance through him or her. The disability claim manager will also provide you with information regarding your right to representation, and he or she will provide you with appropriate referral sources for representation. The disability claim manager may be either a State agency employee or a Federal employee. In some instances, the disability claim manager may be assisted by other individuals.
(2) In the single decisionmaker model, the decisionmaker will make the disability determination and may also determine whether the other conditions for entitlement to benefits based on disability are met. The decisionmaker will make the disability determination after any appropriate consultation with a medical or psychological consultant. The medical or psychological consultant will not be required to sign the disability determination forms we use to have the State agency certify the determination of disability to us (see § 404.1615). However, before an initial determination is made in any case where there is evidence which indicates the existence of a mental impairment, the decisionmaker will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a qualified psychiatrist or psychologist has completed the medical portion of the case review and any applicable residual functional capacity assessment pursuant to our existing procedures (see § 404.1617). In some instances the decisionmaker may be the disability claim manager described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. When the decisionmaker is a State agency employee, a team of individuals that includes a Federal employee will determine whether the other conditions for entitlement to benefits are met.
(3) In the predecision interview model, if the decisionmaker(s) finds that the evidence in your file is insufficient to make a fully favorable determination or requires an initial determination denying your claim, a predecision notice will be mailed to you. The notice will tell you that, before the decisionmaker(s) makes an initial determination about whether you are disabled, you may request a predecision interview with the decisionmaker(s). The notice will also tell you that you may submit additional evidence. You must request a
predecision interview within 10 days after the date you receive the predecision notice. You must also submit any additional evidence within 10 days after you receive the predecision notice. If you request a predecision interview, the decisionmaker(s) will conduct the predecision interview in person, by videoconference, or by telephone as the decisionmaker(s) determines is appropriate under the circumstances. If you make a late request for a predecision interview, or submit additional evidence late, but show in writing that you had good cause under the standards in § 404.911 for missing the deadline, the decisionmaker(s) will extend the deadline. If you do not request the predecision interview, or if you do not appear for a scheduled predecision interview and do not submit additional evidence, or if you do not respond to our attempts to communicate with you, the decisionmaker(s) will make an initial determination based upon the evidence in your file. If you identify additional evidence during the predecision interview, which was previously not available, the decisionmaker(s) will advise you to submit the evidence. If you are unable to do so, the decisionmaker(s) may assist you in obtaining it. The decisionmaker(s) also will advise you of the specific timeframes you have for submitting any additional evidence identified during the predecision interview. If you have no treating source(s) (see § 404.1502), or your treating source(s) is unable or unwilling to provide the necessary evidence, or there is a conflict in the evidence that cannot be resolved through evidence from your treating source(s), the decisionmaker(s) may arrange a consultative examination or resolve conflicts according to existing procedures (see § 404.1519a). If you attend the predecision interview, or do not attend the predecision interview but you submit additional evidence, the decisionmaker(s) will make an initial determination based on the evidence in your file, including the additional evidence you submit or the evidence obtained as a result of the predecision notice or interview, or both.
(4) In the reconsideration elimination model, we will modify the disability determination process by eliminating the reconsideration step of the administrative review process. If you receive an initial determination on your claim for benefits based on disability, and you are dissatisfied with the determination, we will notify you that you may request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
[60 FR 20026, Apr. 24, 1995, as amended at 73 FR 2415, Jan. 15, 2008; 76 FR 24806, May 3, 2011; 82 FR 5863, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Reconsideration
§ 404.907
Reconsideration—general.
If you are dissatisfied with the initial determination, reconsideration is the first step in the administrative review process that we provide, except that we provide the opportunity for a hearing before an administrative law judge as the first step for those situations described in §§ 404.930 (a)(6) and (a)(7), where you appeal an initial determination denying your request for waiver of adjustment or recovery of an overpayment (see § 404.506). If you are dissatisfied with our reconsidered determination, you may request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
[61 FR 56132, Oct. 31, 1996]
§ 404.908
Parties to a reconsideration.
(a)
Who may request a reconsideration.
If you are dissatisfied with the initial determination, you may request that we reconsider it. In addition, a person who shows in writing that his or her rights may be adversely affected by the initial determination may request a reconsideration.
(b)
Who are parties to a reconsideration.
After a request for the reconsideration, you and any person who shows in writing that his or her rights are adversely affected by the initial determination will be parties to the reconsideration.
§ 404.909
How to request reconsideration.
(a) We shall reconsider an initial determination if you or any other party to the reconsideration files a written request—
(1) Within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the initial determination (or within the extended time period if we extend the time as provided in paragraph (b) of this section);
(2) At one of our offices, the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines, or an office of the Railroad Retirement Board if you have 10 or more years of service in the railroad industry.
(b)
Extension of time to request a reconsideration.
If you want a reconsideration of the initial determination but do not request one in time, you may ask us for more time to request a reconsideration. Your request for an extension of time must be in writing and must give the reasons why the request for reconsideration was not filed within the stated time period. If you show us that you had good cause for missing the deadline, we will extend the time period. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
§ 404.911
Good cause for missing the deadline to request review.
(a) In determining whether you have shown that you had good cause for missing a deadline to request review we consider—
(1) What circumstances kept you from making the request on time;
(2) Whether our action misled you;
(3) Whether you did not understand the requirements of the Act resulting from amendments to the Act, other legislation, or court decisions; and
(4) Whether you had any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which prevented you from filing a timely request or from understanding or knowing about the need to file a timely request for review.
(b) Examples of circumstances where good cause may exist include, but are not limited to, the following situations:
(1) You were seriously ill and were prevented from contacting us in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative, or other person.
(2) There was a death or serious illness in your immediate family.
(3) Important records were destroyed or damaged by fire or other accidental cause.
(4) You were trying very hard to find necessary information to support your claim but did not find the information within the stated time periods.
(5) You asked us for additional information explaining our action within the time limit, and within 60 days of receiving the explanation you requested reconsideration or a hearing, or within 30 days of receiving the explanation you requested Appeal Council review or filed a civil suit.
(6) We gave you incorrect or incomplete information about when and how to request administrative review or to file a civil suit.
(7) You did not receive notice of the determination or decision.
(8) You sent the request to another Government agency in good faith within the time limit and the request did not reach us until after the time period had expired.
(9) Unusual or unavoidable circumstances exist, including the circumstances described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, which show that you could not have known of the need to file timely, or which prevented you from filing timely.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 1634, Jan. 12, 1994]
§ 404.913
Reconsideration procedures.
(a)
Case review.
With the exception of the type of case described in paragraph (b) of this section, the reconsideration process consists of a case review. Under a case review procedure, we will give you and the other parties to the reconsideration an opportunity to present additional evidence to us. The official who reviews your case will then make a reconsidered determination based on all of this evidence.
(b)
Disability hearing.
If you have been receiving benefits based on disability and you request reconsideration of an initial or revised determination that, based on medical factors, you are not now disabled, we will give you and the other parties to the reconsideration an opportunity for a disability hearing. (See §§ 404.914 through 404.918.)
[51 FR 300, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.914
Disability hearing—general.
(a)
Availability.
We will provide you with an opportunity for a disability hearing if:
(1) You have been receiving benefits based on a medical impairment that renders you disabled;
(2) We have made an initial or revised determination based on medical factors that you are not now disabled because your impairment:
(i) Has ceased;
(ii) Did not exist; or
(iii) Is no longer disabling; and
(3) You make a timely request for reconsideration of the initial or revised determination.
(b)
Scope.
The disability hearing will address only the initial or revised determination, based on medical factors, that you are not now disabled. Any other issues which arise in connection with your request for reconsideration will be reviewed in accordance with the reconsideration procedures described in § 404.913(a).
(c)
Time and place
—(1)
General.
Either the State agency or the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate, as appropriate, will set the time and place of your disability hearing. We will send you a notice of the time and place of your disability hearing at least 20 days before the date of the hearing. You may be expected to travel to your disability hearing. (See §§ 404.999a-404.999d regarding reimbursement for travel expenses.)
(2)
Change of time or place.
If you are unable to travel or have some other reason why you cannot attend your disability hearing at the scheduled time or place, you should request at the earliest possible date that the time or place of your hearing be changed. We will change the time or place if there is good cause for doing so under the standards in § 404.936 (c) and (d).
(d)
Combined issues.
If a disability hearing is available to you under paragraph (a) of this section, and you file a new application for benefits while your request for reconsideration is still pending, we may combine the issues on both claims for the purpose of the disability hearing and issue a combined initial/reconsidered determination which is binding with respect to the common issues on both claims.
(e)
Definition.
For purposes of the provisions regarding disability hearings (§§ 404.914 through 404.918)
we, us
or
our
means the Social Security Administration or the State agency.
[51 FR 300, Jan. 3, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 8808, Mar. 14, 1986; 71 FR 10427, Mar. 1, 2006]
§ 404.915
Disability hearing—disability hearing officers.
(a)
General.
Your disability hearing will be conducted by a disability hearing officer who was not involved in making the determination you are appealing. The disability hearing officer will be an experienced disability examiner, regardless of whether he or she is appointed by a State agency or by the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
State agency hearing officers
—(1)
Appointment of State agency hearing officers.
If a State agency made the initial or revised determination that you are appealing, the disability hearing officer who conducts your disability hearing may be appointed by a State agency. If the disability hearing officer is appointed by a State agency, that individual will be employed by an adjudicatory unit of the State agency other than the adjudicatory unit which made the determination you are appealing.
(2)
State agency
defined. For purposes of this subpart,
State agency
means the adjudicatory component in the State which issues disability determinations.
(c)
Federal hearing officers.
The disability hearing officer who conducts your disability hearing will be appointed by the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate if:
(1) A component of our office other than a State agency made the determination you are appealing; or
(2) The State agency does not appoint a disability hearing officer to conduct your disability hearing under paragraph (b) of this section.
[51 FR 301, Jan. 3, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 10428, Mar. 1, 2006]
§ 404.916
Disability hearing—procedures.
(a)
General.
The disability hearing will enable you to introduce evidence and present your views to a disability hearing officer if you are dissatisfied with an initial or revised initial determination, based on medical factors, that you are not now disabled as described in § 404.914(a)(2).
(b)
Your procedural rights.
We will advise you that you have the following procedural rights in connection with the disability hearing process:
(1) You may request that we assist you in obtaining pertinent evidence for your disability hearing and, if necessary, that we issue a subpoena to compel the production of certain evidence or testimony. We will follow subpoena procedures similar to those described in § 404.950(d) for the administrative law judge hearing process;
(2) You may have a representative at the hearing appointed under subpart R of this part, or you may represent yourself;
(3) You or your representative may review the evidence in your case file, either on the date of your hearing or at an earlier time at your request, and present additional evidence;
(4) You may present witnesses and question any witnesses at the hearing;
(5) You may waive your right to appear at the hearing. If you do not appear at the hearing, the disability hearing officer will prepare and issue a written reconsidered determination based on the information in your case file.
(c)
Case preparation.
After you request reconsideration, your case file will be reviewed and prepared for the hearing. This review will be conducted in the component of our office (including a State agency) that made the initial or revised determination, by personnel who were not involved in making the initial or revised determination. Any new evidence you submit in connection with your request for reconsideration will be included in this review. If necessary, further development of the evidence, including arrangements for medical examinations, will be undertaken by this component. After the case file is prepared for the hearing, it will be forwarded by this component to the disability hearing officer for a hearing. If necessary, the case file may be sent back to this component at any time prior to the issuance of the reconsidered determination for additional development. Under paragraph (d) of this section, this component has the authority to issue a favorable reconsidered determination at any time in its development process.
(d)
Favorable reconsideration determination without a hearing.
If all the evidence in your case file supports a finding that you are now disabled, either the component that prepares your case for hearing under paragraph (c) or the disability hearing officer will issue a written favorable reconsideration determination, even if a disability hearing has not yet been held.
(e)
Opportunity to submit additional evidence after the hearing.
At your request, the disability hearing officer may allow up to 15 days after your disability hearing for receipt of evidence which is not available at the hearing, if:
(1) The disability hearing officer determines that the evidence has a direct bearing on the outcome of the hearing; and
(2) The evidence could not have been obtained before the hearing.
(f)
Opportunity to review and comment on evidence obtained or developed by us after the hearing.
If, for any reason, additional evidence is obtained or developed by us after your disability hearing, and all evidence taken together can be used to support a reconsidered determination that is unfavorable to you with regard to the medical factors of eligibility, we will notify you, in writing, and give you an opportunity to review and comment on the additional evidence. You will be given 10 days from the date you receive our notice to submit your comments (in writing or, in appropriate cases, by telephone), unless there is good cause for granting you additional time, as illustrated by the examples in § 404.911(b). Your comments will be considered before a reconsidered determination is issued. If you believe that it is necessary to have further opportunity for a hearing with respect to the additional evidence, a
supplementary hearing may be scheduled at your request. Otherwise, we will ask for your written comments on the additional evidence, or, in appropriate cases, for your telephone comments.
[51 FR 301, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.917
Disability hearing—disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination.
(a)
General.
The disability hearing officer who conducts your disability hearing will prepare and will also issue a written reconsidered determination, unless:
(1) The disability hearing officer sends the case back for additional development by the component that prepared the case for the hearing, and that component issues a favorable determination, as permitted by § 404.916(c);
(2) It is determined that you are engaging in substantial gainful activity and that you are therefore not disabled; or
(3) The reconsidered determination prepared by the disability hearing officer is reviewed under § 404.918.
(b)
Content.
The disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination will give the findings of fact and the reasons for the reconsidered determination. The disability hearing officer must base the reconsidered determination on the preponderance of the evidence offered at the disability hearing or otherwise included in your case file.
(c)
Notice.
We will mail you and the other parties a notice of reconsidered determination in accordance with § 404.922.
(d)
Effect.
The disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination, or, if it is changed under § 404.918, the reconsidered determination that is issued by the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate, is binding in accordance with § 404.921, subject to the exceptions specified in that section.
[51 FR 302, Jan. 3, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 10428, Mar. 1, 2006; 73 FR 76943, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 404.918
Disability hearing—review of the disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination before it is issued.
(a)
General.
The Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate may select a sample of disability hearing officers' reconsidered determinations, before they are issued, and review any such case to determine its correctness on any grounds he or she deems appropriate. The Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate shall review any case within the sample if:
(1) There appears to be an abuse of discretion by the hearing officer;
(2) There is an error of law; or
(3) The action, findings or conclusions of the disability hearing officer are not supported by substantial evidence.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
If the review indicates that the reconsidered determination prepared by the disability hearing officer is correct, it will be dated and issued immediately upon completion of the review. If the reconsidered determination prepared by the disability hearing officer is found by the Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate to be deficient, it will be changed as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Methods of correcting deficiencies in the disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination.
If the reconsidered determination prepared by the disability hearing officer is found by the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate to be deficient, the Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate will take appropriate action to assure that the deficiency is corrected before a reconsidered determination is issued. The action taken by the Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate will take one of two forms:
(1) The Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate may return the case file either to the component responsible for preparing the case for hearing or to the disability hearing officer, for appropriate further action; or
(2) The Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate may issue a written reconsidered determination which corrects the deficiency.
(c)
Further action on your case if it is sent back by the Associate Commissioner
for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate either to the component that prepared your case for hearing or to the disability hearing officer.
If the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate sends your case back either to the component responsible for preparing the case for hearing or to the disability hearing officer for appropriate further action, as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, any additional proceedings in your case will be governed by the disability hearing procedures described in § 404.916(f) or if your case is returned to the disability hearing officer and an unfavorable determination is indicated, a supplementary hearing may be scheduled for you before a reconsidered determination is reached in your case.
(d)
Opportunity to comment before the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate issues a reconsidered determination that is unfavorable to you.
If the Associate Commissioner for Disability Determinations or his or her delegate proposes to issue a reconsidered determination as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and that reconsidered determination is unfavorable to you, he or she will send you a copy of the proposed reconsidered determination with an explanation of the reasons for it, and will give you an opportunity to submit written comments before it is issued. At your request, you will also be given an opportunity to inspect the pertinent materials in your case file, including the reconsidered determination prepared by the disability hearing officer, before submitting your comments. You will be given 10 days from the date you receive the Associate Commissioner's notice of proposed action to submit your written comments, unless additional time is necessary to provide access to the pertinent file materials or there is good cause for providing more time, as illustrated by the examples in § 404.911(b). The Associate Commissioner or his or her delegate will consider your comments before taking any further action on your case.
[71 FR 10428, Mar. 1, 2006]
§ 404.919
Notice of another person's request for reconsideration.
If any other person files a request for reconsideration of the initial determination in your case, we shall notify you at your last known address before we reconsider the initial determination. We shall also give you an opportunity to present any evidence you think helpful to the reconsidered determination.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980. Redesignated at 51 FR 302, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.920
Reconsidered determination.
After you or another person requests a reconsideration, we will review the evidence we considered in making the initial determination and any other evidence we receive. We will make our determination based on the preponderance of the evidence.
[73 FR 76943, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 404.921
Effect of a reconsidered determination.
The reconsidered determination is binding unless—
(a) You or any other party to the reconsideration requests a hearing before an administrative law judge within the stated time period and a decision is made;
(b) The expedited appeals process is used; or
(c) The reconsidered determination is revised.
[51 FR 302, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.922
Notice of a reconsidered determination.
We shall mail a written notice of the reconsidered determination to the parties at their last known address. We shall state the specific reasons for the determination and tell you and any other parties of the right to a hearing. If it is appropriate, we will also tell you and any other parties how to use the expedited appeals process.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980. Redesignated at 51 FR 302, Jan. 3, 1986]

# Expedited Appeals Process
§ 404.923
Expedited appeals process—general.
By using the expedited appeals process you may go directly to a Federal district court without first completing the administrative review process that is generally required before the court will hear your case.
§ 404.924
When the expedited appeals process may be used.
You may use the expedited appeals process if all of the following requirements are met:
(a) We have made an initial and a reconsidered determination; an administrative law judge has made a hearing decision; or Appeals Council review has been requested, but a final decision has not been issued.
(b) You are a party to the reconsidered determination or the hearing decision.
(c) You have submitted a written request for the expedited appeals process.
(d) You have claimed, and we agree, that the only factor preventing a favorable determination or decision is a provision in the law that you believe is unconstitutional.
(e) If you are not the only party, all parties to the determination or decision agree to request the expedited appeals process.
§ 404.925
How to request expedited appeals process.
(a)
Time of filing request.
You may request the expedited appeals process—
(1) Within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the reconsidered determination (or within the extended time period if we extend the time as provided in paragraph (c) of this section);
(2) At any time after you have filed a timely request for a hearing but before you receive notice of the administrative law judge's decision;
(3) Within 60 days after the date you receive a notice of the administrative law judge's decision or dismissal (or within the extended time period if we extend the time as provided in paragraph (c) of this section); or
(4) At any time after you have filed a timely request for Appeals Council review, but before you receive notice of the Appeals Council's action.
(b)
Place of filing request.
You may file a written request for the expedited appeals process at one of our offices, the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines, or an office of the Railroad Retirement Board if you have 10 or more years of service in the railroad industry.
(c)
Extension of time to request expedited appeals process.
If you want to use the expedited appeals process but do not request it within the stated time period, you may ask for more time to submit your request. Your request for an extension of time must be in writing and must give the reasons why the request for the expedited appeals process was not filed within the stated time period. If you show that you had good cause for missing the deadline, the time period will be extended. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
§ 404.926
Agreement in expedited appeals process.
If you meet all the requirements necessary for the use of the expedited appeals process, our authorized representative shall prepare an agreement. The agreement must be signed by you, by every other party to the determination or decision and by our authorized representative. The agreement must provide that—
(a) The facts in your claim are not in dispute;
(b) The sole issue in dispute is whether a provision of the Act that applies to your case is unconstitutional;
(c) Except for your belief that a provision of the Act is unconstitutional, you agree with our interpretation of the law;
(d) If the provision of the Act that you believe is unconstitutional were not applied to your case, your claim would be allowed; and
(e) Our determination or the decision is final for the purpose of seeking judicial review.
§ 404.927
Effect of expedited appeals process agreement.
After an expedited appeals process agreement is signed, you will not need to complete the remaining steps of the
administrative review process. Instead, you may file an action in a Federal district court within 60 days after the date you receive notice (a signed copy of the agreement will be mailed to you and will constitute notice) that the agreement has been signed by our authorized representative.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 46369, Nov. 26, 1984]
§ 404.928
Expedited appeals process request that does not result in agreement.
If you do not meet all of the requirements necessary to use the expedited appeals process, we shall tell you that your request to use this process is denied and that your request will be considered as a request for a hearing or Appeals Council review, whichever is appropriate.

# Hearing Before an Administrative Law Judge
§ 404.929
Hearing before an administrative law judge—general.
If you are dissatisfied with one of the determinations or decisions listed in § 404.930, you may request a hearing. Subject to § 404.956, the Deputy Commissioner for Hearings Operations, or their delegate, will appoint an administrative law judge to conduct the hearing. If circumstances warrant, the Deputy Commissioner for Hearings Operations, or their delegate, may assign your case to another administrative law judge. We will schedule you to appear by audio, agency video, online video, or in person as set forth in § 404.936. Audio means telephone or similar audio-based technology in a private location you choose. Agency video means video, with audio functionality, using our equipment in one of our offices. Online video means video, with audio functionality, using a personal electronic device in a private location you choose. When we determine your manner of appearance, we consider the factors described in § 404.936(c)(1)(i) through (ii). You may submit new evidence (subject to the provisions of § 404.935), examine the evidence used in making the determination or decision under review, and present and question witnesses. The administrative law judge who conducts the hearing may ask you questions. The administrative law judge will issue a decision based on the preponderance of the evidence in the hearing record. If you waive your right to appear at the hearing, the administrative law judge will make a decision based on the preponderance of the evidence that is in the file and, subject to the provisions of § 404.935, any new evidence that may have been submitted for consideration.
[89 FR 68360, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.930
Availability of a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a) You or another party may request a hearing before an administrative law judge if we have made—
(1) A reconsidered determination;
(2) A revised determination of an initial determination, unless the revised determination concerns the issue of whether, based on medical factors, you are disabled;
(3) A reconsideration of a revised initial determination concerning the issue of whether, based on medical factors, you are disabled;
(4) A revised reconsidered determination;
(5) A revised decision based on evidence not included in the record on which the prior decision was based;
(6) An initial determination denying waiver of adjustment or recovery of an overpayment based on a personal conference (see § 404.506); or
(7) An initial determination denying waiver of adjustment or recovery of an overpayment based on a review of the written evidence of record (see § 404.506), and the determination was made concurrent with, or subsequent to, our reconsideration determination regarding the underlying overpayment but before an administrative law judge holds a hearing.
(b) We will hold a hearing only if you or another party to the hearing file a written request for a hearing.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 61 FR 56132, Oct. 31, 1996; 73 FR 2415, Jan. 15, 2008; 76 FR 24806, May 3, 2011]
§ 404.932
Parties to a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
Who may request a hearing.
You may request a hearing if a hearing is available under § 404.930. In addition, a person who shows in writing that his or her rights may be adversely affected by the decision may request a hearing.
(b)
Who are parties to a hearing.
After a request for a hearing is made, you, the other parties to the initial, reconsidered, or revised determination, and any other person who shows in writing that his or her rights may be adversely affected by the hearing, are parties to the hearing. In addition, any other person may be made a party to the hearing if his or her rights may be adversely affected by the decision, and we notify the person to appear at the hearing or to present evidence supporting his or her interest.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 75 FR 39160, July 8, 2010]
§ 404.933
How to request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
Written request.
You may request a hearing by filing a written request. You should include in your request—
(1) The name and social security number of the wage earner;
(2) The reasons you disagree with the previous determination or decision;
(3) A statement of additional evidence to be submitted and the date you will submit it; and
(4) The name and address of any designated representative.
(b)
When and where to file.
The request must be filed—
(1) Within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the previous determination or decision (or within the extended time period if we extend the time as provided in paragraph (c) of this section);
(2) At one of our offices, the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines, or an office of the Railroad Retirement Board for persons having 10 or more years of service in the railroad industry.
(c)
Extension of time to request a hearing.
If you have a right to a hearing but do not request one in time, you may ask for more time to make your request. The request for an extension of time must be in writing and it must give the reasons why the request for a hearing was not filed within the stated time period. You may file your request for an extension of time at one of our offices. If you show that you had good cause for missing the deadline, the time period will be extended. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.935
Submitting written evidence to an administrative law judge.
(a) When you submit your request for hearing, you should also submit information or evidence as required by § 404.1512 or any summary of the evidence to the administrative law judge. Each party must make every effort to ensure that the administrative law judge receives all of the evidence and must inform us about or submit any written evidence, as required in § 404.1512, no later than 5 business days before the date of the scheduled hearing. If you do not comply with this requirement, the administrative law judge may decline to consider or obtain the evidence, unless the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section apply.
(b) If you have evidence required under § 404.1512 but you have missed the deadline described in paragraph (a) of this section, the administrative law judge will accept the evidence if he or she has not yet issued a decision and you did not inform us about or submit the evidence before the deadline because:
(1) Our action misled you;
(2) You had a physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitation(s) that prevented you from informing us about or submitting the evidence earlier; or
(3) Some other unusual, unexpected, or unavoidable circumstance beyond your control prevented you from informing us about or submitting the evidence earlier. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) You were seriously ill, and your illness prevented you from contacting us in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative, or other person;
(ii) There was a death or serious illness in your immediate family;
(iii) Important records were destroyed or damaged by fire or other accidental cause; or
(iv) You actively and diligently sought evidence from a source and the evidence was not received or was received less than 5 business days prior to the hearing.
[81 FR 90993, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 404.936
Time, place, and manner of appearance for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
General.
We set the time and manner(s) of appearance for any hearing. We will set the place of a hearing when we schedule you and any other parties to the hearing to appear in person or by agency video. We may change the time, manner(s) of appearance, or place, if it is necessary. After sending you reasonable notice of the proposed action, the administrative law judge may adjourn or postpone the hearing or reopen it to receive additional evidence any time before the administrative law judge notifies you of a hearing decision.
(b)
Place of hearing.
If we set the place of the hearing, it can be in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands. The “place” of the hearing is the hearing office or other site(s) at which you and any other parties to the hearing are located when you make your appearance(s) before the administrative law judge by agency video or in person. A party to a hearing may only appear from the geographic areas, noted in this subsection, in which we hold hearings.
(c)
Determining manner of appearance to schedule.
We will schedule you or any other party to the hearing to appear by audio, agency video, online video, or in person. We may schedule you to appear by online video only if you agree to appear in that manner.
(1) When we determine your manner of appearance at the hearing, we consider the following factors:
(i) Which manner of appearance would be the most efficient for conducting the hearing; and
(ii) Any facts in your particular case that provide a good reason to schedule your appearance by audio, agency video, online video, or in person.
(2) We will generally direct any person we call as a witness, other than you or any other party to the hearing, to appear by audio, by agency video, or by online video. Witnesses include medical experts and vocational experts. Witnesses you call will appear at the hearing pursuant to § 404.950(e). If they are unable to appear with you in the same manner as you, we will generally direct them to appear by agency video or by audio. We will consider directing witnesses to appear in person only when:
(i) A witness is unable to appear by other available manners of appearance;
(ii) We determine that an alternate manner of appearance would be less efficient than conducting the appearance in person; or
(iii) We find that there are facts in your particular case that provide a good reason to schedule this individual's appearance in person.
(3) We follow the procedures set forth in § 404.937 to ensure the safety of the public and our employees in our hearing process.
(d)
Objecting to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both.
Prior to scheduling your hearing, we will notify you that we may schedule you to appear by audio or by agency video, or, if you agree, by online video. If you object to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both, you must notify us in writing within 30 days after the date you receive the notice. If you only object to appearing by audio, we may schedule you to appear in person, by agency video, or, if you agree, by online video. Similarly, if you only object to appearing by agency video, we may schedule you to appear in person, by audio, or, if you agree, by online video. If you object to appearing by both audio and agency video, and your residence does not change while your request for hearing is pending, we will schedule you to appear before the administrative law judge in person or, if you agree, by online video.
(1) If you notify us that you object to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both, more than 30 days after the date you receive our notice, we will extend the time period if you show you had
good cause for missing the deadline. To determine whether good cause exists for extending the deadline, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
(2) Notwithstanding any objections you may have to appearing by audio and subject to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, we will schedule you or any other party to the hearing to appear by audio when we cannot schedule you to appear by agency video or by online video and extraordinary circumstances prevent you from appearing in person. For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).
(3) Notwithstanding any objections you may have to appearing by audio, if you are incarcerated and an appearance by agency video and online video is not available, we will schedule you to appear by audio, unless we find that there are facts in your particular case that provide a good reason to schedule you to appear in person, if allowed by the place of confinement, or by agency video, online video, or in person upon your release. For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).
(4) Notwithstanding any objections you may have to appearing by audio, by agency video, or both, if you change your residence while your request for hearing is pending, we will determine how you will appear, including by audio or by agency video, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. For us to consider your change of residence when we schedule your hearing, you must submit evidence verifying your new residence. For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).
(5) Notwithstanding any objection you may have to appearing by audio, we will schedule you or any other party to the hearing to appear by audio in the circumstances provided in § 404.937(b)(2)(ii) and (c). For audio appearances under this subsection, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).
(e)
Time period to agree to an appearance by online video.
Prior to scheduling your hearing, we will notify you that we may schedule you to appear by online video if you agree to appear in that manner. To agree to appear by online video, you must notify us in writing within 30 days after the date you receive the notice. If you notify us that you agree to appearing by online video more than 30 days after the date you receive our notice, we will extend the time period if you show you had good cause for missing the deadline. To determine whether good cause exists for extending the deadline, we use the standards explained in § 404.911. You may withdraw your agreement any time before the start of your hearing.
(f)
Objecting to the time or place of the hearing.
(1) If you wish to object to the time or place of the hearing, you must:
(i) Notify us in writing at the earliest possible opportunity, but not later than 5 days before the date set for the hearing or 30 days after receiving notice of the hearing, whichever is earlier; and
(ii) State the reason(s) for your objection and state the time or place you want the hearing to be held. If the administrative law judge finds you have good cause, as determined under paragraph (e) of this section, we will change the time or place of the hearing.
(2) If you notify us that you object to the time or place of hearing less than 5 days before the date set for the hearing or, if earlier, more than 30 days after receiving notice of the hearing, we will consider this objection only if you show you had good cause for missing the deadline. To determine whether good cause exists for missing this deadline, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
(g)
Good cause for changing the time or place.
The administrative law judge will determine whether good cause exists for changing the time or place of your scheduled hearing. If the administrative law judge finds that good cause exists, we will set the time or place of the new hearing. A finding that good cause exists to reschedule the time or place of your hearing will generally not change the assignment of the administrative law judge or how you or another party will appear at the hearing, unless we determine a change will promote efficiency in our hearing process.
(1) The administrative law judge will find good cause to change the time or place of your hearing if he or she determines that, based on the evidence:
(i) A serious physical or mental condition or incapacitating injury makes it impossible for you or your representative to travel to the hearing, or a death in the family occurs; or
(ii) Severe weather conditions make it impossible for you or your representative to travel to the hearing.
(2) In determining whether good cause exists in circumstances other than those set out in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the administrative law judge will consider your reason(s) for requesting the change, the facts supporting it, and the impact of the proposed change on the efficient administration of the hearing process. Factors affecting the impact of the change include, but are not limited to, the effect on the processing of other scheduled hearings, delays that might occur in rescheduling your hearing, and whether we previously granted you any changes in the time or place of your hearing. Examples of such other circumstances that you might give for requesting a change in the time or place of the hearing include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) You unsuccessfully attempted to obtain a representative and need additional time to secure representation;
(ii) Your representative was appointed within 30 days of the scheduled hearing and needs additional time to prepare for the hearing;
(iii) Your representative has a prior commitment to be in court or at another administrative hearing on the date scheduled for the hearing;
(iv) A witness who will testify to facts material to your case would be unavailable to attend the scheduled hearing and the evidence cannot be otherwise obtained;
(v) Transportation is not readily available for you to travel to the hearing; or
(vi) You are unrepresented, and you are unable to respond to the notice of hearing because of any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have.
[84 FR 69305, Dec. 18, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 68360, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.937
Protecting the safety of the public and our employees in our hearing process.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision in this part or part 422 of this chapter, we are establishing the procedures set out in this section to ensure the safety of the public and our employees in our hearing process.
(b)(1) At the request of any hearing office employee, the Hearing Office Chief Administrative Law Judge will determine, after consultation with the presiding administrative law judge, whether a claimant or other individual poses a reasonable threat to the safety of our employees or other participants in the hearing. The Hearing Office Chief Administrative Law Judge will find that a claimant or other individual poses a threat to the safety of our employees or other participants in the hearing when he or she determines that the individual has made a threat and there is a reasonable likelihood that the claimant or other individual could act on the threat or when evidence suggests that a claimant or other individual poses a threat. In making a finding under this paragraph, the Hearing Office Chief Administrative Law Judge will consider all relevant evidence, including any information we have in the claimant's record and any information we have regarding the claimant's or other individual's past conduct.
(2) If the Hearing Office Chief Administrative Law Judge determines that the claimant or other individual poses a reasonable threat to the safety of our employees or other participants in the hearing, the Hearing Office Chief Administrative Law Judge will either:
(i) Require the presence of a security guard at the hearing; or
(ii) Require that the hearing be conducted by audio, notwithstanding any objection to appearing by audio, or, if the claimant agrees, by online video.
(c) If we have banned a claimant from any of our facilities, we will provide the claimant with the opportunity for a hearing that will be conducted by
audio, notwithstanding any objection to appearing by audio, or, if the claimant agrees, by online video.
(d) The actions of the Hearing Office Chief Administrative Law Judge taken under this section are final and not subject to further review.
(e) For audio appearances under this section, we will call you or any other party to the hearing using your or their telephone number(s).
[76 FR 13508, Mar. 14, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 10658, Feb. 23, 2012; 89 FR 68361, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.938
Notice of a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
Issuing the notice.
After we set the time and place of the hearing, we will mail notice of the hearing to you at your last known address, or give the notice to you by personal service, unless you have indicated in writing that you do not wish to receive this notice. We will mail or serve the notice at least 75 days before the date of the hearing.
(b)
Notice information.
The notice of hearing will tell you:
(1) The specific issues to be decided in your case;
(2) That you may designate a person to represent you during the proceedings;
(3) How to request that we change the time or place of your hearing;
(4) That your hearing may be dismissed if neither you nor the person you designate to act as your representative appears at your scheduled hearing without good reason under § 404.957;
(5) The time and manner(s) in which you, or any other party or witness, will appear. If we schedule you to appear in person or by agency video, as set forth in § 404.936, the notice of hearing will tell you the place of the hearing.
(6) That you must make every effort to inform us about or submit all written evidence that is not already in the record no later than 5 business days before the date of the scheduled hearing, unless you show that your circumstances meet the conditions described in § 404.935(b); and
(7) Any other information about the scheduling and conduct of your hearing.
(c)
Acknowledging the notice of hearing.
The notice of hearing will ask you to return a form to let us know that you received the notice. If you or your representative do not acknowledge receipt of the notice of hearing, we will attempt to contact you for an explanation. If you tell us that you did not receive the notice of hearing, an amended notice will be sent to you by certified mail.
(d)
Amended notice of hearing or notice of supplemental hearing.
If we need to send you an amended notice of hearing, we will mail or serve the notice at least 20 days before the date of the hearing. Similarly, if we schedule a supplemental hearing, after the initial hearing was continued by the assigned administrative law judge, we will mail or serve a notice of hearing at least 20 days before the date of the hearing.
[68 FR 5219, Feb. 3, 2003, as amended at 75 FR 39160, July 8, 2010; 78 FR 29627, May 21, 2013; 79 FR 35932, June 25, 2014; 81 FR 90993, Dec. 16, 2016; 84 FR 69306, Dec. 18, 2019; 89 FR 68362, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.939
Objections to the issues.
If you object to the issues to be decided at the hearing, you must notify the administrative law judge in writing at the earliest possible opportunity, but no later than 5 business days before the date set for the hearing, unless you show that your circumstances meet the conditions described in § 404.935(b). You must state the reason(s) for your objection(s). The administrative law judge will make a decision on your objection(s) either at the hearing or in writing before the hearing.
[81 FR 90993, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 404.940
Disqualification of the administrative law judge.
An administrative law judge shall not conduct a hearing if he or she is prejudiced or partial with respect to any party or has any interest in the matter pending for decision. If you object to the administrative law judge who will conduct the hearing, you must notify the administrative law judge at your earliest opportunity. The administrative law judge shall consider
your objections and shall decide whether to proceed with the hearing or withdraw. If he or she withdraws, the Associate Commissioner for Hearings and Appeals, or his or her delegate, will appoint another administrative law judge to conduct the hearing. If the administrative law judge does not withdraw, you may, after the hearing, present your objections to the Appeals Council as reasons why the hearing decision should be revised or a new hearing held before another administrative law judge.
§ 404.941
Prehearing case review.
(a)
General.
After a hearing is requested but before it is held, we may, for the purposes of a prehearing case review, forward the case to the component of our office (including a State agency) that issued the determination being reviewed. That component will decide whether it should revise the determination based on the preponderance of the evidence. A revised determination may be fully or partially favorable to you. A prehearing case review will not delay the scheduling of a hearing unless you agree to continue the review and delay the hearing. If the prehearing case review is not completed before the date of the hearing, the case will be sent to the administrative law judge unless a favorable revised determination is in process or you and the other parties to the hearing agree in writing to delay the hearing until the review is completed.
(b)
When a prehearing case review may be conducted.
We may conduct a prehearing case review if—
(1) Additional evidence is submitted;
(2) There is an indication that additional evidence is available;
(3) There is a change in the law or regulation; or
(4) There is an error in the file or some other indication that the prior determination may be revised.
(c)
Notice of a prehearing revised determination.
If we revise the determination in a prehearing case review, we will mail a written notice of the revised determination to all parties at their last known addresses. We will state the basis for the revised determination and advise all parties of the effect of the revised determination on the request for a hearing.
(d)
Effect of a fully favorable revised determination.
If the revised determination is fully favorable to you, we will tell you in the notice that an administrative law judge will dismiss the request for a hearing. We will also tell you that you or another party to the hearing may request that the administrative law judge vacate the dismissal and reinstate the request for a hearing if you or another party to the hearing disagrees with the revised determination for any reason. If you wish to make this request, you must do so in writing and send it to us within 60 days of the date you receive notice of the dismissal. If the request is timely, an administrative law judge will vacate the dismissal, reinstate the request for hearing, and offer you and all parties an opportunity for a hearing. The administrative law judge will extend the time limit if you show that you had good cause for missing the deadline. The administrative law judge will use the standards in § 404.911 to determine whether you had good cause.
(e)
Effect of a partially favorable revised determination.
If the revised determination is partially favorable to you, we will tell you in the notice what was not favorable. We will also tell you that an administrative law judge will hold the hearing you requested unless you and all other parties to the hearing agree in writing to dismiss the request for a hearing. An administrative law judge will dismiss the request for a hearing if we receive the written statement(s) agreeing to dismiss the request for a hearing before an administrative law judge mails a notice of his or her hearing decision.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 73 FR 76943, Dec. 18, 2008; 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010; 76 FR 65369, Oct. 21, 2011]
§ 404.942
Prehearing proceedings and decisions by attorney advisors.
(a)
General.
After a hearing is requested but before it is held, an attorney advisor may conduct prehearing proceedings as set out in paragraph (c) of this section. If after the completion of these proceedings we can make a decision that is fully favorable to you
and all other parties based on the preponderance of the evidence, an attorney advisor, instead of an administrative law judge, may issue the decision. The conduct of the prehearing proceedings by the attorney advisor will not delay the scheduling of a hearing. If the prehearing proceedings are not completed before the date of the hearing, the case will be sent to the administrative law judge unless a fully favorable decision is in process or you and all other parties to the hearing agree in writing to delay the hearing until the proceedings are completed.
(b)
When prehearing proceedings may be conducted by an attorney advisor.
An attorney advisor may conduct prehearing proceedings if you have filed a claim for benefits based on disability and—
(1) New and material evidence is submitted;
(2) There is an indication that additional evidence is available;
(3) There is a change in the law or regulations; or
(4) There is an error in the file or some other indication that a fully favorable decision may be issued.
(c)
Nature of the prehearing proceedings that may be conducted by an attorney advisor.
As part of the prehearing proceedings, the attorney advisor, in addition to reviewing the existing record, may—
(1) Request additional evidence that may be relevant to the claim, including medical evidence; and
(2) If necessary to clarify the record for the purpose of determining if a fully favorable decision is warranted, schedule a conference with the parties.
(d)
Notice of a decision by an attorney advisor.
If an attorney advisor issues a fully favorable decision under this section, we will mail a written notice of the decision to all parties at their last known addresses. We will state the basis for the decision and advise all parties that they may request that an administrative law judge reinstate the request for a hearing if they disagree with the decision for any reason. Any party who wants to make this request must do so in writing and send it to us within 60 days of the date he or she receives notice of the decision. The administrative law judge will extend the time limit if the requestor shows good cause for missing the deadline. The administrative law judge will use the standards in § 404.911 to determine whether there is good cause. If the request is timely, an administrative law judge will reinstate the request for a hearing and offer all parties an opportunity for a hearing.
(e)
Effect of an attorney advisor's decision.
An attorney advisor's decision under this section is binding unless—
(1) You or another party to the hearing submits a timely request that an administrative law judge reinstate the request for a hearing under paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) The Appeals Council reviews the decision on its own motion pursuant to § 404.969 as explained in paragraph (f)(3) of this section; or
(3) The decision of the attorney advisor is revised under the procedures explained in § 404.987.
(f)
Ancillary provisions.
For the purposes of the procedures authorized by this section, the regulations of part 404 shall apply to—
(1) Authorize an attorney advisor to exercise the functions performed by an administrative law judge under §§ 404.1513a, 404.1520a, 404.1526, and 404.1546.
(2) Define the term “decision” to include a decision made by an attorney advisor, as well as the decisions identified in § 404.901; and
(3) Make the decision of an attorney advisor under paragraph (d) of this section subject to review by the Appeals Council if the Appeals Council decides to review the decision of the attorney advisor anytime within 60 days after the date of the decision under § 404.969.
[60 FR 34131, June 30, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 35516, June 30, 1998; 64 FR 13678, Mar. 22, 1999; 64 FR 51893, Sept. 27, 1999; 72 FR 44765, Aug. 9, 2007; 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008; 74 FR 33328, July 13, 2009; 76 FR 18384, Apr. 4, 2011; 76 FR 65370, Oct. 21, 2011; 78 FR 45460, July 29, 2013; 80 FR 31991, June 5, 2015; 82 FR 5863, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 712, Jan. 8, 2018; 83 FR 40453, Aug. 15, 2018]
§ 404.943
Responsibilities of the adjudication officer.
(a)(1)
General.
Under the procedures set out in this section we will test
modifications to the procedures we follow when you file a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge in connection with a claim for benefits based on disability where the question of whether you are under a disability as defined in § 404.1505 is at issue. These modifications will enable us to test the effect of having an adjudication officer be your primary point of contact after you file a hearing request and before you have a hearing with an administrative law judge. The tests may be conducted alone, or in combination with the tests of the modifications to the disability determination procedures which we conduct under § 404.906. The adjudication officer, working with you and your representative, if any, will identify issues in dispute, develop evidence, conduct informal conferences, and conduct any other prehearing proceeding as may be necessary. The adjudication officer has the authority to make a decision fully favorable to you if the evidence so warrants. If the adjudication officer does not make a decision on your claim, your hearing request will be assigned to an administrative law judge for further proceedings.
(2)
Procedures for cases included in the tests.
Prior to commencing tests of the adjudication officer position in selected site(s), we will publish a notice in the
Federal Register.
The notice will describe where the specific test site(s) will be and the duration of the test(s). We will also state whether the tests of the adjudication officer position in each site will be conducted alone, or in combination with the tests of the modifications to the disability determination procedures which we conduct under § 404.906. The individuals who participate in the test(s) will be assigned randomly to a test group in each site where the tests are conducted.
(b)(1)
Prehearing procedures conducted by an Adjudication Officer.
When you file a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge in connection with a claim for benefits based on disability where the question of whether you are under a disability as defined in § 404.1505 is at issue, the adjudication officer will conduct an interview with you. The interview may take place in person, by telephone, or by videoconference, as the adjudication officer determines is appropriate under the circumstances of your case. If you file a request for an extension of time to request a hearing in accordance with § 404.933(c), the adjudication officer may develop information on, and may decide where the adjudication officer issues a fully favorable decision to you that you had good cause for missing the deadline for requesting a hearing. To determine whether you had good cause for missing the deadline, the adjudication officer will use the standards contained in § 404.911.
(2)
Representation.
The adjudication officer will provide you with information regarding the hearing process, including your right to representation. As may be appropriate, the adjudication officer will provide you with referral sources for representation, and give you copies of necessary documents to facilitate the appointment of a representative. If you have a representative, the adjudication officer will conduct an informal conference with the representative, in person or by telephone, to identify the issues in dispute and prepare proposed written agreements for the approval of the administrative law judge regarding those issues which are not in dispute and those issues proposed for the hearing. If you decide to proceed without representation, the adjudication officer may hold an informal conference with you. If you obtain representation after the adjudication officer has concluded that your case is ready for a hearing, the administrative law judge will return your case to the adjudication officer who will conduct an informal conference with you and your representative.
(3)
Evidence.
You, or your representative, may submit, or may be asked to obtain and submit, additional evidence to the adjudication officer. As the adjudication officer determines is appropriate under the circumstances of your case, the adjudication officer may refer the claim for further medical or vocational evidence.
(4)
Referral for a hearing.
The adjudication officer will refer the claim to the administrative law judge for further proceedings when the development
of evidence is complete, and you or your representative agree that a hearing is ready to be held. If you or your representative are unable to agree with the adjudication officer that the development of evidence is complete, the adjudication officer will note your disagreement and refer the claim to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. At this point, the administrative law judge conducts all further hearing proceedings, including scheduling and holding a hearing (§ 404.936), considering any additional evidence or arguments submitted (§§ 404.935, 404.944, 404.949, 404.950), and issuing a decision or dismissal of your request for a hearing, as may be appropriate (§§ 404.948, 404.953, 404.957). In addition, if the administrative law judge determines on or before the date of your hearing that the development of evidence is not complete, the administrative law judge may return the claim to the adjudication officer to complete the development of the evidence and for such other action as necessary.
(c)(1)
Fully favorable decisions issued by an adjudication officer.
If, after a hearing is requested but before it is held, the adjudication officer decides that the evidence in your case warrants a decision which is fully favorable to you, the adjudication officer may issue such a decision. For purposes of the tests authorized under this section, the adjudication officer's decision shall be considered to be a decision as defined in § 404.901. If the adjudication officer issues a decision under this section, it will be in writing and will give the findings of fact and the reasons for the decision. The adjudication officer will evaluate the issues relevant to determining whether or not you are disabled in accordance with the provisions of the Social Security Act, the rules in this part and part 422 of this chapter and applicable Social Security Rulings. For cases in which the adjudication officer issues a decision, he or she may determine your residual functional capacity in the same manner that an administrative law judge is authorized to do so in § 404.1546. The adjudication officer may also evaluate the severity of your mental impairments in the same manner that an administrative law judge is authorized to do so under § 404.1520a. The adjudication officer's decision will be based on the evidence which is included in the record and, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, will complete the actions that will be taken on your request for hearing. A copy of the decision will be mailed to all parties at their last known address. We will tell you in the notice that the administrative law judge will not hold a hearing unless a party to the hearing requests that the hearing proceed. A request to proceed with the hearing must be made in writing within 30 days after the date the notice of the decision of the adjudication officer is mailed.
(2)
Effect of a decision by an adjudication officer.
A decision by an adjudication officer which is fully favorable to you under this section, and notification thereof, completes the administrative action on your request for hearing and is binding on all parties to the hearing and not subject to further review, unless—
(i) You or another party requests that the hearing continue, as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(ii) The Appeals Council decides to review the decision on its own motion under the authority provided in § 404.969;
(iii) The decision is revised under the procedures explained in §§ 404.987 through 404.989; or
(iv) In a case remanded by a Federal court, the Appeals Council assumes jurisdiction under the procedures in § 404.984.
(3)
Fee for a representative's services.
The adjudication officer may authorize a fee for your representative's services if the adjudication officer makes a decision on your claim that is fully favorable to you, and you are represented. The actions of, and any fee authorization made by, the adjudication officer with respect to representation will be made in accordance with the provisions of subpart R of this part.
(d)
Who may be an adjudication officer.
The adjudication officer described in this section may be an employee of the Social Security Administration or a State agency that makes disability determinations for us.
[60 FR 47475, Sept. 13, 1995, as amended at 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010]

# Administrative Law Judge Hearing Procedures
§ 404.944
Administrative law judge hearing procedures—general.
A hearing is open to the parties and to other persons the administrative law judge considers necessary and proper. At the hearing, the administrative law judge looks fully into the issues, questions you and the other witnesses, and, subject to the provisions of § 404.935, accepts as evidence any documents that are material to the issues; may stop the hearing temporarily and continue it at a later date if the administrative law judge finds that there is material evidence missing at the hearing or one or more variables outside of our control, such as audio quality or video quality, materially affects the hearing; and may reopen the hearing at any time before the administrative law judge mails a notice of the decision in order to receive new and material evidence. For purposes of this section, materially affects means prevents the hearing from proceeding. The administrative law judge may decide when the evidence will be presented and when the issues will be discussed.
[89 FR 68362, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.946
Issues before an administrative law judge.
(a)
General.
The issues before the administrative law judge include all the issues brought out in the initial, reconsidered or revised determination that were not decided entirely in your favor. However, if evidence presented before or during the hearing causes the administrative law judge to question a fully favorable determination, he or she will notify you and will consider it an issue at the hearing.
(b)
New issues
—(1)
General.
The administrative law judge may consider a new issue at the hearing if he or she notifies you and all the parties about the new issue any time after receiving the hearing request and before mailing notice of the hearing decision. The administrative law judge or any party may raise a new issue; an issue may be raised even though it arose after the request for a hearing and even though it has not been considered in an initial or reconsidered determination. However, it may not be raised if it involves a claim that is within the jurisdiction of a State agency under a Federal-State agreement concerning the determination of disability.
(2)
Notice of a new issue.
The administrative law judge shall notify you and any other party if he or she will consider any new issue. Notice of the time and place of the hearing on any new issues will be given in the manner described in § 404.938, unless you have indicated in writing that you do not wish to receive the notice.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.948
Deciding a case without an oral hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
Decision fully favorable.
If the evidence in the hearing record supports a finding in favor of you and all the parties on every issue, the administrative law judge may issue a hearing decision based on a preponderance of the evidence without holding an oral hearing. The notice of the decision will state that you have the right to an oral hearing and to examine the evidence on which the administrative law judge based the decision.
(b)
Parties do not wish to appear.
(1) The administrative law judge may decide a case on the record and not conduct an oral hearing if—
(i) You and all the parties indicate in writing that you do not wish to appear before the administrative law judge at an oral hearing; or
(ii) You live outside the United States, you do not inform us that you wish to appear, and there are no other parties who wish to appear.
(2) When an oral hearing is not held, the administrative law judge shall make a record of the material evidence. The record will include the applications, written statements, certificates, reports, affidavits, and other documents that were used in making the determination under review and any additional evidence you or any other party to the hearing present in writing. The decision of the administrative law judge must be based on this record.
(c)
Case remanded for a revised determination.
(1) The administrative law judge may remand a case to the appropriate component of our office for a revised determination if there is reason to believe that the revised determination would be fully favorable to you. This could happen if the administrative law judge receives new and material evidence or if there is a change in the law that permits the favorable determination.
(2) Unless you request the remand, the administrative law judge shall notify you that your case has been remanded and tell you that if you object, you must notify him or her of your objections within 10 days of the date the case is remanded or we will assume that you agree to the remand. If you object to the remand, the administrative law judge will consider the objection and rule on it in writing.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008; 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010; 76 FR 65370, Oct. 21, 2011]
§ 404.949
Presenting written statements and oral arguments.
You or a person you designate to act as your representative may appear before the administrative law judge to state your case, present a written summary of your case, or enter written statements about the facts and law material to your case in the record. If presenting written statements prior to hearing, you must provide a copy of your written statements for each party no later than 5 business days before the date set for the hearing, unless you show that your circumstances meet the conditions described in § 404.935(b).
[81 FR 90993, Dec. 16, 2016
§ 404.950
Presenting evidence at a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
The right to appear and present evidence.
Any party to a hearing has a right to appear before the administrative law judge, in the manner set forth in § 404.936, to present evidence and to state their position. A party may also make their appearance by means of a designated representative, who may make their appearance in the manner set forth in § 404.936.
(b)
Waiver of the right to appear.
You may send the administrative law judge a waiver or a written statement indicating that you do not wish to appear at the hearing. You may withdraw this waiver any time before a notice of the hearing decision is mailed to you. Even if all of the parties waive their right to appear at a hearing, we may notify them of a time and a place for an oral hearing, if the administrative law judge believes that a personal appearance and testimony by you or any other party is necessary to decide the case.
(c)
Admissible evidence.
Subject to the provisions of § 404.935, the administrative law judge may receive any evidence at the hearing that he or she believes is material to the issues, even though the evidence would not be admissible in court under the rules of evidence used by the court.
(d)
Subpoenas.
(1) When it is reasonably necessary for the full presentation of a case, an administrative law judge or a member of the Appeals Council may, on his or her own initiative or at the request of a party, issue subpoenas for the appearance and testimony of witnesses and for the production of books, records, correspondence, papers, or other documents that are material to an issue at the hearing.
(2) Parties to a hearing who wish to subpoena documents or witnesses must file a written request for the issuance of a subpoena with the administrative law judge or at one of our offices at least 10 business days before the hearing date, unless you show that your circumstances meet the conditions described in § 404.935(b). The written request must give the names of the witnesses or documents to be produced; describe the address or location of the witnesses or documents with sufficient detail to find them; state the important facts that the witness or document is expected to prove; and indicate why these facts could not be proven without issuing a subpoena.
(3) We will pay the cost of issuing the subpoena.
(4) We will pay subpoenaed witnesses the same fees and mileage they would receive if they had been subpoenaed by a Federal district court.
(e)
Witnesses at a hearing.
Witnesses you call may appear at a hearing with you in the same manner in which you are scheduled to appear. If they are unable to appear with you in the same manner as you, they may appear as prescribed in § 404.936(c)(2). Witnesses called by the administrative law judge will appear in the manner prescribed in § 404.936(c)(2). They will testify under oath or affirmation unless the administrative law judge finds an important reason to excuse them from taking an oath or affirmation. The administrative law judge may ask the witness any questions material to the issues and will allow the parties or their designated representatives to do so.
(f)
Collateral estoppel—issues previously decided.
An issue at your hearing may be a fact that has already been decided in one of our previous determinations or decisions in a claim involving the same parties, but arising under a different title of the Act or under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act. If this happens, the administrative law judge will not consider the issue again, but will accept the factual finding made in the previous determination or decision unless there are reasons to believe that it was wrong.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 68 FR 5219, Feb. 3, 2003; 75 FR 39160, July 8, 2010; 78 FR 29627, May 21, 2013; 81 FR 90993, Dec. 16, 2016; 84 FR 69306, Dec. 18, 2019; 89 FR 68362, Aug. 26, 2024]
§ 404.951
Official record.
(a)
Hearing recording.
All hearings will be recorded. The hearing recording will be prepared as a typed copy of the proceedings if—
(1) The case is sent to the Appeals Council without a decision or with a recommended decision by the administrative law judge;
(2) You seek judicial review of your case by filing an action in a Federal district court within the stated time period, unless we request the court to remand the case; or
(3) An administrative law judge or the Appeals Council asks for a written record of the proceedings.
(b)
Contents of the official record.
All evidence upon which the administrative law judge relies for the decision must be contained in the record, either directly or by appropriate reference. The official record will include the applications, written statements, certificates, reports, affidavits, medical records, and other documents that were used in making the decision under review and any additional evidence or written statements that the administrative law judge admits into the record under §§ 404.929 and 404.935. All exhibits introduced as evidence must be marked for identification and incorporated into the record. The official record of your claim will contain all of the marked exhibits and a verbatim recording of all testimony offered at the hearing. It also will include any prior initial determinations or decisions on your claim.
[81 FR 90994, Dec. 16, 2016
§ 404.952
Consolidated hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a)
General.
(1) A consolidated hearing may be held if—
(i) You have requested a hearing to decide your benefit rights under title II of the Act and you have also requested a hearing to decide your rights under another law we administer; and
(ii) One or more of the issues to be considered at the hearing you requested are the same issues that are involved in another claim you have pending before us.
(2) If the administrative law judge decides to hold the hearing on both claims, he or she decides both claims, even if we have not yet made an initial or reconsidered determination on the other claim.
(b)
Record, evidence, and decision.
There will be a single record at a consolidated hearing. This means that the evidence introduced in one case becomes evidence in the other(s). The administrative law judge may make either a separate or consolidated decision.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.953
The decision of an administrative law judge.
(a)
General.
The administrative law judge shall issue a written decision that gives the findings of fact and the
reasons for the decision. The administrative law judge must base the decision on the preponderance of the evidence offered at the hearing or otherwise included in the record. The administrative law judge shall mail a copy of the decision to all the parties at their last known address. The Appeals Council may also receive a copy of the decision.
(b)
Fully favorable oral decision entered into the record at the hearing.
The administrative law judge may enter a fully favorable oral decision based on the preponderance of the evidence into the record of the hearing proceedings. If the administrative law judge enters a fully favorable oral decision into the record of the hearing proceedings, the administrative law judge may issue a written decision that incorporates the oral decision by reference. The administrative law judge may use this procedure only in those categories of cases that we identify in advance. The administrative law judge may only use this procedure in those cases where the administrative law judge determines that no changes are required in the findings of fact or the reasons for the decision as stated at the hearing. If a fully favorable decision is entered into the record at the hearing, the administrative law judge will also include in the record, as an exhibit entered into the record at the hearing, a document that sets forth the key data, findings of fact, and narrative rationale for the decision. If the decision incorporates by reference the findings and the reasons stated in an oral decision at the hearing, the parties shall also be provided, upon written request, a record of the oral decision.
(c)
Recommended decision.
Although an administrative law judge will usually make a decision, the administrative law judge may send the case to the Appeals Council with a recommended decision based on a preponderance of the evidence when appropriate. The administrative law judge will mail a copy of the recommended decision to the parties at their last known addresses and send the recommended decision to the Appeals Council.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 54 FR 37792, Sept. 13, 1989; 69 FR 61597, Oct. 20, 2004; 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008; 75 FR 33168, June 11, 2010]
§ 404.955
The effect of a hearing decision.
The decision of the administrative law judge is binding on all parties to the hearing unless—
(a) You or another party request a review of the decision by the Appeals Council within the stated time period, and the Appeals Council reviews your case;
(b) You or another party requests a review of the decision by the Appeals Council within the stated time period, the Appeals Council denies your request for review, and you seek judicial review of your case by filing an action in a Federal district court;
(c) The Appeals Council decides on its own motion to review the decision under the procedures in § 404.969;
(d) The decision is revised by an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council under the procedures explained in § 404.987;
(e) The expedited appeals process is used;
(f) The decision is a recommended decision directed to the Appeals Council; or
(g) In a case remanded by a Federal court, the Appeals Council assumes jurisdiction under the procedures in § 404.984.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 54 FR 37792, Sept. 13, 1989; 85 FR 73157, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.956
Removal of a hearing request(s) to the Appeals Council.
(a)
Removal.
The Appeals Council may assume responsibility for a hearing request(s) pending at the hearing level of the administrative review process.
(b)
Notice.
We will mail a notice to all parties at their last known address telling them that the Appeals Council has assumed responsibility for the case(s).
(c)
Procedures applied.
If the Appeals Council assumes responsibility for a hearing request(s), it shall conduct all
proceedings in accordance with the rules set forth in §§ 404.929 through 404.961, as applicable.
(d)
Appeals Council review.
If the Appeals Council assumes responsibility for your hearing request under this section and you or any other party is dissatisfied with the hearing decision or with the dismissal of a hearing request, you may request that the Appeals Council review that action following the procedures in §§ 404.967 through 404.982. The Appeals Council may also decide on its own motion to review the action that was taken in your case under § 404.969. The administrative appeals judge who conducted a hearing, issued a hearing decision in your case, or dismissed your hearing request will not participate in any action associated with your request for Appeals Council review of that case.
(e)
Ancillary provisions.
For the purposes of the procedures authorized by this section, the regulations of part 404 shall apply to authorize a member of the Appeals Council to exercise the functions performed by an administrative law judge under subpart J of part 404.
[85 FR 73157, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 404.957
Dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
An administrative law judge may dismiss a request for a hearing under any of the following conditions:
(a) At any time before notice of the hearing decision is mailed, you or the party or parties that requested the hearing ask to withdraw the request. This request may be submitted in writing to the administrative law judge or made orally at the hearing.
(b)(1)(i) Neither you nor the person you designate to act as your representative appears at the time and place set for the hearing and you have been notified before the time set for the hearing that your request for hearing may be dismissed without further notice if you did not appear at the time and place of hearing, and good cause has not been found by the administrative law judge for your failure to appear; or
(ii) Neither you nor the person you designate to act as your representative appears at the time and place set for the hearing and within 10 days after the administrative law judge mails you a notice asking why you did not appear, you do not give a good reason for the failure to appear.
(2) In determining good cause or good reason under this paragraph, we will consider any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have.
(c) The administrative law judge decides that there is cause to dismiss a hearing request entirely or to refuse to consider any one or more of the issues because—
(1) The doctrine of
res judicata
applies in that we have made a previous determination or decision under this subpart about your rights on the same facts and on the same issue or issues, and this previous determination or decision has become final by either administrative or judicial action;
(2) The person requesting a hearing has no right to it under § 404.930;
(3) You did not request a hearing within the stated time period and we have not extended the time for requesting a hearing under § 404.933(c); or
(4) You die, there are no other parties, and we have no information to show that another person may be adversely affected by the determination that was to be reviewed at the hearing. However, dismissal of the hearing request will be vacated if, within 60 days after the date of the dismissal, another person submits a written request for a hearing on the claim and shows that he or she may be adversely affected by the determination that was to be reviewed at the hearing.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 21438, May 24, 1985; 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986; 59 FR 1634, Jan. 12, 1994]
§ 404.958
Notice of dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
We shall mail a written notice of the dismissal of the hearing request to all parties at their last known address. The notice will state that there is a right to request that the Appeals Council vacate the dismissal action.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.959
Effect of dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
The dismissal of a request for a hearing is binding, unless it is vacated by an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1986]
§ 404.960
Vacating a dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council may vacate a dismissal of a request for a hearing if you request that we vacate the dismissal. If you or another party wish to make this request, you must do so within 60 days of the date you receive notice of the dismissal, and you must state why our dismissal of your request for a hearing was erroneous. The administrative law judge or Appeals Council will inform you in writing of the action taken on your request. The Appeals Council may also vacate a dismissal of a request for a hearing on its own motion. If the Appeals Council decides to vacate a dismissal on its own motion, it will do so within 60 days of the date we mail the notice of dismissal and will inform you in writing that it vacated the dismissal.
(b) If you wish to proceed with a hearing after you received a fully favorable revised determination under the prehearing case review process in § 404.941, you must follow the procedures in § 404.941(d) to request that an administrative law judge vacate his or her order dismissing your request for a hearing.
[76 FR 65370, Oct. 21, 2011]
§ 404.961
Prehearing and posthearing conferences.
The administrative law judge may decide on his or her own, or at the request of any party to the hearing, to hold a prehearing or posthearing conference to facilitate the hearing or the hearing decision. The administrative law judge shall tell the parties of the time, place and purpose of the conference at least seven days before the conference date, unless the parties have indicated in writing that they do not wish to receive a written notice of the conference. At the conference, the administrative law judge may consider matters in addition to those stated in the notice, if the parties consent in writing. A record of the conference will be made. The administrative law judge shall issue an order stating all agreements and actions resulting from the conference. If the parties do not object, the agreements and actions become part of the hearing record and are binding on all parties.
§ 404.965
[Reserved]

# Appeals Council Review
§ 404.966
[Reserved]
§ 404.967
Appeals Council review—general.
If you or any other party is dissatisfied with the hearing decision or with the dismissal of a hearing request, you may request that the Appeals Council review that action. The Appeals Council may deny or dismiss the request for review, or it may grant the request and either issue a decision or remand the case to an administrative law judge. The Appeals Council shall notify the parties at their last known address of the action it takes.
§ 404.968
How to request Appeals Council review.
(a)
Time and place to request Appeals Council review.
You may request Appeals Council review by filing a written request. You should submit any evidence you wish to have considered by the Appeals Council with your request for review, and the Appeals Council will consider the evidence in accordance with § 404.970. You may file your request—
(1) Within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the hearing decision or dismissal (or within the extended time period if we extend the time as provided in paragraph (b) of this section);
(2) At one of our offices, the Veterans Administration Regional Office in the Philippines, or an office of the Railroad Retirement Board if you have 10 or
more years of service in the railroad industry.
(b)
Extension of time to request review.
You or any party to a hearing decision may ask that the time for filing a request for the review be extended. The request for an extension of time must be in writing. It must be filed with the Appeals Council, and it must give the reasons why the request for review was not filed within the stated time period. If you show that you had good cause for missing the deadline, the time period will be extended. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 404.911.
[45 FR 52081, Aug. 5, 1980, as amended at 81 FR 90993, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 404.969
Appeals Council initiates review.
(a)
General.
Anytime within 60 days after the date of a decision or dismissal that is subject to review under this section, the Appeals Council may decide on its own motion to review the action that was taken in your case. We may refer your case to the Appeals Council for it to consider reviewing under this authority.
(b)
Identification of cases.
We will identify a case for referral to the Appeals Council for possible review under its own-motion authority before we effectuate a decision in the case. We will identify cases for referral to the Appeals Council through random and selective sampling techniques, which we may use in association with examination of the cases identified by sampling. We will also identify cases for referral to the Appeals Council through the evaluation of cases we conduct in order to effectuate decisions.
(1)
