) Could materially and adversely affect the ability of the security-based swap dealer to conduct its business as conducted on the date the subordinated loan agreement was made; or
(
3
) Is a significant change in the senior management of the security-based swap dealer or in the general business conducted by the security-based swap dealer from that which obtained on the date the subordinated loan agreement became effective;
(E) Any continued failure to perform agreed covenants included in the subordinated loan agreement relating to the conduct of the business of the security-based swap dealer or relating to the maintenance and reporting of its financial position; and
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, a subordinated loan agreement may provide that, if liquidation of the business of the security-based swap dealer has not already commenced, the Payment Obligation of the security-based swap dealer shall mature, together with accrued interest or compensation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (as hereinafter defined). Such agreement may also provide that, if liquidation of the business of the security-based swap dealer has not already commenced, the rapid and orderly liquidation of the business of the security-based swap
dealer shall then commence upon the happening of an Event of Default. Any subordinated loan agreement which so provides for maturity of the Payment Obligation upon the occurrence of an Event of Default shall also provide that the date on which such Event of Default occurs shall, if liquidation of the security-based swap dealer has not already commenced, be the date on which the Payment Obligations of the security-based swap dealer with respect to all other subordinated loan agreements then outstanding shall mature but the rights of the respective lenders to receive Payment, together with accrued interest or compensation, shall remain subordinate as required by the provisions of this section. Events of Default which may be included in a subordinated loan agreement shall be limited to:
(A) The net capital of the security-based swap dealer falling to an amount below its minimum requirement under § 240.18a-1, or, if the security-based swap dealer is approved to calculate net capital under § 240.18a-1(d), its tentative net capital falling below the minimum requirement, throughout a period of 15 consecutive business days, commencing on the day the security-based swap dealer first determines and notifies the Commission, or the Commission first determines and notifies the security-based swap dealer of such fact;
(B) The Commission revoking the registration of the security-based swap dealer;
(C) The Commission suspending (and not reinstating within 10 days) the registration of the security-based swap dealer;
(D) Any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization whether or not pursuant to bankruptcy laws, or any other marshalling of the assets and liabilities of the security-based swap dealer. A subordinated loan agreement that contains any of the provisions permitted by this paragraph (b)(9) shall not contain the provision otherwise permitted by paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section.
(c)
Miscellaneous provisions
—(1)
Prohibited cancellation.
The subordinated loan agreement shall not be subject to cancellation by either party; no Payment shall be made with respect thereto and the agreement shall not be terminated, rescinded or modified by mutual consent or otherwise if the effect thereof would be inconsistent with the requirements of §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-1d.
(2)
Notification.
Every security-based swap dealer shall immediately notify the Commission if, after giving effect to all Payments of Payment Obligations under subordinated loan agreements then outstanding that are then due or mature within the following six months without reference to any projected profit or loss of the security-based swap dealer, either its net capital would fall below 120 percent of its minimum requirement under § 240.18a-1, or, if the security-based swap dealer is approved to calculate net capital under § 240.18a-1(d), its tentative net capital would fall to an amount below 120 percent of the minimum requirement.
(3)
Certain legends.
If all the provisions of a satisfactory subordinated loan agreement do not appear in a single instrument, then the debenture or other evidence of indebtedness shall bear on its face an appropriate legend stating that it is issued subject to the provisions of a satisfactory subordinated loan agreement which shall be adequately referred to and incorporated by reference.
(4)
Revolving subordinated loan agreements.
A security-based swap dealer shall be permitted to enter into a revolving subordinated loan agreement that provides for prepayment within less than one year of all or any portion of the Payment Obligation thereunder at the option of the security-based swap dealer upon the prior written approval of the Commission. The Commission, however, shall not approve any prepayment if:
(i) After giving effect thereto (and to all Payments of Payment Obligations under any other subordinated loan agreements then outstanding, the maturity or accelerated maturities of which are scheduled to fall due within six months after the date such prepayment is to occur pursuant to this provision or on or prior to the date on
which the Payment Obligation in respect of such prepayment is scheduled to mature disregarding this provision, whichever date is earlier) without reference to any projected profit or loss of the security-based swap dealer, either its net capital would fall below 120 percent of its minimum requirement under § 240.18a-1, or, if the security-based swap dealer is approved to calculate net capital under § 240.18a-1(d), its tentative net capital would fall to an amount below 120 percent of the minimum requirement; or
(ii) Pre-tax losses during the latest three-month period equaled more than 15 percent of current excess net capital. Any subordinated loan agreement entered into pursuant to this paragraph (c)(4) shall be subject to all the other provisions of this section. Any such subordinated loan agreement shall not be considered equity for purposes of § 240.18a-1(g), despite the length of the initial term of the loan.
(5)
Filing.
Two copies of any proposed subordinated loan agreement (including nonconforming subordinated loan agreements) shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the proposed execution date of the agreement with the Commission. The security-based swap dealer shall also file with the Commission a statement setting forth the name and address of the lender, the business relationship of the lender to the security-based swap dealer, and whether the security-based swap dealer carried an account for the lender for effecting transactions in security-based swaps at or about the time the proposed agreement was so filed. All agreements shall be examined by the Commission prior to their becoming effective. No proposed agreement shall be a satisfactory subordinated loan agreement for the purposes of this section unless and until the Commission has found the agreement acceptable and such agreement has become effective in the form found acceptable.
[84 FR 44065, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-2
Capital requirements for major security-based swap participants for which there is not a prudential regulator.
(a) Every major security-based swap participant for which there is not a prudential regulator and is not registered as a broker or dealer pursuant to section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) must at all times have and maintain positive tangible net worth.
(b) The term
tangible net worth
means the net worth of the major security-based swap participant as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets. In determining net worth, all long and short positions in security-based swaps, swaps, and related positions must be marked to their market value. A major security-based swap participant must include in its computation of tangible net worth all liabilities or obligations of a subsidiary or affiliate that the participant guarantees, endorses, or assumes either directly or indirectly.
(c) Every major security-based swap participant must comply with § 240.15c3-4 as though it were an OTC derivatives dealer with respect to its security-based swap and swap activities, except that § 240.15c3-4(c)(5)(xiii) and (xiv) and (d)(8) and (9) shall not apply.
[84 FR 44068, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-3
Non-cleared security-based swap margin requirements for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants for which there is not a prudential regulator.
(a) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant for which there is not a prudential regulator must comply with this section.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
account
means an account carried by a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that holds one or more non-cleared security-based swaps for a counterparty.
(2) The term
commercial end user
means a counterparty that qualifies for an exception from clearing under section 3C(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(g)(1)) and implementing regulations or satisfies the criteria in section 3C(g)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3(g)(4)) and implementing regulations.
(3) The term
counterparty
means a person with whom the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has entered into a non-cleared security-based swap transaction.
(4) The term
initial margin amount
means the amount calculated pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(5) The term
non-cleared security-based swap
means a security-based swap that is not, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or by a clearing agency that the Commission has exempted from registration by rule or order pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
(6) The term
security-based swap legacy account
means an account that holds no security-based swaps entered into after the compliance date of this section and that only is used to hold one or more security-based swaps entered into prior to the compliance date of this section and collateral for those security-based swaps.
(c)
Margin requirements
—(1)
Security-based swap dealers
—(i)
Calculation required.
A security-based swap dealer must calculate with respect to each account of a counterparty as of the close of each business day:
(A) The amount of the current exposure in the account of the counterparty; and
(B) The initial margin amount for the account of the counterparty.
(ii)
Account equity requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, a security-based swap dealer must take an action required in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section by no later than the close of business of the first business day following the day of the calculation required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section or, if the counterparty is located in another country and more than four time zones away, the second business day following the day of the calculation required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section:
(A)(
1
) Collect from the counterparty collateral in an amount equal to the current exposure that the security-based swap dealer has to the counterparty; or
(
2)
Deliver to the counterparty collateral in an amount equal to the current exposure that the counterparty has to the security-based swap dealer, provided that such amount does not include the initial margin amount collected from the counterparty under paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(B) Collect from the counterparty collateral in an amount equal to the initial margin amount.
(iii)
Exceptions
—(A)
Commercial end users.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is a commercial end user.
(B)
Counterparties that are financial market intermediaries.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is a security-based swap dealer, swap dealer, broker or dealer, futures commission merchant, bank, foreign bank, or foreign broker or dealer.
(C)
Counterparties that use third-party custodians.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that delivers the collateral to meet the initial margin amount to an independent third-party custodian.
(D)
Security-based swap legacy accounts.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section do not apply to a security-based swap legacy account.
(E)
Bank for International Settlements, European Stability Mechanism, and Multilateral development banks.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is the Bank for International Settlements or the European Stability Mechanism, or is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, or any other
multilateral development bank that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member.
(F)
Sovereign entities.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is a central government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government if the security-based swap dealer has determined that the counterparty has only a minimal amount of credit risk pursuant to policies and procedures or credit risk models established pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 or § 240.18a-1 (as applicable).
(G)
Affiliates.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is an affiliate of the security-based swap dealer.
(H)
Threshold amount.
(
1
) A security-based swap dealer may elect not to collect the initial margin amount required under paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section to the extent that the sum of that amount plus all other credit exposures resulting from non-cleared swaps and non-cleared security-based swaps of the security-based swap dealer and its affiliates with the counterparty and its affiliates does not exceed $50 million. For purposes of this calculation, a security-based swap dealer need not include any exposures arising from non-cleared security based swap transactions with a counterparty that is a commercial end user, and non-cleared swap transactions with a counterparty that qualifies for an exception from margin requirements pursuant to section 4s(e)(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6s(e)(4)).
(
2
)
One-time deferral.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(H)(
1
) of this section, a security-based swap dealer may defer collecting the initial margin amount required under paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section for up to two months following the month in which a counterparty no longer qualifies for this threshold exception for the first time.
(I)
Minimum transfer amount.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this rule, a security-based swap dealer is not required to collect or deliver collateral pursuant to this section with respect to a particular counterparty unless and until the total amount of collateral that is required to be collected or delivered, and has not yet been collected or delivered, with respect to the counterparty is greater than $500,000.
(2)
Major security-based swap participants
—(i)
Calculation required.
A major security-based swap participant must with respect to each account of a counterparty calculate as of the close of each business day the amount of the current exposure in the account of the counterparty.
(ii)
Account equity requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, a major security-based swap participant must take an action required in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section by no later than the close of business of the first business day following the day of the calculation required under paragraph (c)(2)(i) or, if the counterparty is located in another country and more than four time zones away, the second business day following the day of the calculation required under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section:
(A) Collect from the counterparty collateral in an amount equal to the current exposure that the major security-based swap participant has to the counterparty; or
(B) Deliver to the counterparty collateral in an amount equal to the current exposure that the counterparty has to the major security-based swap participant.
(iii)
Exceptions
—(A)
Commercial end users.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is a commercial end user.
(B)
Security-based swap legacy accounts.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section do not apply to a security-based swap legacy account.
(C)
Bank for International Settlements, European Stability Mechanism, and Multilateral development banks.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section do not apply to an account of a counterparty that is the Bank for International Settlements or the European Stability Mechanism, or is the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, or any other multilateral development bank that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member.
(D)
Minimum transfer amount.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this rule, a major security-based swap participant is not required to collect or deliver collateral pursuant to this section with respect to a particular counterparty unless and until the total amount of collateral that is required to be collected or delivered, and has not yet been collected or delivered, with respect to the counterparty is greater than $500,000.
(3)
Deductions for collateral.
(i) The fair market value of collateral delivered by a counterparty or the security-based swap dealer must be reduced by the amount of the standardized deductions the security-based swap dealer would apply to the collateral pursuant to § 240.15c3-1 or § 240.18a-1, as applicable, for the purpose of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the fair market value of assets delivered as collateral by a counterparty or the security-based swap dealer may be reduced by the amount of the standardized deductions prescribed in 17 CFR 23.156 if the security-based swap dealer applies these standardized deductions consistently with respect to the particular counterparty.
(4)
Collateral requirements.
A security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant when calculating the amounts under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section may take into account the fair market value of collateral delivered by a counterparty provided:
(i) The collateral:
(A) Has a ready market;
(B) Is readily transferable;
(C) Consists of cash, securities, money market instruments, a major foreign currency, the settlement currency of the non-cleared security-based swap, or gold;
(D) Does not consist of securities and/or money market instruments issued by the counterparty or a party related to the security-based swap dealer, the major security-based swap participant, or the counterparty; and
(E) Is subject to an agreement between the security-based swap dealer or the major security-based swap participant and the counterparty that is legally enforceable by the security-based swap dealer or the major security-based swap participant against the counterparty and any other parties to the agreement; and
(ii) The collateral is either:
(A) Subject to the physical possession or control of the security-based swap dealer or the major security-based swap participant and may be liquidated promptly by the security-based swap dealer or the major security-based swap participant without intervention by any other party; or
(B) The collateral is carried by an independent third-party custodian that is a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty or, if the collateral consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that is not affiliated with the counterparty and that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies.
(5)
Qualified netting agreements.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may include the effect of a netting agreement that allows the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to net gross receivables from and gross payables to a counterparty upon the default of the counterparty, for the purposes of the
calculations required pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(2)(i) of this section, if:
(i) The netting agreement is legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction, including in insolvency proceedings;
(ii) The gross receivables and gross payables that are subject to the netting agreement with a counterparty can be determined at any time; and
(iii) For internal risk management purposes, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant monitors and controls its exposure to the counterparty on a net basis.
(6)
Frequency of calculations increased.
The calculations required pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(2)(i) of this section must be made more frequently than the close of each business day during periods of extreme volatility and for accounts with concentrated positions.
(7)
Liquidation.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must take prompt steps to liquidate positions in an account that does not meet the margin requirements of this section to the extent necessary to eliminate the margin deficiency.
(d)
Calculating initial margin amount.
A security-based swap dealer must calculate the initial margin amount required by paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section for non-cleared security-based swaps as follows:
(1)
Standardized approach
—(i)
Credit default swaps.
For credit default swaps, the security-based swap dealer must use the method specified in § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
) or, if the security-based swap dealer is registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer, the method specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(P)(
1
).
(ii)
All other security-based swaps.
For security-based swaps other than credit default swaps, the security-based swap dealer must use the method specified in § 240.18a-1(c)(1)(vi)(B)(
2
) or, if the security-based swap dealer is registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer, the method specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(P)(
2
).
(2)
Model approach.
(i) For security-based swaps other than equity security-based swaps, a security-based swap dealer may apply to the Commission for authorization to use and be responsible for a model to calculate the initial margin amount required by paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section subject to the application process in § 240.15c3-1e or § 240.18a-1(d), as applicable. The model must use a 99 percent, one-tailed confidence level with price changes equivalent to a ten business-day movement in rates and prices, and must use risk factors sufficient to cover all the material price risks inherent in the positions for which the initial margin amount is being calculated, including foreign exchange or interest rate risk, credit risk, equity risk, and commodity risk, as appropriate. Empirical correlations may be recognized by the model within each broad risk category, but not across broad risk categories.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, a security-based swap dealer that is not registered as a broker or dealer pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)), other than as an OTC derivatives dealer, may apply to the Commission for authorization to use a model to calculate the initial margin amount required by paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section for equity security-based swaps, subject to the application process and model requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; provided, however, the account of the counterparty subject to the requirements of this paragraph may not hold equity security positions other than equity security-based swaps and equity swaps.
(e)
Risk monitoring and procedures.
A security-based swap dealer must monitor the risk of each account and establish, maintain, and document procedures and guidelines for monitoring the risk of accounts as part of the risk management control system required by § 240.15c3-4. The security-based swap dealer must review, in accordance with written procedures, at reasonable periodic intervals, its non-cleared security-based swap activities for consistency with the risk monitoring procedures and guidelines required by this section. The security-based swap dealer also must determine whether information and data necessary to apply the risk monitoring procedures and guidelines required by this section are accessible
on a timely basis and whether information systems are available to adequately capture, monitor, analyze, and report relevant data and information. The risk monitoring procedures and guidelines must include, at a minimum, procedures and guidelines for:
(1) Obtaining and reviewing account documentation and financial information necessary for assessing the amount of current and potential future exposure to a given counterparty permitted by the security-based swap dealer;
(2) Determining, approving, and periodically reviewing credit limits for each counterparty, and across all counterparties;
(3) Monitoring credit risk exposure to the security-based swap dealer from non-cleared security-based swaps, including the type, scope, and frequency of reporting to senior management;
(4) Using stress tests to monitor potential future exposure to a single counterparty and across all counterparties over a specified range of possible market movements over a specified time period;
(5) Managing the impact of credit exposure related to non-cleared security-based swaps on the security-based swap dealer's overall risk exposure;
(6) Determining the need to collect collateral from a particular counterparty, including whether that determination was based upon the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the risk of the specific non-cleared security-based swap contracts with the counterparty;
(7) Monitoring the credit exposure resulting from concentrated positions with a single counterparty and across all counterparties, and during periods of extreme volatility; and
(8) Maintaining sufficient equity in the account of each counterparty to protect against the largest individual potential future exposure of a non-cleared security-based swap carried in the account of the counterparty as measured by computing the largest maximum possible loss that could result from the exposure.
[84 FR 44068, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-4
Segregation requirements for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
Section 240.18a-4 applies to a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant registered under section 15F(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)), including a security-based swap dealer that is an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12. A security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is also a broker or dealer registered under section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o), other than an
OTC derivatives dealer,
is subject to the customer protection requirements under § 240.15c3-3, including paragraph (p) of that rule with respect to its security-based swap activity.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term
cleared security-based swap
means a security-based swap that is, directly or indirectly, submitted to and cleared by a clearing agency registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1);
(2) The term
excess securities collateral
means securities and money market instruments carried for the account of a security-based swap customer that have a market value in excess of the current exposure of the security-based swap dealer (after reducing the current exposure by the amount of cash in the account) to the security-based swap customer, excluding:
(i) Securities and money market instruments held in a qualified clearing agency account but only to the extent the securities and money market instruments are being used to meet a margin requirement of the clearing agency resulting from a security-based swap transaction of the security-based swap customer; and
(ii) Securities and money market instruments held in a qualified registered security-based swap dealer account or in a third-party custodial account but only to the extent the securities and money market instruments are being used to meet a regulatory margin requirement of another security-based swap dealer resulting from the security-based swap dealer entering into a
non-cleared security-based swap transaction with the other security-based swap dealer to offset the risk of a non-cleared security-based swap transaction between the security-based swap dealer and the security-based swap customer.
(3) The term
foreign major security-based swap participant
has the meaning set forth in § 240.3a67-10(a)(6).
(4) The term
foreign security-based swap dealer
has the meaning set forth in § 240.3a71-3(a)(7).
(5) The term
qualified clearing agency account
means an account of a security-based swap dealer at a clearing agency registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that holds funds and other property in order to margin, guarantee, or secure cleared security-based swap transactions for the security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer that meets the following conditions:
(i) The account is designated “Special Clearing Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Cleared Security-Based Swap Customers of [name of security-based swap dealer]”;
(ii) The clearing agency has acknowledged in a written notice provided to and retained by the security-based swap dealer that the funds and other property in the account are being held by the clearing agency for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the security-based swap dealer with the clearing agency; and
(iii) The account is subject to a written contract between the security-based swap dealer and the clearing agency which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the clearing agency or any person claiming through the clearing agency, except a right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim resulting from a cleared security-based swap transaction effected in the account.
(6) The term
qualified registered security-based swap dealer account
means an account at another security-based swap dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to section 15F of the Act that meets the following conditions:
(i) The account is designated “Special Reserve Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Security-Based Swap Customers of [name of security-based swap dealer]”;
(ii) The other security-based swap dealer has acknowledged in a written notice provided to and retained by the security-based swap dealer that the funds and other property held in the account are being held by the other security-based swap dealer for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the security-based swap dealer with the other security-based swap dealer;
(iii) The account is subject to a written contract between the security-based swap dealer and the other security-based swap dealer which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the other security-based swap dealer or any person claiming through the other security-based swap dealer, except a right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim resulting from a non-cleared security-based swap transaction effected in the account; and
(iv) The account and the assets in the account are not subject to any type of subordination agreement between the security-based swap dealer and the other security-based swap dealer.
(7) The term
qualified security
means:
(i) Obligations of the United States;
(ii) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States; and
(iii) General obligations of any State or a political subdivision of a State that:
(A) Are not traded flat and are not in default;
(B) Were part of an initial offering of $500 million or greater; and
(C) Were issued by an issuer that has published audited financial statements within 120 days of its most recent fiscal year end.
(8) The term
security-based swap customer
means any person from whom or on whose behalf the security-based swap dealer has received or acquired or holds funds or other property for the account of the person with respect to a cleared or non-cleared security-based swap transaction. The term does not include a person to the extent that person has a claim for funds or other property which by contract, agreement or understanding, or by operation of law, is part of the capital of the security-based swap dealer or is subordinated to all claims of security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer.
(9) The term
special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers
means an account at a bank that meets the following conditions:
(i) The account is designated “Special Reserve Account for the Exclusive Benefit of the Security-Based Swap Customers of [name of security-based swap dealer]”;
(ii) The account is subject to a written acknowledgement by the bank provided to and retained by the security-based swap dealer that the funds and other property held in the account are being held by the bank for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the security-based swap dealer with the bank; and
(iii) The account is subject to a written contract between the security-based swap dealer and the bank which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan or other extension of credit to the security-based swap dealer by the bank and, shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank or any person claiming through the bank.
(10) The term
third-party custodial account
means an account carried by an independent third-party custodian that meets the following conditions:
(i) The account is established for the purposes of meeting regulatory margin requirements of another security-based swap dealer;
(ii) The account is carried by a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act or a registered U.S. clearing organization or depository or, if the collateral to be held in the account consists of foreign securities or currencies, a supervised foreign bank, clearing organization, or depository that customarily maintains custody of such foreign securities or currencies;
(iii) The account is designated for and on behalf of the security-based swap dealer for the benefit of its security-based swap customers and the account is subject to a written acknowledgement by the bank, clearing organization, or depository provided to and retained by the security-based swap dealer that the funds and other property held in the account are being held by the bank, clearing organization, or depository for the exclusive benefit of the security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the security-based swap dealer with the bank, clearing organization, or depository; and
(iv) The account is subject to a written contract between the security-based swap dealer and the bank, clearing organization, or depository which provides that the funds and other property in the account shall at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan or other extension of credit to the security-based swap dealer by the bank, clearing organization, or depository and, shall be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank, clearing organization, or depository or any person claiming through the bank, clearing organization, or depository.
(11) The term
U.S. person
has the meaning set forth in § 240.3a71-3(a)(4).
(b)
Physical possession or control of excess securities collateral.
(1) A security-based swap dealer must promptly obtain and thereafter maintain physical possession or control of all excess securities collateral carried for the security-based swap accounts of security-based swap customers.
(2) A security-based swap dealer has control of excess securities collateral
only if the securities and money market instruments:
(i) Are represented by one or more certificates in the custody or control of a clearing corporation or other subsidiary organization of either national securities exchanges, or of a custodian bank in accordance with a system for the central handling of securities complying with the provisions of §§ 240.8c-1(g) and 240.15c2-1(g) the delivery of which certificates to the security-based swap dealer does not require the payment of money or value, and if the books or records of the security-based swap dealer identify the security-based swap customers entitled to receive specified quantities or units of the securities so held for such security-based swap customers collectively;
(ii) Are the subject of bona fide items of transfer; provided that securities and money market instruments shall be deemed not to be the subject of bona fide items of transfer if, within 40 calendar days after they have been transmitted for transfer by the security-based swap dealer to the issuer or its transfer agent, new certificates conforming to the instructions of the security-based swap dealer have not been received by the security-based swap dealer, the security-based swap dealer has not received a written statement by the issuer or its transfer agent acknowledging the transfer instructions and the possession of the securities or money market instruments, or the security-based swap dealer has not obtained a revalidation of a window ticket from a transfer agent with respect to the certificate delivered for transfer;
(iii) Are in the custody or control of a bank as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act, the delivery of which securities or money market instruments to the security-based swap dealer does not require the payment of money or value and the bank having acknowledged in writing that the securities and money market instruments in its custody or control are not subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien or claim of any kind in favor of a bank or any person claiming through the bank;
(iv)(A) Are held in or are in transit between offices of the security-based swap dealer; or (B) Are held by a corporate subsidiary if the security-based swap dealer owns and exercises a majority of the voting rights of all of the voting securities of such subsidiary, assumes or guarantees all of the subsidiary's obligations and liabilities, operates the subsidiary as a branch office of the security-based swap dealer, and assumes full responsibility for compliance by the subsidiary and all of its associated persons with the provisions of the Federal securities laws as well as for all of the other acts of the subsidiary and such associated persons; or
(v) Are held in such other locations as the Commission shall upon application from a security-based swap dealer find and designate to be adequate for the protection of security-based swap customer securities.
(3) Each business day the security-based swap dealer must determine from its books and records the quantity of excess securities collateral in its possession or control as of the close of the previous business day and the quantity of excess securities collateral not in its possession or control as of the previous business day. If the security-based swap dealer did not obtain possession or control of all excess securities collateral on the previous business day as required by this section and there are securities or money market instruments of the same issue and class in any of the following non-control locations:
(i) Securities or money market instruments subject to a lien securing an obligation of the security-based swap dealer, then the security-based swap dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the release of the securities or money market instruments from the lien and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within two business days following the date of the instructions;
(ii) Securities or money market instruments held in a qualified clearing agency account, then the security-based swap dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the release of the securities or money market instruments by the
clearing agency and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within two business days following the date of the instructions;
(iii) Securities or money market instruments held in a qualified registered security-based swap dealer account maintained by another security-based swap dealer or in a third-party custodial account, then the security-based swap dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the release of the securities or money market instruments by the other security-based swap dealer or by the third-party custodian and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within two business days following the date of the instructions;
(iv) Securities or money market instruments loaned by the security-based swap dealer, then the security-based swap dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must issue instructions for the return of the loaned securities or money market instruments and must obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments within five business days following the date of the instructions;
(v) Securities or money market instruments failed to receive for more than 30 calendar days, then the security-based swap dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments through a buy-in procedure or otherwise;
(vi) Securities or money market instruments receivable by the security-based swap dealer as a security dividend, stock split or similar distribution for more than 45 calendar days, then the security-based swap dealer, not later than the next business day on which the determination is made, must take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of the securities or money market instruments through a buy-in procedure or otherwise; or
(vii) Securities or money market instruments included on the security-based swap dealer's books or records that allocate to a short position of the security-based swap dealer or a short position for another person, for more than 30 calendar days, then the security-based swap dealer must, not later than the business day following the day on which the determination is made, take prompt steps to obtain physical possession or control of such securities or money market instruments.
(c)
Deposit requirement for special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers.
(1) A security-based swap dealer must maintain a special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers that is separate from any other bank account of the security-based swap dealer. The security-based swap dealer must at all times maintain in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers, through deposits into the account, cash and/or qualified securities in amounts computed in accordance with the formula set forth in § 240.18a-4a.
(i) In determining the amount maintained in a special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers, the security-based swap dealer must deduct:
(A) The percentage of the value of a general obligation of a State or a political subdivision of a State specified in § 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi);
(B) The aggregate value of general obligations of a State or a political subdivision of a State to the extent the amount of the obligations of a single issuer (after applying the deduction in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section) exceeds two percent of the amount required to be maintained in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers;
(C) The aggregate value of all general obligations of States or political subdivisions of States to the extent the amount of the obligations (after applying the deduction in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section) exceeds 10 percent of the amount required to be maintained in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers;
(D) The amount of cash deposited with a single non-affiliated bank to the
extent the amount exceeds 15 percent of the equity capital of the bank as reported by the bank in its most recent Call Report or any successor form the bank is required to file by its appropriate federal banking agency (as defined by section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)); and
(E) The total amount of cash deposited with an affiliated bank.
(ii)
Exception.
A security-based swap dealer for which there is a prudential regulator need not take the deduction specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section if it maintains the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers itself rather than at an affiliated or non-affiliated bank.
(2) A security-based swap dealer must not accept or use credits identified in the items of the formula set forth in § 240.18a-4a except for the specified purposes indicated under items comprising Total Debits under the formula, and, to the extent Total Credits exceed Total Debits, at least the net amount thereof must be maintained in the Special Reserve Account pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3)(i) The computations necessary to determine the amount required to be maintained in the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers must be made weekly as of the close of the last business day of the week and any deposit required to be made into the account must be made no later than one hour after the opening of banking business on the second following business day. The security-based swap dealer may make a withdrawal from the special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers only if the amount remaining in the account after the withdrawal is equal to or exceeds the amount required to be maintained in the account pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) Computations in addition to the computations required pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section may be made as of the close of any business day, and deposits so computed must be made no later than one hour after the open of banking business on the second following business day.
(4) A security-based swap dealer must promptly deposit into a special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers cash and/or qualified securities of the security-based swap dealer if the amount of cash and/or qualified securities in one or more special reserve accounts for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers falls below the amount required to be maintained pursuant to this section.
(d)
Requirements for non-cleared security-based swaps
—(1)
Notice.
A security-based swap dealer and a major security-based swap participant must provide the notice required pursuant to section 3E(f)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(f)) in writing to a duly authorized individual prior to the execution of the first non-cleared security-based swap transaction with the counterparty occurring after the compliance date of this section.
(2)
Subordination
—(i)
Counterparty that elects to have individual segregation at an independent third-party custodian.
A security-based swap dealer must obtain an agreement from a counterparty whose funds or other property to meet a margin requirement of the security-based swap dealer are held at a third-party custodian in which the counterparty agrees to subordinate its claims against the security-based swap dealer for the funds or other property held at the third-party custodian to the claims of security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer but only to the extent that funds or other property provided by the counterparty to the third-party custodian are not treated as
customer property
as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 741 in a liquidation of the security-based swap dealer.
(ii)
Counterparty that elects to have no segregation.
A security-based swap dealer must obtain an agreement from a counterparty that affirmatively chooses not to require segregation of funds or other property pursuant to section 3E(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(f)) in which the counterparty agrees to subordinate all of its claims against the security-based swap dealer to the
claims of security-based swap customers of the security-based swap dealer.
(e)
Segregation and disclosure requirements for foreign security-based swap dealers and foreign major security-based swap participants
—(1)
Segregation requirements for foreign security-based swap dealers
—(i)
Foreign bank.
Section 3E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5) and this section thereunder apply to a foreign security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10) that is a foreign bank, foreign savings bank, foreign cooperative bank, foreign savings and loan association, foreign building and loan association, or foreign credit union:
(A) With respect to a security-based swap customer that is a U.S. person, and
(B) With respect to a security-based swap customer that is not a U.S. person if the foreign security-based swap dealer holds funds or other property arising out of a transaction had by such person with a branch or agency (as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978) in the United States of such foreign security-based swap dealer.
(ii)
Not a foreign bank.
Section 3E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5) and this section thereunder apply to a foreign security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10) that is not a foreign bank, foreign savings bank, foreign cooperative bank, foreign savings and loan association, foreign building and loan association, or foreign credit union:
(A)
Cleared security-based swaps.
With respect to all cleared security-based swap transactions, if such foreign security-based swap dealer has received or acquired or holds funds or other property for at least one security-based swap customer that is a U.S. person with respect to a cleared security-based swap transaction with such U.S. person, and
(B)
Non-cleared security-based swaps.
With respect to funds or other property such foreign security-based swap dealer has received or acquired or holds for a security-based swap customer that is a U.S. person with respect to a non-cleared security-based swap transaction with such U.S. person.
(2)
Segregation requirements for foreign major security-based swap participants.
Section 3E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5) and this section thereunder apply to a foreign major security-based swap participant registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10), with respect to a counterparty that is a U.S. person.
(3)
Disclosure requirements for foreign security-based swap dealers.
A foreign security-based swap dealer registered under section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10) must disclose in writing to a security-based swap customer that is a U.S. person, prior to receiving, acquiring, or holding funds or other property for such security-based swap customer with respect to a security-based swap transaction, the potential treatment of the funds or other property segregated by such foreign security-based swap dealer pursuant to section 3E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5), and the rules and regulations thereunder, in insolvency proceedings under U.S. bankruptcy law and any applicable foreign insolvency laws. Such disclosure must include whether the foreign security-based swap dealer is subject to the segregation requirement set forth in section 3E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5), and the rules and regulations thereunder, with respect to the funds or other property received, acquired, or held for the security-based swap customer that will receive the disclosure, whether the foreign security-based swap dealer could be subject to the stockbroker liquidation provisions in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, whether the segregated funds or other property could be afforded customer property treatment under U.S. bankruptcy law, and any other relevant considerations that may affect the treatment of the funds or other property segregated under section 3E of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5), and the rules and regulations thereunder, in insolvency proceedings of the foreign security-based swap dealer.
(f)
Exemption.
The requirements of this section do not apply if the following conditions are met:
(1) The security-based swap dealer does not:
(i) Effect transactions in cleared security-based swaps for or on behalf of another person;
(ii) Have any open transactions in cleared security-based swaps executed for or on behalf of another person; and
(iii) Hold or control any money, securities, or other property to margin, guarantee, or secure a cleared security-based swap transaction executed for or on behalf of another person (including money, securities, or other property accruing to another person as a result of a cleared security-based swap transaction);
(2) The security-based swap dealer provides the notice required pursuant to section 3E(f)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(f)(1)(A)) in writing to a duly authorized individual prior to the execution of the first non-cleared security-based swap transaction with the counterparty occurring after the compliance date of this section; and
(3) The security-based swap dealer discloses in writing to a counterparty before engaging in the first non-cleared security-based swap transaction with the counterparty that any margin collateral received and held by the security-based swap dealer will not be subject to a segregation requirement and how a claim of a counterparty for the collateral would be treated in a bankruptcy or other formal liquidation proceeding of the security-based swap dealer.
[84 FR 44071, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-4a
Exhibit A—Formula for determination of security-based swap customer reserve requirements under § 240.18a-4.
Credits
Debits
1. Free credit balances and other credit balances in the accounts carried for security-based swap customers (See Note A)
$______
2. Monies borrowed collateralized by securities in accounts carried for security-based swap customers (See Note B)
$______
3. Security-based swap customers' securities failed to receive (See Note C)
$______
4. Credit balances in firm accounts which are attributable to principal sales to security-based swap customers
$______
5. Market value of stock dividends, stock splits and similar distributions receivable outstanding over 30 calendar days
$______
6. Market value of short security count differences over 30 calendar days old
$______
7. Market value of short securities and credits (not to be offset by longs or by debits) in all suspense accounts over 30 calendar days
$______
8. Market value of securities which are in transfer in excess of 40 calendar days and have not been confirmed to be in transfer by the transfer agent or the issuer during the 40 days
$______
9. Securities borrowed to effectuate short sales by security-based swap customers and securities borrowed to make delivery on security-based swap customers' securities failed to deliver
$______
10. Failed to deliver of security-based swap customers' securities not older than 30 calendar days
$______
11. Margin required and on deposit with the Options Clearing Corporation for all option contracts written or purchased in accounts carried for security-based swap customers (See Note D)
$______
12. Margin related to security futures products written, purchased or sold in accounts carried for security-based swap customers required and on deposit in a qualified clearing agency account at a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) (See Note E)
$______
13. Margin related to cleared security-based swap transactions in accounts carried for security-based swap customers required and on deposit in a qualified clearing agency account at a clearing agency registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1)
$______
14. Margin related to non-cleared security-based swap transactions in accounts carried for security-based swap customers required and held in a qualified registered security-based swap dealer account at another security-based swap dealer or at a third-party custodial account
$______
Total Credits
$______
Total Debits
$______
Excess of Credits over Debits
$______
Note A. Item 1 must include all outstanding drafts payable to security-based swap customers which have been applied against free credit balances or other credit balances and must also include checks drawn in excess of bank balances per the records of the security-based swap dealer.
Note B. Item 2 shall include the amount of options-related or security futures product-related Letters of Credit obtained by a member of a registered clearing agency or a derivatives clearing organization which are collateralized by security-based swap customers' securities, to the extent of the member's margin requirement at the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization.
Note C. Item 3 must include in addition to security-based swap customers' securities failed to receive the amount by which the market value of securities failed to receive and outstanding more than thirty (30) calendar days exceeds their contract value.
Note D. Item 11 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with Options Clearing Corporation to the extent such margin is represented by cash, proprietary qualified securities, and letters of credit collateralized by security-based swap customers' securities.
Note E. (a) Item 12 must include the amount of margin required and on deposit with a clearing agency registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) or a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) for security-based swap customer accounts to the extent that the margin is represented by cash, proprietary qualified securities, and letters of credit collateralized by security-based swap customers' securities.
(b) Item 12 will apply only if the security-based swap dealer has the margin related to security futures products on deposit with:
(1) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that:
(i) Maintains security deposits from clearing members in connection with regulated options or futures transactions and assessment power over member firms that equal a combined total of at least $2 billion, at least $500 million of which must be in the form of security deposits. For purposes of this Note E the term “security deposits” refers to a general fund, other than margin deposits or their equivalent, that consists of cash or securities held by a registered clearing agency or derivative clearing organization;
(ii) Maintains at least $3 billion in margin deposits; or
(iii) Does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(ii) of this Note E, if the Commission has determined, upon a written request for exemption by or for the benefit of the security-based swap dealer, that the security-based swap dealer may utilize such a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization. The Commission may, in its sole discretion, grant such an exemption subject to such conditions as are appropriate under the circumstances, if the Commission determines that such conditional or unconditional exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors; and
(2) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that, if it holds funds or securities deposited as margin for security futures products in a bank, as defined in section 3(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), obtains and preserves written notification from the bank at which it holds such funds and securities or at which such funds and securities are held on its behalf. The written notification will state that all funds and/or securities deposited with the bank as margin (including security-based swap customer security futures products margin), or held by the bank and pledged to such registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing agency as margin, are being held by the bank for the exclusive benefit of clearing members of the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization (subject to the interest of such registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization therein), and are being kept separate from any other accounts maintained by the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with the bank. The written notification also will provide that such funds and/or securities will at no time be used directly or indirectly as security for a loan to the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization by the bank, and will be subject to no right, charge, security interest, lien, or claim of any kind in favor of the bank or any person claiming through the bank. This provision, however, will not prohibit a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization from pledging security-based swap customer funds or securities as collateral to a bank for any purpose that the rules of the Commission or the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization otherwise permit; and
(3) A registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization that establishes, documents, and maintains:
(i) Safeguards in the handling, transfer, and delivery of cash and securities;
(ii) Fidelity bond coverage for its employees and agents who handle security-based swap customer funds or securities. In the case of agents of a registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization, the agent may provide the fidelity bond coverage; and
(iii) Provisions for periodic examination by independent public accountants; and
(4) A derivatives clearing organization that, if it is not otherwise registered with the Commission, has provided the Commission with a written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, executed by a duly authorized person at the derivatives clearing organization, to the effect that, with respect to the clearance and settlement of the security-based swap customer security futures products of the security-based swap dealer, the derivatives clearing organization will permit the Commission to examine the books and records of the derivatives clearing organization for compliance with the requirements set forth in § 240.15c3-3a, Note E. (b)(1) through (3).
(c) Item 12 will apply only if a security-based swap dealer determines, at least annually, that the registered clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization with which the security-based swap dealer has on deposit margin related to security futures products meets the conditions of this Note E.
[84 FR 44075, Aug. 22, 2019]
§ 240.18a-5
Records to be made by certain security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
This section applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is not also a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act. Section 240.17a-3 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: A member of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of a member of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a) This paragraph (a) applies only to security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants registered under section 15F of the Act for which there is no prudential regulator. Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant subject to this paragraph (a) must make and keep current the following books and records:
(1) Blotters (or other records of original entry) containing an itemized daily record of all purchases and sales of securities (including security-based swaps), all receipts and deliveries of securities (including certificate numbers), all receipts and disbursements of cash and all other debits and credits. Such records must show the account for which each such purchase or sale was effected, the name and amount of securities, the unit and aggregate purchase or sale price, if any (including the financial terms for security-based swaps), the trade date, and the name or other designation of the person from whom such securities were purchased or received or to whom sold or delivered. For security-based swaps, such records must also show, for each transaction, the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(2) Ledgers (or other records) reflecting all assets and liabilities, income and expense and capital accounts.
(3) Ledger accounts (or other records) itemizing separately as to each account for every customer or non-customer of such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, all purchases and sales, receipts and deliveries of securities (including security-based swaps) and commodities for such account and all other debits and credits to such account; and in addition, for a security-based swap, the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(4) A securities record or ledger reflecting separately for each:
(i) Security, other than a security-based swap, as of the clearance dates all “long” or “short” positions (including securities in safekeeping and securities that are the subjects of repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements) carried by such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for its account or for the account of its customers and showing the location of all securities long and the offsetting position to all securities short, including long security count differences and short security count differences classified by the date of the physical count and verification in which they were discovered, and, in all cases the name or designation of the account in which each position is carried.
(ii) Security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the unique transaction identifier, the counterparty's unique identification code, whether it is a “bought” or “sold” position in the security-based swap, whether the security-based swap is cleared or not cleared, and if cleared, identification of the clearing agency where the security-based swap is cleared.
(5) A memorandum of each purchase or sale of a security-based swap for the account of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant showing the price. The memorandum must also include the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique
transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code. An order entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority must be so designated.
(6) With respect to a security other than a security-based swap, copies of confirmations of all purchases and sales of securities. With respect to a security-based swap, copies of the security-based swap trade acknowledgment and verification made in compliance with § 240.15Fi-2.
(7) For each security-based swap account, a record of the unique identification code of such counterparty, the name and address of such counterparty, and a record of the authorization of each person the counterparty has granted authority to transact business in the security-based swap account.
(8) A record of all puts, calls, spreads, straddles and other options in which such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has any direct or indirect interest or which such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has granted or guaranteed, containing, at least, an identification of the security, and the number of units involved.
(9) A record of the proof of money balances of all ledger accounts in the form of trial balances, and a record of the computation of net capital or tangible net worth, as applicable, as of the trial balance date, pursuant to § 240.18a-1 or § 240.18a-2, respectively. Such trial balances and computations must be prepared currently at least once per month.
(10)(i) A questionnaire or application for employment executed by each “associated person” (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's behalf, which questionnaire or application must be approved in writing by an authorized representative of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and must contain at least the following information with respect to the associated person:
(A) The associated person's name, address, social security number, and the starting date of the associated person's employment or other association with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(B) The associated person's date of birth;
(C) A complete, consecutive statement of all the associated person's business connections for at least the preceding ten years, including whether the employment was part-time or full-time;
(D) A record of any denial of membership or registration, and of any disciplinary action taken, or sanction imposed, upon the associated person by any Federal or state agency, or by any national securities exchange or national securities association, including any finding that the associated person was a cause of any disciplinary action or had violated any law;
(E) A record of any denial, suspension, expulsion or revocation of membership or registration of any broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with which the associated person was associated in any capacity at the time such action was taken;
(F) A record of any permanent or temporary injunction entered against the associated person, or any broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with which the associated person was associated in any capacity at the time such injunction was entered;
(G) A record of any arrest or indictment for any felony, or any misdemeanor pertaining to securities, commodities, banking, insurance or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting or being associated with a broker or dealer, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, investment company, investment adviser, futures sponsor, bank, or savings and loan association), fraud, false statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property or bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, and the disposition of the foregoing; and
(H) A record of any other name or names by which the associated person
has been known or which the associated person has used.
(ii) A record listing every associated person of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant which shows, for each associated person, every office of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant where the associated person regularly conducts the business of handling funds or securities or effecting any transactions in, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any security, for the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and the Central Registration Depository number, if any, and every internal identification number or code assigned to that person by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section:
(A) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is not required to make and keep current a questionnaire or application for employment executed by an associated person if the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is excluded from the prohibition in section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)(6)) with respect to such associated person; and
(B) A questionnaire or application for employment executed by an associated person who is not a U.S. person (as that term is defined in § 240.3a71-3(a)(4)(i)(A)) need not include the information described in paragraphs (a)(10)(i)(A) through (H) of this section, unless the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required to obtain such information under applicable law in the jurisdiction in which the associated person is employed or located or obtains such information in conducting a background check that is customary for such firms in that jurisdiction and the creation or maintenance of records reflecting that information, would not result in a violation of applicable law in the jurisdiction in which the associated person is employed or located;
provided, however,
the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must comply with section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)(6)).
(11) [Reserved]
(12) A record of the daily calculation of the current exposure and, if applicable, the initial margin amount for each account of a counterparty required under § 240.18a-3(c).
(13) A record of compliance with possession or control requirements under § 240.18a-4(b).
(14) A record of the reserve computation required under § 240.18a-4(c).
(15) A record of each security-based swap transaction that is not verified under § 240.15Fi-2 within five business days of execution that includes, at a minimum, the unique transaction identifier and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(16) A record documenting that the security-based swap dealer has complied with the business conduct standards as required under § 240.15Fh-6.
(17) A record documenting that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has complied with the business conduct standards as required under §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-5 and 240.15Fk-1.
(18)(i) A record of each security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3 or otherwise, including the dates of the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, the number of portfolio reconciliation discrepancies, the number of security-based swap valuation disputes (including the time-to-resolution of each valuation dispute and the age of outstanding valuation disputes, categorized by transaction and counterparty), and the name of the third-party entity performing the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, if any.
(ii) A copy of each notification required to be provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3(c).
(iii) A record of each bilateral offset and each bilateral portfolio compression exercise or multilateral portfolio compression exercise in which it participates, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-4 or otherwise, including the dates of the offset or compression, the security-based swaps included in the offset or compression, the identity of the counterparties participating in
the offset or compression, the results of the compression, and the name of the third-party entity performing the offset or compression, if any.
(b) This paragraph (b) applies only to security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants registered under section 15F of the Act for which there is a prudential regulator. Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant subject to this paragraph (b) must make and keep current the following books and records:
(1) For security-based swaps and any other positions related to the firm's business as such, blotters (or other records of original entry) containing an itemized daily record of all purchases and sales of securities (including security-based swaps), all receipts and deliveries of securities (including certificate numbers), all receipts and disbursements of cash and all other debits and credits. Such records must show, the account for which each such purchase and sale was effected, the name and amount of securities, the unit and aggregate purchase or sale price (if any, including the financial terms for security-based swaps), the trade date, and the name or other designation of the person from whom such securities were purchased or received or to whom sold or delivered. For security-based swaps, such records must also show, for each transaction, the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(2) Ledger accounts (or other records) itemizing separately as to each account for every security-based swap customer or non-customer of such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, all purchases, sales, receipts and deliveries of securities (including security-based swaps) and commodities for such account and all other debits and credits to such account; and in addition, for a security-based swap, the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(3) For security-based swaps and any securities positions related to the firm's business as a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant, a securities record or ledger reflecting separately for each:
(i) Security, other than a security-based swap, as of the clearance dates all “long” or “short” positions (including securities in safekeeping and securities that are the subjects of repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements) carried by such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for its account or for the account of its customers and showing the location of all securities long and the offsetting position to all securities short, including long security count differences and short security count differences classified by the date of the physical count and verification in which they were discovered, and in all cases the name or designation of the account in which each position is carried.
(ii) Security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the unique transaction identifier, the counterparty's unique identification code, whether it is a “bought” or “sold” position in the security-based swap, whether the security-based swap is cleared or not cleared, and if cleared, identification of the clearing agency where the security-based swap is cleared.
(4) A memorandum of each brokerage order, and of any other instruction, given or received for the purchase or sale of a security-based swap, whether executed or unexecuted. The memorandum must show the terms and conditions of the order or instructions and of any modification or cancellation thereof; the account for which entered; the time the order was received; the time of entry; the price at which executed; the identity of each associated person, if any, responsible for the account; the identity of any other person
who entered or accepted the order on behalf of the customer, or, if a customer entered the order on an electronic system, a notation of that entry; and, to the extent feasible, the time of execution or cancellation. The memorandum also must include the type of the security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code. An order entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, or associated person thereof, must be so designated. The term
instruction
must include instructions between partners and employees of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. The term
time of entry
means the time when the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant transmits the order or instruction for execution.
(5) A memorandum of each purchase or sale of a security-based swap for the account of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant showing the price. The memorandum must also include the type of security-based swap, the reference security, index, or obligor, the date and time of execution, the effective date, the scheduled termination date, the notional amount(s) and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed, the unique transaction identifier, and the counterparty's unique identification code. An order entered pursuant to the exercise of discretionary authority must be so designated.
(6) With respect to a security other than a security-based swap, copies of confirmations of all purchases and sales of securities related to the business of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. With respect to a security-based swap, copies of the security-based swap trade acknowledgment and verification made in compliance with § 240.15Fi-2.
(7) For each security-based swap account, a record of the counterparty's unique identification code, the name and address of such counterparty, and a record of the authorization of each person the counterparty has granted authority to transact business in the security-based swap account.
(8)(i) A questionnaire or application for employment executed by each “associated person” (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on the security-based swap dealer's or major security-based swap participant's behalf, which questionnaire or application must be approved in writing by an authorized representative of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and must contain at least the following information with respect to the associated person:
(A) The associated person's name, address, social security number, and the starting date of the associated person's employment or other association with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant;
(B) The associated person's date of birth;
(C) A complete, consecutive statement of all the associated person's business connections for at least the preceding ten years, including whether the employment was part-time or full-time;
(D) A record of any denial of membership or registration, and of any disciplinary action taken, or sanction imposed, upon the associated person by any Federal or state agency, or by any national securities exchange or national securities association, including any finding that the associated person was a cause of any disciplinary action or had violated any law;
(E) A record of any denial, suspension, expulsion or revocation of membership or registration of any broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with which the associated person was associated in any capacity at the time such action was taken;
(F) A record of any permanent or temporary injunction entered against
the associated person, or any broker, dealer, security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with which the associated person was associated in any capacity at the time such injunction was entered;
(G) A record of any arrest or indictment for any felony, or any misdemeanor pertaining to securities, commodities, banking, insurance or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting or being associated with a broker or dealer, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, investment company, investment adviser, futures sponsor, bank, or savings and loan association), fraud, false statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property or bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, and the disposition of the foregoing; and
(H) A record of any other name or names by which the associated person has been known or which the associated person has used.
(ii) A record listing every associated person of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant which shows, for each associated person, every office of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant where the associated person regularly conducts the business of handling funds or securities or effecting any transactions in, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any security, for the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and every internal identification number or code assigned to that person by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section;
(A) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is not required to make and keep current a questionnaire or application for employment executed by an associated person if the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is excluded from the prohibition in section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)(6)) with respect to such associated person; and
(B) A questionnaire or application for employment executed by an associated person who is not a U.S. person (as that term is defined in § 240.3a71-3(a)(4)(i)(A)) need not include the information described in paragraphs (b)(8)(i)(A) through (H) of this section, unless the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required to obtain such information under applicable law in the jurisdiction in which the associated person is employed or located or obtains such information in conducting a background check that is customary for such firms in that jurisdiction and the creation or maintenance of records reflecting that information would not result in a violation of applicable law in the jurisdiction in which the associated person is employed or located;
provided, however,
the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must comply with Section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)(6)).
(9) A record of compliance with possession or control requirements under § 240.18a-4(b).
(10) A record of the reserve computation required under § 240.18a-4(c).
(11) A record of each security-based swap transaction that is not verified under § 240.15Fi-2 within five business days of execution that includes, at a minimum, the unique transaction identifier and the counterparty's unique identification code.
(12) A record documenting that the security-based swap dealer has complied with the business conduct standards as required under § 240.15Fh-6.
(13) A record documenting that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has complied with the business conduct standards as required under § 240.15Fh-1 through § 240.15Fh-5 and § 240.15Fk-1.
(14)(i) A record of each security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3 or otherwise, including the dates of the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, the number of portfolio reconciliation discrepancies, the number of security-based swap valuation disputes (including the time-to-resolution of each valuation dispute and the age of outstanding valuation disputes, categorized by transaction and counterparty), and the name of the
third-party entity performing the security-based swap portfolio reconciliation, if any.
(ii) A copy of each notification required to be provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15Fi-3(c).
(iii) A record of each bilateral offset and each bilateral portfolio compression exercise or multilateral portfolio compression exercise in which it participates, whether conducted pursuant to § 240.15Fi-4 or otherwise, including the dates of the offset or compression, the security-based swaps included in the offset or compression, the identity of the counterparties participating in the offset or compression, the results of the compression, and the name of the third-party entity performing the offset or compression, if any.
(c) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may comply with the recordkeeping requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title applicable to swap dealers and major swap participants in lieu of complying with paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) or paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, solely with respect to required information regarding security-based swap transactions and positions if:
(1) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant pursuant to section 15F of the Act;
(2) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is registered as a swap dealer or major swap participant pursuant to section 4s of the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title;
(3) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is subject to 17 CFR 23.201, 23.202, 23.402, and 23.501 with respect to its swap-related books and records;
(4) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant preserves all of the data elements necessary to create the records required by paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) or paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, as they pertain to security-based swap and swap transactions and positions;
(5) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant upon request furnishes promptly to representatives of the Commission the records required by paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (4) or paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, as well as the records required by 17 CFR 23.201, 23.202, 23.402, and 23.501 as they pertain to security-based swap and swap transactions and positions in the format applicable to that category of record as set forth in this section; and
(6) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant provides notice of its intent to utilize this paragraph (c) by notifying in writing the Commission, both at the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC and at the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the registrant has its principal place of business.
(d)(1) The term
associated person
means for purposes of this section a
person associated with a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
as that term is defined in section 3(a)(70) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(70)).
(2) The term
associated person,
as to an entity supervised by a prudential regulator, includes only those persons whose activities relate to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
[84 FR 68656, Dec. 16, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 6353, 6416, Feb. 4, 2020]
§ 240.18a-6
Records to be preserved by certain security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
This section applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is not also a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act. Section 240.17a-4 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: A member
of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of a member of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a)(1) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator must preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, all records required to be made pursuant to § 240.18a-5(a)(1) through (4).
(2) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant for which there is a prudential regulator must preserve for a period not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, all records required to be made pursuant to § 240.18a-5(b)(1) through (3).
(b)(1) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator must preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place:
(i) All records required to be made pursuant to § 240.18a-5(a)(5) through (9) and (12) through (18).
(ii) All check books, bank statements, cancelled checks, and cash reconciliations.
(iii) All bills receivable or payable (or copies thereof), paid or unpaid, relating to the business of such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, as such.
(iv) Originals of all communications received and copies of all communications sent (and any approvals thereof) by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant (including inter-office memoranda and communications) relating to its business as such. As used in this paragraph (b)(1)(iv), the term “communications” includes sales scripts and recordings of telephone calls required to be maintained pursuant to section 15F(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10(g)(1)).
(v) All trial balances and computations of net capital or tangible net worth requirements (and working papers in connection therewith), as applicable, financial statements, branch office reconciliations, and internal audit working papers, relating to the business of such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant as such.
(vi) All guarantees of security-based swap accounts and all powers of attorney and other evidence of the granting of any discretionary authority given in respect of any security-based swap account, and copies of resolutions empowering an agent to act on behalf of a corporation.
(vii) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant relating to its business as such, including agreements with respect to any account. Written agreements with respect to a security-based swap customer or non-customer, including governing documents or any document establishing the terms and conditions of the customer's or non-customer's security-based swaps must be maintained with the customer's or non-customer's account records.
(viii) Records which contain the following information in support of amounts included in the report prepared as of the audit date on Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) and in annual financial statements required by § 240.18a-7(d):
(A) Money balance and position, long or short, including description, quantity, price, and valuation of each security, including contractual commitments, in security-based swap customers' accounts, in fully secured accounts, partly secured accounts, unsecured accounts, and in securities accounts payable to security-based swap customers;
(B) Money balance and position, long or short, including description, quantity, price, and valuation of each security, including contractual commitments, in security-based swap non-customers' accounts, in fully secured accounts, partly secured accounts, unsecured accounts, and in security-based swap accounts payable to non-security-based swap customers;
(C) Position, long or short, including description, quantity, price, and valuation of each security, including contractual commitments, included in the Computation of Net Capital as commitments, securities owned, securities owned not readily marketable, and other investments owned not readily marketable;
(D) Description of futures commodity contracts or swaps, contract value on trade date, market value, gain or loss, and liquidating equity or deficit in customers' and non-customers' accounts;
(E) Description of futures commodity contracts or swaps, contract value on trade date, market value, gain or loss and liquidating equity or deficit in trading and investment accounts;
(F) Description, money balance, quantity, price, and valuation of each spot commodity and swap position or commitments in customers' and non-customers' accounts;
(G) Description, money balance, quantity, price, and valuation of each spot commodity and swap position or commitments in trading and investment accounts;
(H) Number of shares, description of security, exercise price, cost, and market value of put and call options, including short out of the money options having no market or exercise value, showing listed and unlisted put and call options separately;
(I) Quantity, price, and valuation of each security underlying the haircut for undue concentration made in the Computation of Net Capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1;
(J) Description, quantity, price, and valuation of each security and commodity position or contractual commitment, long or short, in each joint account in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has an interest, including each participant's interest and margin deposit;
(K) Description, settlement date, contract amount, quantity, market price, and valuation for each aged failed to deliver requiring a charge in the Computation of Net Capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1;
(L) Detail relating to information for possession or control requirements under § 240.18a-4 and reported on Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter);
(M) Detail of all items, not otherwise substantiated, which are charged or credited in the Computation of Net Capital pursuant to §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-2, such as cash margin deficiencies, deductions related to securities values and undue concentration, aged securities differences, and insurance claims receivable;
(N) Detail relating to the calculation of the risk margin amount pursuant to § 240.18a-1(c)(6); and
(O) Other schedules which are specifically prescribed by the Commission as necessary to support information reported as required by § 240.18a-7.
(ix) The records required to be made pursuant to § 240.15c3-4 and the results of the periodic reviews conducted pursuant to § 240.15c3-4(d).
(x) The records required to be made pursuant to § 240.18a-1(e)(2)(iii)(F)(
1
) and (
2
).
(xi) A copy of information required to be reported under §§ 242.901 through 242.909 of this chapter (Regulation SBSR).
(xii) Copies of documents, communications, disclosures, and notices related to business conduct standards as required under §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-6 and 240.15Fk-1.
(xiii) Copies of documents used to make a reasonable determination with respect to special entities, including information relating to the financial status, the tax status, and the investment or financing objectives of the special entity as required under sections 15F(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A)).
(2) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant for which there is a prudential regulator must preserve for a period of
not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place:
(i) All records required to be made pursuant to § 240.18a-5(b)(4) through (7) and (9) through (14).
(ii) Originals of all communications received and copies of all communications sent (and any approvals thereof) by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant (including inter-office memoranda and communications) relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. As used in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii), the term “communications” includes sales scripts and recordings of telephone calls required to be maintained pursuant to section 15F(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10(g)(1)).
(iii) All guarantees of security-based swap accounts and all powers of attorney and other evidence of the granting of any discretionary authority given in respect of any security-based swap account, and copies of resolutions empowering an agent to act on behalf of a corporation.
(iv) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant relating to its business as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, including agreements with respect to any account. Written agreements with respect to a security-based swap customer or non-customer, including governing documents or any document establishing the terms and conditions of the customer's or non-customer's security-based swaps, must be maintained with the customer's or non-customer's account records.
(v) Detail relating to information for possession or control requirements under § 240.18a-4 and reported on Part IIC of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) that is in support of amounts included in the report prepared as of the audit date on Part IIC of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) and in the registrant's annual reports required by § 240.18a-7(c).
(vi) A copy of information required to be reported under Regulation SBSR (§§ 242.901 through 242.909 of this chapter).
(vii) Copies of documents, communications, disclosures, and notices related to business conduct standards as required under §§ 240.15Fh-1 through 240.15Fh-6 and 240.15Fk-1.
(viii) Copies of documents used to make a reasonable determination with respect to special entities, including information relating to the financial status, the tax status, and the investment or financing objectives of the special entity as required under sections 15F(h)(4)(C) and (5)(A) of the Act.
(c) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant subject to this section must preserve during the life of the enterprise and of any successor enterprise all partnership articles or, in the case of a corporation, all articles of incorporation or charter, minute books, and stock certificate books (or, in the case of any other form of legal entity, all records such as articles of organization or formation and minute books used for a purpose similar to those records required for corporations or partnerships), all Forms SBSE (§ 249.1600 of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-C (§ 249.1600c of this chapter), all Forms SBSE-W (§ 249.1601 of this chapter), all amendments to these forms, and all licenses or other documentation showing the registration of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with any securities regulatory authority or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(d) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant subject to this section must maintain and preserve in an easily accessible place:
(1) All records required under § 240.18a-5(a)(10) or (b)(8) until at least three years after the associated person's employment and any other connection with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has terminated.
(2)(i) For security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants for which there is not a prudential regulator, each report which a securities regulatory authority or the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission has requested or required the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to make and furnish to it pursuant to an order or settlement, and each securities regulatory authority or Commodity Futures Trading Commission examination report until three years after the date of the report.
(ii) For security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants for which there is a prudential regulator, each report related to security-based swap activities which a securities regulatory authority, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or a prudential regulator has requested or required the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to make and furnish to it pursuant to an order or settlement, and each securities regulatory authority, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or prudential regulator examination report until three years after the date of the report.
(3)(i) For security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants for which there is not a prudential regulator, each compliance, supervisory, and procedures manual, including any updates, modifications, and revisions to the manual, describing the policies and practices of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with respect to compliance with applicable laws and rules, and supervision of the activities of each natural person associated with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant until three years after the termination of the use of the manual.
(ii) For security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants for which there is a prudential regulator, each compliance, supervisory, and procedures manual, including any updates, modifications, and revisions to the manual, describing the policies and practices of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant with respect to compliance with applicable laws and rules relating to security-based swap activities, and supervision of the activities of each natural person associated with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant until three years after the termination of the use of the manual.
(4) The written policies and procedures required pursuant to §§ 240.15Fi-3, 240.15Fi-4, and 240.15Fi-5 until three years after termination of the use of the policies and procedures.
(5)(i) Each written agreement with counterparties on the terms of portfolio reconciliation with those counterparties as required to be created under § 240.15Fi-3(a)(1) and (b)(1) until three years after the termination of the agreement and all transactions governed thereby.
(ii) Security-based swap trading relationship documentation with counterparties required to be created under § 240.15Fi-5 until three years after the termination of such documentation and all transactions governed thereby.
(iii) A record of the results of each audit required to be performed pursuant to § 240.15Fi-5(c) until three years after the conclusion of the audit.
(e) Subject to the conditions set forth in this paragraph (e), the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.18a-5 and this section may be immediately produced or reproduced by means of an electronic recordkeeping system and be maintained and preserved for the required time in that form.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (e):
(i) The term
electronic recordkeeping system
means a system that preserves records in a digital format in a manner that permits the records to be viewed and downloaded;
(ii) The term
designated executive officer
means a member of senior management of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who has access to and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on the electronic recordkeeping system either directly or through a
designated specialist
who reports directly or indirectly to the designated executive officer;
(iii) The term
designated officer
means an employee of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who reports directly or indirectly to the designated executive officer and who has access to and the ability to provide records maintained
and preserved on the electronic recordkeeping system either directly or through a
designated specialist
who reports directly or indirectly to the designated officer;
(iv) The term
designated specialist
means an employee of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who has access to, and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on, the electronic recordkeeping system; and
(v) The term
designated third party
means a person that is not affiliated with the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who has access to and the ability to provide records maintained and preserved on the electronic recordkeeping system.
(2) An electronic recordkeeping system of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant without a prudential regulator must:
(i)(A) Preserve a record for the duration of its applicable retention period in a manner that maintains a complete time-stamped audit trail that includes:
(
1
) All modifications to and deletions of the record or any part thereof;
(
2
) The date and time of actions that create, modify, or delete the record;
(
3
) If applicable, the identity of the individual creating, modifying, or deleting the record; and
(
4
) Any other information needed to maintain an audit trail of the record in a way that maintains security, signatures, and data to ensure the authenticity and reliability of the record and will permit re-creation of the original record if it is modified or deleted; or
(B) Preserve the records exclusively in a non-rewriteable, non-erasable format;
(ii) Verify automatically the completeness and accuracy of the processes for storing and retaining records electronically;
(iii) If applicable, serialize the original and duplicate units of the storage media, and time-date the required period of retention for the information placed on such electronic storage media;
(iv) Have the capacity to readily download and transfer copies of a record and its audit trail (if applicable) in both a human readable format and in a reasonably usable electronic format and to readily download and transfer the information needed to locate the electronic record, as required by the staffs of the Commission, or any State regulator having jurisdiction over the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant; and
(v)(A) Include a backup electronic recordkeeping system that meets the other requirements of this paragraph (e) and that retains the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.18a-5 and in accordance with this section in a manner that will serve as a redundant set of records if the original electronic recordkeeping system is temporarily or permanently inaccessible; or
(B) Have other redundancy capabilities that are designed to ensure access to the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.18a-5 and this section.
(3) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant using an electronic recordkeeping system must:
(i) At all times have available, for examination by the staffs of the Commission or any State regulator having jurisdiction over the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, facilities for immediately producing the records preserved by means of the electronic recordkeeping system and for producing copies of those records.
(ii) Be ready at all times to provide, and immediately provide, any record stored by means of the electronic recordkeeping system that the staffs of the Commission or any State regulator having jurisdiction over the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant may request.
(iii) For a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant operating pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must have in place an audit system providing for accountability regarding inputting of records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to § 240.18a-5 and this section to the electronic recordkeeping system and inputting of any
changes made to every original and duplicate record maintained and preserved thereby.
(A) At all times a security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant must be able to have the results of such audit system available for examination by the staff of the Commission.
(B) The audit results must be preserved for the time required for the audited records.
(iv) Organize, maintain, keep current, and provide promptly upon request by the staffs of the Commission or any State regulator having jurisdiction over the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant all information necessary to access and locate records preserved by means of the electronic recordkeeping system.
(v)(A) Have at all times filed with the Commission the following undertakings with respect to such records signed by either a designated executive officer or designated third party (hereinafter, the “undersigned”):
The undersigned hereby undertakes to furnish promptly to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) and its designees or representatives, or any State securities regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant], upon reasonable request, such information as is deemed necessary by the staff of the Commission or any State regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant], to download copies of a record and its audit trail (if applicable) preserved by means of an electronic recordkeeping system of [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant] into both a human readable format and a reasonably usable electronic format in the event of a failure on the part of [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant] to download a requested record or its audit trail (if applicable).
Furthermore, the undersigned hereby undertakes to take reasonable steps to provide access to the information preserved by means of an electronic recordkeeping system of [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant], including, as appropriate, downloading any record required to be maintained and preserved by [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant] pursuant to §§ 240.18a-5 and 240.18a-6 in a format acceptable to the staff of the Commission or any State regulator having jurisdiction over [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant]. Specifically, the undersigned will take reasonable steps to, in the event of a failure on the part of [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant] to download the record into a human readable format or a reasonably usable electronic format and after reasonable notice to [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant], download the record into a human readable format or a reasonably usable electronic format at the request of the staff of the Commission or any State regulator having jurisdiction [Name of the Security-Based Swap Dealer or Major Security-Based Swap Participant].
(B) A designated executive officer who signs the undertaking required pursuant to paragraph (e)(3)(v)(A) of this section may:
(
1
) Appoint in writing up to two designated officers who will take the steps necessary to fulfill the obligations of the designated executive officer set forth in the undertakings in the event the designated executive officer is unable to fulfill those obligations; and
(
2
) Appoint in writing up to three designated specialists.
(C) The appointment of, or reliance on, a designated officer or designated specialist does not relieve the designated executive officer of the obligations set forth in the undertaking.
(f)(1)(i) If the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to the provisions of § 240.18a-5 and this section are prepared or maintained by a third party, including by a third party that owns and operates the servers or other storage devices on which the records are preserved or maintained, on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, the third party must file with the Commission a written undertaking in a form acceptable to the Commission, signed by a duly authorized person, to the effect that such records are the property of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and will be surrendered promptly on request of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and including the following provision:
With respect to any books and records maintained or preserved on behalf of [SBSD or MSBSP], the undersigned hereby undertakes to permit examination of such books and records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and to promptly furnish to said Commission or its designee true, correct, complete, and current hard copies of any or all or any part of such books and records.
(ii)(A) If the records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to the provisions of § 240.18a-5 and this section are maintained and preserved by means of an electronic recordkeeping system as defined in paragraph (e) of this section utilizing servers or other storage devices that are owned or operated by a third party (including an affiliate) and the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has
independent access
to the records as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the third party may file with the Commission the following undertaking signed by a duly authorized person in lieu of the undertaking required under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section:
The undersigned hereby acknowledges that the records of [SBSD or MSBSP] are the property of [SBSD or MSBSP] and [SBSD or MSBSP] has represented: one, that it is subject to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission governing the maintenance and preservation of certain records, two, that it has independent access to the records maintained by [name of third party], and, three, that it consents to [name of third party] fulfilling the obligations set forth in this undertaking. The undersigned undertakes that [name of third party] will facilitate within its ability, and not impede or prevent, the examination, access, download, or transfer of the records by a representative or designee of the Securities and Exchange Commission as permitted under the law.
(B) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant utilizing servers or other storage devices that are owned or operated by a third party has independent access to records with respect to such third party if it can regularly access the records without the need of any intervention of the third party and through such access:
(
1
) Permit examination of the records at any time or from time to time during business hours by representatives or designees of the Commission; and
(
2
) Promptly furnish to the Commission or its designee a true, correct, complete and current hard copy of any or all or any part of such records.
(2) Agreement with a third party will not relieve such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant from the responsibility to prepare and maintain records as specified in this section or in § 240.18a-5.
(g) Every security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant subject to this section must furnish promptly to a representative of the Commission legible, true, complete, and current copies of those records of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that are required to be preserved under this section, or any other records of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant subject to examination or required to be made or maintained pursuant to section 15F of the Act that are requested by a representative of the Commission. The security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant must furnish a record and its audit trail (if applicable) preserved on an electronic recordkeeping system pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section in a reasonably usable electronic format, if requested by a representative of the Commission.
(h) When used in this section:
(1) The term
securities regulatory authority
means the Commission, any self-regulatory organization, or any securities commission (or any agency or office performing like functions) of the States.
(2) The term
associated person
has the meaning set forth in § 240.18a-5(d).
[84 FR 68659, Dec. 16, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 6416, Feb. 4, 2020; 85 FR 33021, June 1, 2020; 87 FR 66450, Nov. 3, 2022]
§ 240.18a-7
Reports to be made by certain security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
This section applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is not also a broker or dealer, other than
an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also an OTC derivatives dealer registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act. Section 240.17a-5 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities: Except as provided above, a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a broker or dealer, other than an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act; and a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a major-security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act.
(a)
Filing of reports.
(1) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator must file with the Commission or its designee Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) within 17 business days after the end of each month.
(2) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for which there is a prudential regulator must file with the Commission or its designee Part IIC of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(3) Security-based swap dealers that have been authorized by the Commission to compute net capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1(d), must file the following additional reports with the Commission:
(i) For each product for which the security-based swap dealer calculates a deduction for market risk other than in accordance with § 240.18a-1(e)(1)(i) and (iii), the product category and the amount of the deduction for market risk within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(ii) A graph reflecting, for each business line, the daily intra-month value at risk within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(iii) The aggregate value at risk for the security-based swap dealer within 17 business days after end of the month;
(iv) For each product for which the security-based swap dealer uses scenario analysis, the product category and the deduction for market risk within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(v) Credit risk information on security-based swap, mixed swap and swap exposures, within 17 business days after the end of the month, including:
(A) Overall current exposure;
(B) Current exposure (including commitments) listed by counterparty for the 15 largest exposures;
(C) The ten largest commitments listed by counterparty;
(D) The broker's or dealer's maximum potential exposure listed by counterparty for the 15 largest exposures;
(E) The broker's or dealer's aggregate maximum potential exposure;
(F) A summary report reflecting the broker's or dealer's current and maximum potential exposures by credit rating category; and
(G) A summary report reflecting the broker's or dealer's current exposure for each of the top ten countries to which the broker or dealer is exposed (by residence of the main operating group of the counterparty);
(vi) Regular risk reports supplied to the security-based swap dealer's senior management in the format described in the application, within 17 business days after the end of the month;
(vii) [Reserved]
(viii) A report identifying the number of business days for which the actual daily net trading loss exceeded the corresponding daily VaR within 17 business days after the end of each calendar quarter; and
(ix) The results of backtesting of all internal models used to compute allowable capital, including VaR and credit risk models, indicating the number of backtesting exceptions within 17 business days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(b)
Customer disclosures.
(1) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator must make publicly available on its website within 10 business days after the date the firm is required to file with the Commission the annual reports pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section:
(i) A Statement of Financial Condition with appropriate notes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles which must be audited;
(ii) A statement of the amount of the security-based swap dealer's net capital and its required net capital, computed in accordance with § 240.18a-1. Such statement must include summary financial statements of subsidiaries consolidated pursuant to § 240.18a-1c (appendix C to § 240.18a-1 (Rule 18a-1)), where material, and the effect thereof on the net capital and required net capital of the security-based swap dealer; and
(iii) If, in connection with the most recent annual reports required under paragraph (c) of this section, the report of the independent public accountant required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section covering the report of the security-based swap dealer required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section identifies one or more material weaknesses, a copy of the report.
(2) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator must make publicly available on its website unaudited statements as of the date that is 6 months after the date of the most recent audited statements filed with the Commission under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. These reports must be made publicly available within 30 calendar days of the date of the statements.
(3) The information that is made publicly available pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section must also be made available in writing, upon request, to any person that has a security-based swap account. The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must maintain a toll-free telephone number to receive such requests.
(c)
Annual reports
—(1)
Reports required to be filed.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act for which there is no prudential regulator must file annually, as applicable:
(A) A financial report as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(B)(
1
) If the security-based swap dealer did not claim it was exempt from § 240.18a-4 throughout the most recent fiscal year, a compliance report as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section executed by the person who makes the oath or affirmation under paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or
(
2
) If the security-based swap dealer did claim it was exempt from § 240.18a-4 throughout the most recent fiscal year, an exemption report as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section executed by the person who makes the oath or affirmation under paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(C) A report prepared by an independent public accountant, under the engagement provisions in paragraph (e) of this section, covering each report required to be filed under paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable.
(ii) The reports required to be filed under this paragraph (c) must be as of the same fiscal year end each year, unless a change is approved in writing by the Commission. The original request for a change must be filed at the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC. A copy of the written approval must be sent to the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has its principal place of business.
(iii) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant succeeding to and continuing the business of another security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant need not file reports under this paragraph (c) as of a date in the fiscal year in which the succession occurs if the predecessor security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has filed the reports
in compliance with this paragraph (c) as of a date in such fiscal year.
(2)
Financial report.
The financial report must contain:
(i)(A) A Statement of Financial Condition, a Statement of Income, a Statement of Cash Flows, a Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole Proprietor's Equity, and Statement of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of General Creditors. The statements must be prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and must be in a format that is consistent with the statements contained in Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter).
(B) If there is other comprehensive income in the period(s) presented, the financial report must contain a Statement of Comprehensive Income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of this chapter) in place of a Statement of Income.
(ii) Supporting schedules that include, from Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), a Computation of Net Capital under § 240.18a-1, a Computation of Tangible Net Worth under § 240.18a-2, a Computation for Determination of Security-Based Swap Customer Reserve Requirements under § 240.18a-4a (Exhibit A of § 240.18a-4), and Information Relating to the Possession or Control Requirements for Security-Based Swap Customers under § 240.18a-4, as applicable.
(iii) If any of the Computation of Net Capital under § 240.18a-1, the Computation of Tangible Net Worth under § 240.18a-2, or the Computation for Determination of Security-Based Swap Customer Reserve Requirements under Exhibit A of § 240.18a-4 in the financial report is materially different from the corresponding computation in the most recent Part II of Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter) filed by the registrant pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a reconciliation, including appropriate explanations, between the computation in the financial report and the computation in the most recent Part II of Form X-17A-5 filed by the registrant. If no material differences exist, a statement so indicating must be included in the financial report.
(3)
Compliance report.
(i) The compliance report must contain:
(A) Statements as to whether:
(
1
) The security-based swap dealer has established and maintained Internal Control Over Compliance as that term is defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section;
(
2
) The Internal Control Over Compliance of the security-based swap dealer was effective during the most recent fiscal year;
(
3
) The Internal Control Over Compliance of the security-based swap dealer was effective as of the end of the most recent fiscal year;
(
4
) The security-based swap dealer was in compliance with §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-4(c) as of the end of the most recent fiscal year; and
(
5
) The information the security-based swap dealer used to state whether it was in compliance with §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-4(c) was derived from the books and records of the security-based swap dealer.
(B) If applicable, a description of each identified material weakness in the Internal Control Over Compliance of the security-based swap dealer during the most recent fiscal year.
(C) If applicable, a description of an instance of non-compliance with § 240.18a-1 or § 240.18a-4(c) as of the end of the most recent fiscal year.
(ii) The term
Internal Control Over Compliance
means internal controls that have the objective of providing the security-based swap dealer with reasonable assurance that non-compliance with § 240.18a-1, § 240.18a-4(c), § 240.18a-9, or § 240.17a-13, as applicable, will be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
(iii) The security-based swap dealer is not permitted to conclude that its Internal Control Over Compliance was effective during the most recent fiscal year if there were one or more material weaknesses in its Internal Control Over Compliance during the most recent fiscal year. The security-based swap dealer is not permitted to conclude that its Internal Control Over Compliance was effective as of the end of the most recent fiscal year if there were one or more material weaknesses in its internal control as of the end of the most recent fiscal year. A
material weakness
is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in Internal Control Over
Compliance such that there is a reasonable possibility that non-compliance with § 240.18a-1 or § 240.18a-4(c) will not be prevented, or detected on a timely basis or that non-compliance to a material extent with § 240.18a-4, except for paragraph (c), or § 240.18a-9 or § 240.17a-13, as applicable, will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A deficiency in Internal Control Over Compliance exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow the management or employees of the security-based swap dealer in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect on a timely basis non-compliance with § 240.18a-1, § 240.18a-4, § 240.18a-9, or § 240.17a-13, as applicable.
(4)
Exemption report.
The exemption report must contain the following statements made to the best knowledge and belief of the security-based swap dealer:
(i) A statement that the security-based swap dealer met the exemption provisions in § 240.18a-4(f) throughout the most recent fiscal year without exception or that it met the exemption provisions in § 240.18a-4(f) throughout the most recent fiscal year except as described under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section; and
(ii) If applicable, a statement that identifies each exception during the most recent fiscal year in meeting the exemption provisions in § 240.18a-4(f) and that briefly describes the nature of each exception and the approximate date(s) on which the exception existed.
(5)
Timing of filing.
The annual reports must be filed not more than sixty (60) calendar days after the end of the fiscal year of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(6)
Filing with the Commission.
The annual reports must be filed with the Commission electronically on EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in 17 CFR 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T), and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of 17 CFR part 232 (Regulation S-T). The annual reports must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T).
(d)
Nature and form of reports.
The annual reports filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section must be prepared and filed in accordance with the following requirements:
(1)(i)
Oath or affirmation.
The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must attach to the annual reports an oath or affirmation that, to the best knowledge and belief of the person making the oath or affirmation:
(A) The financial report is true and correct; and
(B) Neither the registrant, nor any partner, officer, director, or equivalent person, as the case may be, has any proprietary interest in any account classified solely as that of a customer.
(ii) The oath or affirmation must be made before a person duly authorized to administer such oaths or affirmations. If the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is a sole proprietorship, the oath or affirmation must be made by the proprietor; if a partnership, by a general partner; if a corporation, by a duly authorized officer; or if a limited liability company or limited liability partnership, by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, manager, managing member, or those members vested with management authority for the limited liability company or limited liability partnership.
(iii) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must keep the original oath or affirmation for a period of not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place in accordance with the requirements of § 240.18a-6 of this chapter (Rule 18a-6 under the Exchange Act).
(2)
Confidentiality.
The annual reports filed under paragraph (c) of this section may be filed as:
(i) One public document; or
(ii) Two documents:
(A) A document consisting of the Statement of Financial Condition, the notes to the Statement of Financial Condition, and the report of the independent public accountant covering the Statement of Financial Condition, which is not confidential; and
(B) A document containing the balance of the annual reports for which
confidential treatment may be requested and which will be deemed confidential for the purposes of section 24(b) of the Act. However, the annual reports, including the confidential portions, will be available for official use by any official or employee of the U.S. or any State, and by any other person if the Commission authorizes disclosure of the annual reports to that person. Nothing contained in paragraph (d)(2) of this section may be construed to be in derogation of the rights of customers of a security-based-swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, upon request to the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, to obtain information relative to its financial condition.
(e)
Independent public accountant
—(1)
Qualifications of independent public accountant.
The independent public accountant must be qualified and independent in accordance with § 210.2-01 of this chapter.
(2)
Statement regarding independent public accountant.
(i) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that is required to file annual reports under paragraph (c) of this section must file no later than December 10 of each year (or 30 days after effective date of its registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant if earlier) a statement as prescribed in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which its principal place of business is located. The statement must be dated no later than December 1 (or 20 calendar days after the effective date of its registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, if earlier). If the engagement of an independent public accountant is of a continuing nature, providing for successive engagements, no further filing is required. If the engagement is for a single year, or if the most recent engagement has been terminated or amended, a new statement must be filed by the required date.
(ii) The statement must be headed “Statement regarding independent public accountant under Rule 18a-7(e)(2)” and must contain the following information and representations:
(A) Name, address, telephone number and registration number of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the independent public accountant.
(C) The date of the fiscal year of the annual reports of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant covered by the engagement.
(D) Whether the engagement is for a single year or is of a continuing nature.
(E) A representation that the independent public accountant has undertaken the items enumerated in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(3)
Replacement of accountant.
A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must file a notice that must be received by the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which its principal place of business is located not more than 15 business days after:
(i) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has notified the independent public accountant that provided the reports the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant filed under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section for the most recent fiscal year that the independent public accountant's services will not be used in future engagements; or
(ii) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has notified an independent public accountant that was engaged to provide the reports required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section that the engagement has been terminated; or
(iii) An independent public accountant has notified the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that the independent public accountant would not continue under an engagement to provide the reports required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section; or
(iv) A new independent public accountant has been engaged to provide
the reports required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section without any notice of termination having been given to or by the previously engaged independent public accountant.
(v) The notice must include:
(A) The date of notification of the termination of the engagement or of the engagement of the new independent public accountant, as applicable; and
(B) The details of any issues arising during the 24 months (or the period of the engagement, if less than 24 months) preceding the termination or new engagement relating to any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, auditing scope or procedure, or compliance with applicable rules of the Commission, which issues, if not resolved to the satisfaction of the former independent public accountant, would have caused the independent public accountant to make reference to them in the report of the independent public accountant. The issues required to be reported include both those resolved to the former independent public accountant's satisfaction and those not resolved to the former accountant's satisfaction. Issues contemplated by this section are those which occur at the decision-making level—that is, between principal financial officers of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and personnel of the accounting firm responsible for rendering its report. The notice must also state whether the accountant's report filed under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section for any of the past two fiscal years contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion or was qualified as to uncertainties, audit scope, or accounting principles, and must describe the nature of each such adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion, or qualification. The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must also request the former independent public accountant to furnish the security-based swap dealer or .major security-based swap participant with a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether the independent public accountant agrees with the statements contained in the notice of the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant and, if not, stating the respects in which the independent public accountant does not agree. The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must file three copies of the notice and the accountant's letter, one copy of which must be signed by the sole proprietor, or a general partner or a duly authorized corporate, limited liability company, or limited liability partnership officer or member, as appropriate, and by the independent public accountant, respectively.
(f)
Engagement of the independent public accountant.
The independent public accountant engaged by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to provide the reports required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section must, as part of the engagement, undertake the following, as applicable:
(1) To prepare an independent public accountant's report based on an examination of the financial report required to be filed by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States or the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; and
(2)(i) To prepare an independent public accountant's report based on an examination of the statements required under paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A)(
2
) through (
5
) of this section in the compliance report required to be filed by the security-based swap dealer under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States or the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; or
(ii) To prepare an independent public accountant's report based on a review of the statements required under paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (ii) of this section in the exemption report required to be filed by the security-based swap dealer under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States or the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(g)
Notification of non-compliance or material weakness.
If, during the course
of preparing the independent public accountant's reports required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, the independent public accountant determines that:
(1) A security-based swap dealer is not in compliance with § 240.18a-1, § 240.18a-4, § 240.18a-9, or § 240.17a-13, as applicable, or the independent public accountant determines that any material weaknesses (as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section) exist, the independent public accountant must immediately notify the chief financial officer of the security-based swap dealer of the nature of the non-compliance or material weakness. If the notice from the accountant concerns an instance of non-compliance that would require a security-based swap dealer to provide a notification under § 240.18a-8, or if the notice concerns a material weakness, the security-based swap dealer must provide a notification in accordance with § 240.18a-8, as applicable, and provide a copy of the notification to the independent public accountant. If the independent public accountant does not receive the notification within one business day, or if the independent public accountant does not agree with the statements in the notification, then the independent public accountant must notify the Commission within one business day. The report from the accountant must, if the security-based swap dealer failed to file a notification, describe any instances of non-compliance that required a notification under § 240.18a-8 or any material weakness. If the security-based swap dealer filed a notification, the report from the accountant must detail the aspects of the notification of the security-based swap dealer with which the accountant does not agree; or
(2) A major security-based swap participant is not in compliance with § 240.18a-2, the independent public accountant must immediately notify the chief financial officer of the major security-based swap participant of the nature of the non-compliance. If the notice from the accountant concerns an instance of non-compliance that would require a major security-based swap participant to provide a notification under § 240.18a-8, the major security-based swap participant must provide a notification in accordance with § 240.18a-8 and provide a copy of the notification to the independent public accountant. If the independent public accountant does not receive the notification within one business day, or if the independent public accountant does not agree with the statements in the notification, then the independent public accountant must notify the Commission within one business day. The report from the accountant must, if the major security-based swap participant failed to file a notification, describe any instances of non-compliance that required a notification under § 240.18a-8. If the major security-based swap participant filed a notification, the report from the accountant must detail the aspects of the notification of the major security-based swap participant with which the accountant does not agree.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
g

# ):
The attention of the security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant, and the independent public accountant is called to the fact that under § 240.18a-8(a), among other things, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant whose net capital or tangible net worth, as applicable, declines below the minimum required pursuant to § 240.18a-1 or § 240.18a-2, as applicable, must give notice of such deficiency that same day in accordance with § 240.18a-8(h) and the notice must specify the security-based swap dealer's net capital requirement and its current amount of net capital, or the extent of the major security-based swap participant's failure to maintain positive tangible net worth, as applicable.
(h)
Reports of the independent public accountant required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section
—(1)
Technical requirements.
The independent public accountant's reports must:
(i) Be dated;
(ii) Be signed;
(iii) Indicate the city and state where issued; and
(iv) Identify without detailed enumeration the items covered by the reports.
(2)
Representations.
The independent public accountant's reports must:
(i) State whether the examinations were made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States or the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; and
(ii) Identify any examination procedures deemed necessary by the independent public accountant under the circumstances of the particular case which have been omitted and the reason for their omission.
(iii) Nothing in this section may be construed to imply authority for the omission of any procedure that independent public accountants would ordinarily employ in the course of an examination for the purpose of expressing the opinions required under this section.
(3)
Opinion to be expressed.
The independent public accountant's reports must state clearly:
(i) The opinion of the independent public accountant with respect to the financial report required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section and the accounting principles and practices reflected in that report;
(ii) The opinion of the independent public accountant with respect to the financial report required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, as to the consistency of the application of the accounting principles, or as to any changes in those principles which have a material effect on the financial statements; and
(iii)(A) The opinion of the independent public accountant with respect to the statements required under paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A)(
2
) through (
5
) of this section in the compliance report required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section; or
(B) The conclusion of the independent public accountant with respect to the statements required under paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section in the exemption report required under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) of this section.
(4)
Exceptions.
Any matters to which the independent public accountant takes exception must be clearly identified, the exceptions must be specifically and clearly stated, and, to the extent practicable, the effect of each such exception on any related items contained in the annual reports required under paragraph (c) of this section must be given.
(i)
Notification of change of fiscal year.
(1) In the event any security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator finds it necessary to change its fiscal year, it must file, with the Commission's principal office in Washington, DC and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has its principal place of business, a notice of such change.
(2) Such notice must contain a detailed explanation of the reasons for the change. Any change in the filing period for the annual reports must be approved by the Commission.
(j)
Signatures.
Any signature required by this section may be a manual or electronic signature. The signing process for an electronic signature must, at a minimum:
(1) Require the signatory to present a physical, logical, or digital credential that authenticates the signatory's individual identity;
(2) Reasonably provide for non-repudiation of the signature;
(3) Provide that the signature be attached, affixed, or otherwise logically associated with the signature page or document being signed; and
(4) Include a timestamp to record the date and time of the signature.
[84 FR 68662, Dec. 16, 2019, as amended at 90 FR 7370, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.18a-8
Notification provisions for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
This section applies to the following types of entities: A security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that is not also a broker or dealer, other than an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
); a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also an OTC derivatives dealer; and a major security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is not also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act. Section 240.17a-11 (rather than this section) applies to the following types of entities:
Except as provided above, a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a broker or dealer, other than an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act; and a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act that is also a major-security-based swap participant registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act.
(a)(1)(i) Every security-based swap dealer for which there is no prudential regulator whose net capital declines below the minimum amount required pursuant to § 240.18a-1 must give notice of such deficiency that same day in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The notice must specify the security-based swap dealer's net capital requirement and its current amount of net capital. If a security-based swap dealer is informed by the Commission that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.18a-1 and the security-based swap dealer has not given notice of the capital deficiency under this section, the security-based swap dealer, even if it does not agree that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.18a-1, must give notice of the claimed deficiency, which notice may specify the security-based swap dealer's reasons for its disagreement.
(ii) Every security-based swap dealer for which there is no prudential regulator whose tentative net capital declines below the minimum amount required pursuant to § 240.18a-1 must give notice of such deficiency that same day in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The notice must specify the security-based swap dealer's tentative net capital requirement and its current amount of tentative net capital. If a security-based swap is informed by the Commission that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.18a-1 and the security-based swap dealer has not given notice of the capital deficiency under this section, the security-based swap dealer, even if it does not agree that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.18a-1, must give notice of the claimed deficiency, which notice may specify the security-based swap dealer's reasons for its disagreement.
(2) Every major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator who fails to maintain a positive tangible net worth pursuant to § 240.18a-2 must give notice of such deficiency that same day in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The notice must specify the extent to which the firm has failed to maintain positive tangible net worth. If a major security-based swap participant is informed by the Commission that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.18a-2 and the major security-based swap participant has not given notice of the capital deficiency under this section, the major security-based swap participant, even if it does not agree that it is, or has been, in violation of § 240.18a-2, must give notice of the claimed deficiency, which notice may specify the major security-based swap participant's reasons for its disagreement.
(b) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant for which there is no prudential regulator must send notice promptly (but within 24 hours) after the occurrence of the events specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) or paragraph (b)(4) of this section, as applicable, in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section:
(1) If a computation made by a security-based swap dealer pursuant to § 240.18a-1 shows that its total net capital is less than 120 percent of the security-based swap dealer's required minimum net capital;
(2) If a computation made by a security-based swap dealer authorized by the Commission to compute net capital pursuant to § 240.18a-1(d) shows that its total tentative net capital is less than 120 percent of the security-based swap dealer's required minimum tentative net capital;
(3) If the level of tangible net worth of a major security-based swap participant falls below $20 million; and
(4) The occurrence of the fourth and each subsequent backtesting exception under § 240.18a-1(d)(9) during any 250 business day measurement period.
(c) Every security-based swap dealer that files a notice of adjustment of its
reported capital category with the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation must give notice of this fact that same day by transmitting a copy notice of the adjustment of reported capital category in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(d) Every security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant that fails to make and keep current the books and records required by § 240.18a-5 or § 240.17a-3, as applicable, must give notice of this fact that same day in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, specifying the books and records which have not been made or which are not current. The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must also transmit a report in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section within 48 hours of the notice stating what the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has done or is doing to correct the situation.
(e) Whenever any security-based swap dealer for which there is no prudential regulator discovers, or is notified by an independent public accountant under § 240.18a-7(g), of the existence of any material weakness, as defined in § 240.18a-7(c)(3)(iii), the security-based swap dealer must:
(1) Give notice, in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, of the material weakness within 24 hours of the discovery or notification of the material weakness; and
(2) Transmit a report in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, within 48 hours of the notice stating what the security-based swap dealer has done or is doing to correct the situation.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) If a security-based swap dealer fails to make in its special reserve account for the exclusive benefit of security-based swap customers a deposit, as required by § 240.18a-4(c), the security-based swap dealer must give immediate notice in writing in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(h) Every notice or report required to be given or transmitted by this section must be given or transmitted to the principal office of the Commission in Washington, DC and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has its principal place of business, or to an email address provided on the Commission's website, and to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) if the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is registered as a futures commission merchant with the CFTC. The report required by paragraph (d) or (e)(2) of this section may be transmitted by overnight delivery.
[84 FR 68667, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 240.18a-9
Quarterly security counts to be made by certain security-based swap dealers.
This section applies to a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that does not have a prudential regulator and that is not also a broker or dealer, including an
OTC derivatives dealer
as that term is defined in § 240.3b-12, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
). Section 240.17a-13 (rather than this section) applies to the following entities (if not exempt under the provisions of § 240.17a-13): A member of a national securities exchange who transacts a business in securities directly with others than members of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer who transacts a business in securities through the medium of a member of a national securities exchange; a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; a security-based swap dealer registered pursuant to section 15F of the Act that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act; and a major security-based swap participant that is also a broker or dealer, including an OTC derivatives dealer, registered pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
(a) Any security-based swap dealer that is subject to the provisions of this section must at least once in each calendar quarter-year:
(1) Physically examine and count all securities held including securities
that are the subjects of repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements;
(2) Account for all securities in transfer, in transit, pledged, loaned, borrowed, deposited, failed to receive, failed to deliver, subject to repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements or otherwise subject to its control or direction but not in its physical possession by examination and comparison of the supporting detailed records with the appropriate ledger control accounts;
(3) Verify all securities in transfer, in transit, pledged, loaned, borrowed, deposited, failed to receive, failed to deliver, subject to repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements or otherwise subject to its control or direction but not in its physical possession, where such securities have been in said status for longer than thirty days;
(4) Compare the results of the count and verification with its records; and
(5) Record on the books and records of the security-based swap dealer all unresolved differences setting forth the security involved and date of comparison in a security count difference account no later than 7 business days after the date of each required quarterly security examination, count, and verification in accordance with the requirements provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
Provided, however,
that no examination, count, verification, and comparison for the purpose of this section is within 2 months of or more than 4 months following a prior examination, count, verification, and comparison made under this paragraph (a)(5).
(b) The examination, count, verification, and comparison may be made either as of a date certain or on a cyclical basis covering the entire list of securities. In either case the recordation must be effected within 7 business days subsequent to the examination, count, verification, and comparison of a particular security. In the event that an examination, count, verification, and comparison is made on a cyclical basis, it may not extend over more than 1 calendar quarter-year, and no security may be examined, counted, verified, or compared for the purpose of this section within 2 months of or more than 4 months after a prior examination, count, verification, and comparison.
(c) The examination, count, verification, and comparison must be made or supervised by persons whose regular duties do not require them to have direct responsibility for the proper care and protection of the securities or the making or preservation of the subject records.
[84 FR 68668, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 240.18a-10
Alternative compliance mechanism for security-based swap dealers that are registered as swap dealers and have limited security-based swap activities.
(a) A security-based swap dealer may comply with capital, margin, segregation, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title applicable to swap dealers in lieu of complying with §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-3 through 240.18a-9 if:
(1) The security-based swap dealer is registered as such pursuant to section 15F(b) of the Act and the rules thereunder;
(2) The security-based swap dealer is registered as a swap dealer pursuant to section 4s of the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules thereunder;
(3) The security-based swap dealer is not registered as a broker or dealer pursuant to section 15 of the Act or the rules thereunder;
(4) The security-based swap dealer meets the conditions to be exempt from § 240.18a-4 specified in paragraph (f) of that section; and
(5) As of the most recently ended quarter of the fiscal year of the security-based swap dealer, the aggregate gross notional amount of the outstanding security-based swap positions of the security-based swap dealer did not exceed the lesser of the maximum fixed-dollar amount specified in paragraph (f) of this section or 10 percent of the combined aggregate gross notional amount of the security-based swap and swap positions of the security-based swap dealer.
(b) A security-based swap dealer operating under this section must:
(1) Comply with capital, margin, segregation, recordkeeping, and reporting
requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title applicable to swap dealers and treat security-based swaps or collateral related to security-based swaps as swaps or collateral related to swaps, as applicable, pursuant to those requirements to the extent the requirements do not specifically address security-based swaps or collateral related to security-based swaps;
(2) Disclose in writing to each counterparty to a security-based swap before entering into the first transaction with the counterparty after the date the security-based swap dealer begins operating under this section that the security-based swap dealer is operating under this section and is therefore complying with the applicable capital, margin, segregation, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules promulgated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission thereunder in lieu of complying with the capital, margin, segregation, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements promulgated by the Commission in §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-3 through 240.18a-9;
(3) Immediately notify the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in writing if the security-based swap dealer fails to meet a condition specified in paragraph (a) of this section;
(4) Simultaneously notify the Commission if the security-based swap dealer is required to send a notice concerning its capital, books and records, liquidity, margin operations, or segregation operations to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission by transmitting to the Commission a copy of the notice being sent to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and
(5) Furnish promptly to a representative of the Commission legible, true, complete, and current copies of those records of the security-based swap dealer that are required to be preserved under the Commodity Exchange Act and chapter I of this title applicable to swap dealers, or any other records of the security-based swap dealer subject to examination pursuant to section 15F of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-10) that are requested by a representative of the Commission.
(c) A security-based swap dealer that fails to meet one or more of the conditions specified in paragraph (a) of this section must begin complying with §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-3 through 240.18a-9 no later than:
(1) Two months after the end of the month in which the security-based swap dealer fails to meet a condition in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) A longer period of time as granted by the Commission by order subject to any conditions imposed by the Commission.
(d)(1) A person applying to register as a security-based swap dealer that intends to operate under this section beginning on the date of its registration must provide prior written notice to the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of its intent to operate under the conditions of this section.
(2) A security-based swap dealer that elects to operate under this section beginning on a date after the date of its registration as a security-based swap dealer must:
(i) Provide prior written notice to the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of its intent to operate under the conditions of this section; and
(ii) Continue to comply with §§ 240.18a-1 and 240.18a-3 through 240.18a-9 for at least:
(A) Two months after the end of the month in which the security-based swap dealer provides the notice; or
(B) A shorter period of time as granted by the Commission by order subject to any conditions imposed by the Commission.
(e) The notices required by this section must be sent by facsimile transmission to the principal office of the Commission and the regional office of the Commission for the region in which the security-based swap dealer has its principal place of business or to an email address provided on the Commission's website, and to the principal office of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in a manner consistent with the notification requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The notice must include a
brief summary of the reason for the notice and the contact information of an individual who can provide further information about the matter that is the subject of the notice.
(f)(1) The maximum fixed-dollar amount is $250 billion until the three-year anniversary of the compliance date of this section at which time the maximum fixed-dollar amount is $50 billion unless the Commission issues an order to:
(i) Maintain the maximum fixed-dollar amount at $250 billion for an additional period of time or indefinitely; or
(ii) Lower the maximum fixed-dollar amount to an amount that is less than $250 billion but greater than $50 billion.
(2) If, after considering the levels of security-based swap activity of security-based swap dealers operating under this section, the Commission determines that it may be appropriate to change the maximum fixed-dollar amount pursuant paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, the Commission will publish a notice of the potential change and subsequently will issue an order regarding any such change.
[84 FR 44076, Aug. 22, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 68668, Dec. 16, 2019]

# Suspension and Expulsion of Exchange Members
§ 240.19a3-1
[Reserved]
§ 240.19b-3
[Reserved]
§ 240.19b-4
Filings with respect to proposed rule changes by self-regulatory organizations.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1) The term
advance notice
means a notice required to be made by a designated clearing agency pursuant to Section 806(e) of the Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act (12 U.S.C. 5465(e));
(2) The term
designated clearing agency
means a clearing agency that is registered with the Commission, and for which the Commission is the Supervisory Agency (as determined in accordance with section 803(8) of the Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act (12 U.S.C. 5462(8)), that has been designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council pursuant to section 804 of the Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act (12 U.S.C. 5463) as systemically important or likely to become systemically important;
(3) The term
Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act
means Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (124 Stat. 1802, 1803, 1807, 1809, 1811, 1814, 1816, 1818, 1820, 1821; 12 U.S.C. 5461
et seq.
);
(4) The term
proposed rule change
has the meaning set forth in Section 19(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1));
(5) The term
security-based swap submission
means a submission of identifying information required to be made by a clearing agency pursuant to section 3C(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(b)(2)) for each security-based swap, or any group, category, type or class of security-based swaps, that such clearing agency plans to accept for clearing;
(6) The term
stated policy, practice, or interpretation
means:
(i) Any material aspect of the operation of the facilities of the self-regulatory organization; or
(ii) Any statement made generally available to the membership of, to all participants in, or to persons having or seeking access (including, in the case of national securities exchanges or registered securities associations, through a member) to facilities of, the self-regulatory organization (“specified persons”), or to a group or category of specified persons, that establishes or changes any standard, limit, or guideline with respect to:
(A) The rights, obligations, or privileges of specified persons or, in the case of national securities exchanges or registered securities associations, persons associated with specified persons; or
(B) The meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule.
(b)(1) Filings with respect to proposed rule changes by a self-regulatory organization, except filings with respect to proposed rules changes by self-regulatory organizations submitted pursuant to section 19(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(7)), shall be made electronically on Form 19b-4 (17 CFR 249.819).
(2) For purposes of Section 19(b) of the Act and this rule, a “business day”
is any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, Federal holiday, a day that the Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC area are closed to the public, a day on which the Commission is subject to a Federal government shutdown or a day on which the Commission's Washington, DC office is otherwise not open for regular business.
(c) A stated policy, practice, or interpretation of the self-regulatory organization shall be deemed to be a proposed rule change unless (1) it is reasonably and fairly implied by an existing rule of the self-regulatory organization or (2) it is concerned solely with the administration of the self-regulatory organization and is not a stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule of the self-regulatory organization.
(d) Regardless of whether it is made generally available, an interpretation of an existing rule of the self-regulatory organization shall be deemed to be a proposed rule change if (1) it is approved or ratified by the governing body of the self-regulatory organization and (2) it is not reasonably and fairly implied by that rule.
(e) For the purposes of this paragraph,
new derivative securities product
means any type of option, warrant, hybrid securities product or any other security, other than a single equity option or a security futures product, whose value is based, in whole or in part, upon the performance of, or interest in, an underlying instrument.
(1) The listing and trading of a new derivative securities product by a self-regulatory organization shall not be deemed a proposed rule change, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if the Commission has approved, pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)), the self-regulatory organization's trading rules, procedures and listing standards for the product class that would include the new derivative securities product and the self-regulatory organization has a surveillance program for the product class.
(2) Recordkeeping and reporting:
(i) Self-regulatory organizations shall retain at their principal place of business a file, available to Commission staff for inspection, of all relevant records and information pertaining to each new derivative securities product traded pursuant to this paragraph (e) for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, as prescribed in § 240.17a-1.
(ii) When relying on paragraph (e) of this section, a self-regulatory organization shall post the following information, using the most recent versions of the XML schema and the associated PDF renderer as published on the Commission's website for all reports required by this section, on its publicly available internet website within five business days after commencement of trading a new derivative securities product:
(A) Type of issuer of new derivative securities product;
(B) Class of new derivative securities product;
(C) Name of underlying instrument;
(D) If the underlying instrument is an index, identify whether it is broad-based or narrow-based;
(E) Ticker symbol(s) of new derivative securities product;
(F) Market(s) upon which securities composing the underlying instrument trade;
(G) Settlement methodology of new derivative securities product; and
(H) Position limits of new derivative securities product (if applicable).
(f) A proposed rule change may take effect upon filing with the Commission pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A), if properly designated by the self-regulatory organization as:
(1) Constituting a stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule;
(2) Establishing or changing a due, fee, or other charge applicable only to a member;
(3) Concerned solely with the administration of the self-regulatory organization;
(4) Effecting a change in an existing service of a registered clearing agency that either:
(i)(A) Does not adversely affect the safeguarding of securities or funds in the custody or control of the clearing
agency or for which it is responsible; and
(B) Does not significantly affect the respective rights or obligations of the clearing agency or persons using the service; or
(ii)(A) Primarily affects the clearing operations of the clearing agency with respect to products that are not securities, including futures that are not security futures, swaps that are not security-based swaps or mixed swaps, and forwards that are not security forwards; and
(B) Either
(
1
) Does not significantly affect any securities clearing operations of the clearing agency or any rights or obligations of the clearing agency with respect to securities clearing or persons using such securities-clearing service, or
(
2
) Does significantly affect any securities clearing operations of the clearing agency or the rights or obligations of the clearing agency with respect to securities clearing or persons using such securities-clearing service, but is necessary to maintain fair and orderly markets for products that are not securities, including futures that are not security futures, swaps that are not security-based swaps or mixed swaps, and forwards that are not security forwards. Proposed rule changes filed pursuant to this subparagraph II must also be filed in accordance with the procedures of Section 19(b)(1) for approval pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) and the regulations thereunder within fifteen days of being filed under Section 19(b)(3)(A).
(5) Effecting a change in an existing order-entry or trading system of a self-regulatory organization that:
(i) Does not significantly affect the protection of investors or the public interest;
(ii) Does not impose any significant burden on competition; and
(iii) Does not have the effect of limiting the access to or availability of the system; or
(6) Effecting a change that:
(i) Does not significantly affect the protection of investors or the public interest;
(ii) Does not impose any significant burden on competition; and
(iii) By its terms, does not become operative for 30 days after the date of the filing, or such shorter time as the Commission may designate if consistent with the protection of investors and the public interest; provided that the self-regulatory organization has given the Commission written notice of its intent to file the proposed rule change, along with a brief description and text of the proposed rule change, at least five business days prior to the date of filing of the proposed rule change, or such shorter time as designated by the Commission.
(g) Proceedings to determine whether a proposed rule change should be disapproved will be conducted pursuant to 17 CFR 201.700 and 201.701 (Initiation of Proceedings for SRO Proposed Rule Changes and for Proposed NMS Plans and Plan Amendments).
(h) Notice of orders issued pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act will be given by prompt publication thereof, together with a statement of written reasons therefor.
(i) Self-regulatory organizations shall retain at their principal place of business a file, available to interested persons for public inspection and copying, of all filings, notices and submissions made pursuant to this section and all correspondence and other communications reduced to writing (including comment letters) to and from such self-regulatory organization concerning any such filing, notice or submission, whether such correspondence and communications are received or prepared before or after the filing, notice or submission of the proposed rule change, advance notice or security-based swap submission, as applicable.
(j) Filings by a self-regulatory organization submitted under 17 CFR 249.819 on Form 19b-4 electronically shall contain an electronic signature. For the purposes of this section, the term
electronic signature
means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer data compilation of any letter or series of letters or characters composing a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature.
(k) If the conditions of this section and Form 19b-4 (17 CFR 249.819) are
otherwise satisfied, all filings submitted electronically on or before 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, on a business day, shall be deemed filed on that business day, and all filings submitted after 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the next business day.
(l) The self-regulatory organization shall post each proposed rule change, and any amendments thereto, on its Web site within two business days after the filing of the proposed rule change, and any amendments thereto, with the Commission. If a self-regulatory organization does not post a proposed rule change on its Web site on the same day that it filed the proposal with the Commission, then the self-regulatory organization shall inform the Commission of the date on which it posted such proposal on its Web site. Such proposed rule change and amendments shall be maintained on the self-regulatory organization's Web site until:
(1) In the case of a proposed rule change filed under section 19(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), the Commission approves or disapproves the proposed rule change or the self-regulatory organization withdraws the proposed rule change, or any amendments, or is notified that the proposed rule change is not properly filed; or
(2) In the case of a proposed rule change filed under section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)), or any amendment thereto, 60 days after the date of filing, unless the self-regulatory organization withdraws the proposed rule change or is notified that the proposed rule change is not properly filed; and
(3) In the case of proposed rule changes approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)) or noticed by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)), the self-regulatory organization updates its rule text as required by paragraph (m) of this section; and
(4) In the case of a proposed rule change, or any amendment thereto, that has been disapproved, withdrawn or not properly filed, the self-regulatory organization shall remove the proposed rule change, or any amendment, from its Web site within two business days of notification of disapproval, improper filing, or withdrawal by the SRO of the proposed rule change.
(m)(1) Each self-regulatory organization shall post and maintain a current and complete version of its rules on its Web site.
(2) A self-regulatory organization, other than a self-regulatory organization that is registered with the Commission under section 6(g) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(g)) or pursuant to section 15A(k) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-1(k)), shall update its Web site to reflect rule changes filed pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)) within two business days after it has been notified of the Commission's approval of a proposed rule change, and to reflect rule changes filed pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)) within two business days of the Commission's notice of such proposed rule change.
(3) A self-regulatory organization that is registered with the Commission under section 6(g) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(g)) or pursuant to section 15A(k) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-1(k)), shall update its Web site to reflect rule changes filed pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act by two business days after the later of:
(A) Notification that the Commission has approved a proposed rule change; and
(B)(i) The filing of a written certification with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-2(c));
(ii) Receipt of notice from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that it has determined that review of the proposed rule change is not necessary; or
(iii) Receipt of notice from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that it has approved the proposed rule change.
(4) If a rule change is not effective for a certain period, the self-regulatory organization shall clearly indicate the effective date in the relevant rule text.
(n)(1)(i) A designated clearing agency shall provide an advance notice to the Commission of any proposed change to its rules, procedures, or operations that could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by such designated clearing agency. Except as provided in paragraph (n)(1)(ii) of this section, such advance notice shall be submitted to the Commission electronically on Form 19b-4 (referenced in 17 CFR 249.819). The Commission shall, upon the filing of any advance notice, provide for prompt publication thereof.
(ii) Any designated clearing agency that files an advance notice with the Commission prior to December 10, 2013, shall file such advance notice in electronic format to a dedicated email address to be established by the Commission. The contents of an advance notice filed pursuant to this paragraph (n)(1)(ii) shall contain the information required to be included for advance notices in the General Instructions for Form 19b-4 (referenced in 17 CFR 249.819).
(2)(i) For purposes of this paragraph (n), the phrase
materially affect the nature or level of risks presented,
when used to qualify determinations on a change to rules, procedures, or operations at the designated clearing agency, means matters as to which there is a reasonable possibility that the change could affect the performance of essential clearing and settlement functions or the overall nature or level of risk presented by the designated clearing agency.
(ii) Changes to rules, procedures, or operations that could materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by a designated clearing agency may include, but are not limited to, changes that materially affect participant and product eligibility, risk management, daily or intraday settlement procedures, default procedures, system safeguards, governance or financial resources of the designated clearing agency.
(iii) Changes to rules, procedures, or operations that may not materially affect the nature or level of risks presented by a designated clearing agency include, but are not limited to:
(A) Changes to an existing procedure, control, or service that do not modify the rights or obligations of the designated clearing agency or persons using its payment, clearing, or settlement services and that do not adversely affect the safeguarding of securities, collateral, or funds in the custody or control of the designated clearing agency or for which it is responsible; or
(B) Changes concerned solely with the administration of the designated clearing agency or related to the routine, daily administration, direction, and control of employees;
(3) The designated clearing agency shall post the advance notice, and any amendments thereto, on its Web site within two business days after the filing of the advance notice, and any amendments thereto, with the Commission. Such advance notice and amendments shall be maintained on the designated clearing agency's Web site until the earlier of:
(i) The date the designated clearing agency withdraws the advance notice or is notified that the advance notice is not properly filed; or
(ii) The date the designated clearing agency posts a notice of effectiveness as required by paragraph (n)(4)(ii) of this section.
(4)(i) The designated clearing agency shall post a notice on its Web site within two business days of the date that any change to its rules, procedures, or operations referred to in an advance notice has been permitted to take effect as such date is determined in accordance with Section 806(e) of the Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act (12 U.S.C. 5465).
(ii) The designated clearing agency shall post a notice on its Web site within two business days of the effectiveness of any change to its rules, procedures, or operations referred to in an advance notice.
(5) A designated clearing agency shall provide copies of all materials submitted to the Commission relating to an advance notice with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System contemporaneously with such submission to the Commission.
(6) The publication and Web site posting requirements contained in paragraphs (n)(1), (n)(3), and (n)(4) of this
section do not apply to any information contained in an advance notice for which a designated clearing agency has requested confidential treatment following the procedures set forth in § 240.24b-2.
(o)(1) Every clearing agency that is registered with the Commission that plans to accept a security-based swap, or any group, category, type, or class of security-based swaps for clearing shall submit to the Commission a security-based swap submission and provide notice to its members of such security-based swap submission.
(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(2)(ii) of this section, a clearing agency shall submit each security-based swap submission to the Commission electronically on Form 19b-4 (referenced in 17 CFR 249.819) with the information required to be submitted for a security-based swap submission, as provided in § 240.19b-4 and Form 19b-4. Any information submitted to the Commission electronically on Form 19b-4 that is not complete or otherwise in compliance with this section and Form 19b-4 shall not be considered a security-based swap submission and the Commission shall so inform the clearing agency within twenty-one business days of the submission on Form 19b-4 (referenced in 17 CFR 249.819).
(ii) Any clearing agency that files a security-based swap submission with the Commission prior to December 10, 2013, shall file such security-based swap submission in electronic format to a dedicated email address to be established by the Commission. The contents of a security-based swap submission filed pursuant to this paragraph (o)(2)(ii) shall contain the information required to be included for security-based swap submissions in the General Instructions for Form 19b-4.
(3) A security-based swap submission submitted by a clearing agency to the Commission shall include a statement that includes, but is not limited to:
(i) How the security-based swap submission is consistent with Section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1);
(ii) Information that will assist the Commission in the quantitative and qualitative assessment of the factors specified in Section 3C of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3), including, but not limited to:
(A) The existence of significant outstanding notional exposures, trading liquidity, and adequate pricing data;
(B) The availability of a rule framework, capacity, operational expertise and resources, and credit support infrastructure to clear the contract on terms that are consistent with the material terms and trading conventions on which the contract is then traded;
(C) The effect on the mitigation of systemic risk, taking into account the size of the market for such contract and the resources of the clearing agency available to clear the contract;
(D) The effect on competition, including appropriate fees and charges applied to clearing; and
(E) The existence of reasonable legal certainty in the event of the insolvency of the relevant clearing agency or one or more of its clearing members with regard to the treatment of customer and security-based swap counterparty positions, funds, and property;
(iii) A description of how the rules of the clearing agency prescribe that all security-based swaps submitted to the clearing agency with the same terms and conditions are economically equivalent within the clearing agency and may be offset with each other within the clearing agency, as applicable to the security-based swaps described in the security-based swap submission; and
(iv) A description of how the rules of the clearing agency provide for non-discriminatory clearing of a security-based swap executed bilaterally or on or through the rules of an unaffiliated national securities exchange or security-based swap execution facility, as applicable to the security-based swaps described in the security-based swap submission.
(4) A clearing agency shall submit security-based swaps to the Commission for review by group, category, type or class of security-based swaps, to the extent reasonable and practicable to do so.
(5) A clearing agency shall post each security-based swap submission, and any amendments thereto, on its Web site within two business days after the
submission of the security-based swap submission, and any amendments thereto, with the Commission. Such security-based swap submission and amendments shall be maintained on the clearing agency's Web site until the Commission makes a determination regarding the security-based swap submission or the clearing agency withdraws the security-based swap submission, or is notified that the security-based swap submission is not properly filed.
(6) In connection with any security-based swap submission that is submitted by a clearing agency to the Commission, the clearing agency shall provide any additional information requested by the Commission as necessary to assess any of the factors it determines to be appropriate in order to make the determination of whether the clearing requirement applies.
(7) Notices of orders issued pursuant to Section 3C of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3), regarding security-based swap submissions will be given by prompt publication thereof, together with a statement of written reasons therefor.
[45 FR 73914, Nov. 7, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 66701, Dec. 28, 1994; 63 FR 70967, Dec. 22, 1998; 66 FR 43742, Aug. 20, 2001; 69 FR 60300, Oct. 8, 2004; 73 FR 16189, Mar. 27, 2008; 76 FR 4072, Jan. 24, 2011; 76 FR 20509, Apr. 13, 2011; 76 FR 41092, July 13, 2011; 77 FR 41648, July 13, 2012; 77 FR 73305, Dec. 10, 2012; 78 FR 21057, Apr. 9, 2013; 85 FR 65497, Oct. 15, 2020; 90 FR 7371, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.19b-5
Temporary exemption from the filing requirements of Section 19(b) of the Act.

# Preliminary Notes
1. The following section provides for a temporary exemption from the rule filing requirement for self-regulatory organizations that file proposed rule changes concerning the operation of a pilot trading system pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b), as amended). All other requirements under the Act that are applicable to self-regulatory organizations continue to apply.
2. The disclosures made pursuant to the provisions of this section are in addition to any other applicable disclosure requirements under the federal securities laws.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term
specialist
means any member subject to a requirement of a self-regulatory organization that such member regularly maintain a market in a particular security.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
trading system
means the rules of a self-regulatory organization that:
(1) Determine how the orders of multiple buyers and sellers are brought together; and
(2) Establish non-discretionary methods under which such orders interact with each other and under which the buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of trade.
(c) For purposes of this section, the term
pilot trading system
shall mean a trading system operated by a self-regulatory organization that is not substantially similar to any trading system or pilot trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization at any time during the preceding year, and that:
(1)(i) Has been in operation for less than two years;
(ii) Is independent of any other trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization that has been approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b));
(iii) With respect to each security traded on such pilot trading system, during at least two of the last four consecutive calendar months, has traded no more than 5 percent of the average daily trading volume of such security in the United States; and
(iv) With respect to all securities traded on such pilot trading system, during at least two of the last four consecutive calendar months, has traded no more than 20 percent of the average daily trading volume of all trading systems operated by such self-regulatory organization; or
(2)(i) Has been in operation for less than two years;
(ii) With respect to each security traded on such pilot trading system, during at least two of the last four consecutive calendar months, has traded no more than 1 percent of the average daily trading volume of such security in the United States; and
(iii) With respect to all securities traded on such pilot trading system, during at least two of the last four consecutive calendar months, has traded no more than 20 percent of the average daily trading volume of all trading systems operated by such self-regulatory organization; or
(3)(i) Has been in operation for less than two years; and
(ii)(A) Satisfied the definition of
pilot trading system
under paragraph (c)(1) of this section no more than 60 days ago, and continues to be independent of any other trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization that has been approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)); or
(B) Satisfied the definition of
pilot trading system
under paragraph (c)(2) of this section no more than 60 days ago.
(d) A pilot trading system shall be deemed
independent
of any other trading system operated by a self-regulatory organization if:
(1) Such pilot trading system trades securities other than the issues of securities that trade on any other trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization that has been approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b));
(2) Such pilot trading system does not operate during the same trading hours as any other trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization that has been approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)); or
(3) No specialist or market maker on any other trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization that has been approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)), is permitted to effect transactions on the pilot trading system in securities in which they are a specialist or market maker.
(e) A self-regulatory organization shall be exempt temporarily from the requirement under section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)), to submit on Form 19b-4, 17 CFR 249.819, proposed rule changes for establishing a pilot trading system, if the self-regulatory organization complies with the following requirements:
(1)
Form PILOT.
The self-regulatory organization:
(i) Files Part I of Form PILOT, 17 CFR 249.821, in accordance with the instructions therein, at least 20 days prior to commencing operation of the pilot trading system;
(ii) Files an amendment on Part I of Form PILOT at least 20 days prior to implementing a material change to the operation of the pilot trading system; and
(iii) Files a quarterly report on Part II of Form PILOT within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter in which the market has operated after the effective date of this section.
(2)
Fair access.
(i) The self-regulatory organization has in place written rules to ensure that all members of the self-regulatory organization have fair access to the pilot trading system, and that information regarding orders on the pilot trading system is equally available to all members of the self-regulatory organization with access to such pilot trading system.
(ii) Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, a specialist on the pilot trading system may have preferred access to information regarding orders that it represents in its capacity as specialist.
(iii) The rules established by a self-regulatory organization pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section will be considered rules governing the pilot trading system for purposes of the temporary exemption under this section.
(3)
Trading rules and procedures and listing standards.
(i) The self-regulatory organization has in place written trading rules and procedures and listing standards necessary to operate the pilot trading system.
(ii) The rules established by a self-regulatory organization pursuant to paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section will be considered rules governing the pilot trading system for purposes of the temporary exemption under this section.
(4)
Surveillance.
The self-regulatory organization establishes internal procedures for the effective surveillance of trading activity on the self-regulatory organization's pilot trading system.
(5)
Clearance and settlement.
The self-regulatory organization establishes
reasonable clearance and settlement procedures for transactions effected on the self-regulatory organizations pilot trading system.
(6)
Types of securities.
The self-regulatory organization permits to trade on the pilot trading system only securities registered under section 12 of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78
l
).
(7)
Activities of specialists.
(i) The self-regulatory organization does not permit any member to be a specialist in a security on the pilot trading system and a specialist in a security on a trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization that has been approved by the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)), or on another pilot trading system operated by such self-regulatory organization, if such securities are related securities, except that a member may be a specialist in related securities that the Commission, upon application by the self-regulatory organization, later determines is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors;
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section, a self-regulatory organization may permit a member to be a specialist in any security on a pilot trading system, if the pilot trading system is operated during trading hours different from the trading hours of the trading system in which such member is a specialist.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (e)(7) of this section, the term
related securities
means any two securities in which:
(A) The value of one security is determined, in whole or significant part, by the performance of the other security; or
(B) The value of both securities is determined, in whole or significant part, by the performance of a third security, combination of securities, index, indicator, interest rate or other common factor.
(8)
Examinations, inspections, and investigations.
The self-regulatory organization cooperates with the examination, inspection, or investigation by the Commission of transactions effected on the pilot trading system.
(9)
Recordkeeping.
The self-regulatory organization shall retain at its principal place of business and make available to Commission staff for inspection, all the rules and procedures relating to each pilot trading system operating pursuant to this section for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, as prescribed in § 240.17a-1.
(10)
Public availability of pilot trading system rules.
The self-regulatory organization makes publicly available all trading rules and procedures, including those established under paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section.
(11) Every notice or amendment filed pursuant to this paragraph (e) shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a), (15 U.S.C. 78k-1, 78q(a), 78r(a), and 78ff(a)), and any other applicable provisions of the Act. All notices or reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (e) shall be deemed to be confidential until the pilot trading system commences operation.
(f)(1) A self-regulatory organization shall request Commission approval, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), for any rule change relating to the operation of a pilot trading system by submitting Form 19b-4, 17 CFR 249.819, no later than two years after the commencement of operation of such pilot trading system, or shall cease operation of the pilot trading system.
(2) Simultaneous with a request for Commission approval pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), a self-regulatory organization may request Commission approval pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)), for any rule change relating to the operation of a pilot trading system by submitting Form 19b-4, 17 CFR 249.819, effective immediate upon filing, to continue operations of such trading system for a period not to exceed six months.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (e) of this section, rule changes with respect to pilot trading systems operated by a self-regulatory organization shall not be exempt from the rule filing requirements of section 19(b)(2) of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), if the Commission determines, after notice to the SRO and opportunity for the SRO to respond, that exemption of such rule changes is
not necessary or appropriate in the public interest or consistent with the protection of investors.
[63 FR 70920, Dec. 22, 1998]
§ 240.19b-7
Filings with respect to proposed rule changes submitted pursuant to Section 19(b)(7) of the Act.

# Preliminary Note:
A self-regulatory organization also must refer to Form 19b-7 (17 CFR 249.822) for further requirements with respect to the filing of proposed rule changes.
(a) Filings with respect to proposed rule changes by a self-regulatory organization submitted pursuant to section 19(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(7)) shall be made electronically on Form 19b-7 (17 CFR 249.822).
(b) A proposed rule change will not be deemed filed on the date it is received by the Commission unless:
(1) A completed Form 19b-7 (17 CFR 249.822) is submitted electronically; and
(2) In order to elicit meaningful comment, it is accompanied by:
(i) A clear and accurate statement of the basis and purpose of such rule change, including the impact on competition or efficiency, if any; and
(ii) A summary of any written comments (including e-mail) received by the self-regulatory organization on the proposed rule change.
(c) Self-regulatory organizations shall retain at their principle place of business a file, available to interested persons for public inspection and copying, of all filings made pursuant to this section and all correspondence and other communications reduced to writing (including comment letters) to and from such self-regulatory organization concerning such filing, whether such correspondence and communications are received or prepared before or after the filing of the proposed rule change.
(d) Filings with respect to proposed rule changes by a self-regulatory organization submitted on Form 19b-7 (17 CFR 249.822) electronically shall contain an electronic signature. For the purposes of this section, the term electronic signature means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer data compilation of any letter or series of letters or characters comprising a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature. The signatory to an electronically submitted rule filing shall manually sign a signature page or other document, in the manner prescribed by Form 19b-7, authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing. Such document shall be executed before or at the time the rule filing is electronically submitted and shall be retained by the filer in accordance with 17 CFR 240.17a-1.
(e) If the conditions of this section and Form 19b-7 (17 CFR 249.822) are otherwise satisfied, all filings submitted electronically on or before 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, on a business day, shall be deemed filed on that business day, and all filings submitted after 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the next business day.
(f) The self-regulatory organization shall post the proposed rule change, and any amendments thereto, submitted on Form 19b-7 (17 CFR 249.822), on its Web site within two business days after the filing of the proposed rule change, and any amendments thereto, with the Commission. Unless the self-regulatory organization withdraws the proposed rule change or is notified that the proposed rule change is not properly filed, such proposed rule change and amendments shall be maintained on the self-regulatory organization's Web site until 60 days after:
(1) The filing of a written certification with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-2(c));
(2) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission determines that review of the proposed rule change is not necessary; or
(3) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approves the proposed rule change; and
(4) In the case of a proposed rule change, or any amendment thereto, that has been withdrawn or not properly filed, the self-regulatory organization shall remove the proposed rule change, or any amendment, from its
Web site within two business days of notification of improper filing or withdrawal by the self-regulatory organization of the proposed rule change.
(g)(1) Each self-regulatory organization shall post and maintain a current and complete version of its rules on its Web site.
(2) The self-regulatory organization shall update its Web site to reflect rule changes filed pursuant to section 19(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(7)), by two business days after the later of:
(A) The Commission's notice of such proposed rule change; and
(B)(i) The filing of a written certification with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5c(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-2(c));
(ii) Receipt of notice from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that it has determined that review of the proposed rule change is not necessary; or
(iii) Receipt of notice from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that it has approved the proposed rule change.
(3) If a rule change is not effective for a certain period, the self-regulatory organization shall clearly indicate the effective date in the relevant rule text.
[66 FR 43743, Aug. 20, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 16189, Mar. 27, 2008]
§ 240.19c-1
Governing certain off-board agency transactions by members of national securities exchanges.
The rules of each national securities exchange shall provide as follows:
No rule, stated policy, or practice of this exchange shall prohibit or condition, or be construed to prohibit or condition or otherwise limit, directly or indirectly, the ability of any member acting as agent to effect any transaction otherwise than on this exchange with another person (except when such member also is acting as agent for such other person in such transaction), in any equity security listed on this exchange or to which unlisted trading privileges on this exchange have been extended.
(Secs. 2, 3, 6, 11, 17, 19, 23, Pub. L. 78-291, 48 Stat. 881, 882, 885, 891, 897, 898, 901, as amended by secs. 2, 3, 6, 14, 16, 18, Pub. L. 94-29, 89 Stat. 97, 104, 110, 137, 146, 155 (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78c, 78f, 78k, 78q, 78s, 78w, as amended by Pub. L. 94-29 (June 4, 1975)); sec. 7 Pub. L. 94-29, 89 Stat. 111 (15 U.S.C. 78k-1))
[43 FR 1328, Jan. 9, 1978]
§ 240.19c-3
Governing off-board trading by members of national securities exchanges.
The rules of each national securities exchange shall provide as follows:
(a) No rule, stated policy or practice of this exchange shall prohibit or condition, or be construed to prohibit, condition or otherwise limit, directly or indirectly, the ability of any member to effect any transaction otherwise than on this exchange in any reported security listed and registered on this exchange or as to which unlisted trading privileges on this exchange have been extended (other than a put option or call option issued by the Options Clearing Corporation) which is not a covered security.
(b) For purposes of this rule,
(1) The term
Act
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(2) The term
exchange
shall mean a national securities exchange registered as such with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 6 of the Act.
(3) The term
covered security
shall mean (i) Any equity security or class of equity securities which
(A) Was listed and registered on an exchange on April 26, 1979, and
(B) Remains listed and registered on at least one exchange continuously thereafter;
(ii) Any equity security or class of equity securities which
(A) Was traded on one or more exchanges on April 26, 1979, pursuant to unlisted trading privileges permitted by section 12(f)(1)(A) of the Act, and
(B) Remains traded on any such exchange pursuant to such unlisted trading privileges continuously thereafter; and
(iii) Any equity security or class of equity securities which
(A) Is issued in connection with a statutory merger, consolidation or similar plan or reorganization (including a reincorporation or change of domicile) in exchange for an equity security or class of equity securities described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this rule,
(B) Is listed and registered on an exchange after April 26, 1979, and
(C) Remains listed and registered on at least one exchange continuously thereafter.
(4) The term
reported security
shall mean any security or class of securities for which transaction reports are collected, processed and made available pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan.
(5) The term
transaction report
shall mean a report containing the price and volume associated with a completed transaction involving the purchase or sale of a security.
(6) The term
effective transaction reporting plan
shall mean any plan approved by the Commission pursuant to § 242.601 of this chapter for collecting, processing, and making available transaction reports with respect to transactions in an equity security or class of equity securities.
[45 FR 41134, June 18, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 37618, June 29, 2005]
§ 240.19c-4
Governing certain listing or authorization determinations by national securities exchanges and associations.
(a) The rules of each exchange shall provide as follows: No rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation of this exchange shall permit the listing, or the continuance of the listing, of any common stock or other equity security of a domestic issuer, if the issuer of such security issues any class of security, or takes other corporate action, with the effect of nullifying, restricting or disparately reducing the per share voting rights of holders of an outstanding class or classes of common stock of such issuer registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act.
(b) The rules of each association shall provide as follows: No rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation of this association shall permit the authorization for quotation and/or transaction reporting through an automated inter-dealer quotation system (“authorization”), or the continuance of authorization, of any common stock or other equity security of a domestic issuer, if the issuer of such security issues any class of security, or takes other corporate action, with the effect of nullifying, restricting, or disparately reducing the per share voting rights of holders of an outstanding class or classes of common stock of such issuer registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act.
(c) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following shall be presumed to have the effect of nullifying, restricting, or disparately reducing the per share voting rights of an outstanding class or classes of common stock:
(1) Corporate action to impose any restriction on the voting power of shares of the common stock of the issuer held by a beneficial or record holder based on the number of shares held by such beneficial or record holder;
(2) Corporate action to impose any restriction on the voting power of shares of the common stock of the issuer held by a beneficial or record holder based on the length of time such shares have been held by such beneficial or record holder;
(3) Any issuance of securities through an exchange offer by the issuer for shares of an outstanding class of the common stock of the issuer, in which the securities issued have voting rights greater than or less than the per share voting rights of any outstanding class of the common stock of the issuer.
(4) Any issuance of securities pursuant to a stock dividend, or any other type of distribution of stock, in which the securities issued have voting rights greater than the per share voting rights of any outstanding class of the common stock of the issuer.
(d) For the purpose of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following, standing alone, shall be presumed not to have the effect of nullifying, restricting, or disparately reducing the per share voting rights of holders of an outstanding class or classes of common stock:
(1) The issuance of securities pursuant to an initial registered public offering;
(2) The issuance of any class of securities, through a registered public offering, with voting rights not greater than the per share voting rights of any outstanding class of the common stock of the issuer;
(3) The issuance of any class of securities to effect a bona fide merger or acquisition, with voting rights not greater than the per share voting rights of any outstanding class of the common stock of the issuer.
(4) Corporate action taken pursuant to state law requiring a state's domestic corporation to condition the voting rights of a beneficial or record holder of a specified threshold percentage of the corporation's voting stock on the approval of the corporation's independent shareholders.
(e)
Definitions.
The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this section, and the rules of each exchange and association shall include such definitions for the purposes of the prohibition in paragraphs (a) and (b), respectively, of this section:
(1) The term
Act
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(2) The term
common stock
shall include any security of an issuer designated as common stock and any security of an issuer, however designated, which, by statute or by its terms, is a common stock (e.g., a security which entitles the holders thereof to vote generally on matters submitted to the issuer's security holders for a vote).
(3) The term
equity security
shall include any equity security defined as such pursuant to Rule 3a11-1 under the Act (17 CFR 240.3a11-1).
(4) The term
domestic issuer
shall mean an issuer that is not a “foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the Act (17 CFR 240.3b-4).
(5) The term
security
shall include any security defined as such pursuant to section 3(a)(10) of the Act, but shall exclude any class of security having a preference or priority over the issuer's common stock as to dividends, interest payments, redemption or payments in liquidation, if the voting rights of such securities only become effective as a result of specified events, not relating to an acquisition of the common stock of the issuer, which reasonably can be expected to jeopardize the issuer's financial ability to meet its payment obligations to the holders of that class of securities.
(6) The term
exchange
shall mean a national securities exchange, registered as such with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 6 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f), which makes transaction reports available pursuant to § 242.601 of this chapter; and
(7) The term
association
shall mean a national securities association registered as such with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 15A of the Act.
(f) An exchange or association may adopt a rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation, subject to the procedures specified by section 19(b) of the Act, specifying what types of securities issuances and other corporate actions are covered by, or excluded from, the prohibition in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, respectively, if such rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation is consistent with the protection of investors and the public interest, and otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act and this section.
[53 FR 26394, July 12, 1988, as amended at 70 FR 37618, June 29, 2005]
§ 240.19c-5
Governing the multiple listing of options on national securities exchanges.
(a) The rules of each national securities exchange that provides a trading market in standardized put or call options shall provide as follows:
(1) On and after January 22, 1990, but not before, no rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation of this exchange shall prohibit or condition, or be construed to prohibit or condition or otherwise limit, directly or indirectly, the ability of this exchange to list any stock options class first listed on an exchange on or after January 22, 1990, because that options class is listed on another options exchange.
(2) During the period from January 22, 1990, to January 21, 1991, but not before, no rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation of this exchange shall
prohibit or condition, or be construed to prohibit or condition or otherwise limit, directly or indirectly, the ability of this exchange to list up to ten classes of standardized stock options overlying exchange-listed stocks that were listed on another options exchange before January 22, 1990. These ten classes shall be in addition to any option on an exchange-listed stock trading on this exchange that was traded on more than one options exchange before January 22, 1990.
(3) On and after January 21, 1991, but not before, no rule, stated policy, practice, or interpretation of this exchange shall prohibit or condition, or be construed to prohibit or condition or otherwise limit, directly or indirectly, the ability of this exchange to list any stock options class because that options class is listed on another options exchange.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this Rule, if any options class is delisted from an options exchange as a result of a merger of the equity security underlying the option or a failure of the underlying security to satisfy that exchange's options listing standards, then the exchange is permitted to select a replacement option from among those standardized options overlying exchange-listed stocks that were listed on another options exchange before January 22, 1990.
(c) For purposes of this Rule, the term
exchange
shall mean a national securities exchange, registered as such with the Commission pursuant to Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(d) For purposes of this Rule, the term
standardized option
shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in Rule 9b-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 17 CFR ­240.9b-1.
(e) For purposes of this Rule, the term
options class
shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in Rule 9b-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 17 CFR 240.9b-1.
[54 FR 23976, June 5, 1989]
§ 240.19d-1
Notices by self-regulatory organizations of final disciplinary actions, denials, bars, or limitations respecting membership, association, participation, or access to services, and summary suspensions.
(a)
General.
If any self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency takes any action described in this rule to which the person affected thereby has consented and such action:
(1) Conditions or limits membership or participation in, association with a member of, or access to services offered by, such organization or a member thereof and
(2) Is based upon a statutory disqualification defined in section 3(a)(39) of the Act, notice thereof shall be filed under Rule 19h-1 and not under this rule.
(b) The notice requirement of section 19(d)(1) of the Act, concerning an action subject to such section taken by a self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency, shall be satisfied by any notice with respect to such action (including a notice filed pursuant to this rule) which contains the information required in the statement supporting the organization's determination required by section 6(d) (1) or (2), section 15A(h) (1) or (2), or section 17A(b)(5) (A) or (B) of the Act, as appropriate.
(c)(1) Any self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency that takes any final disciplinary action with respect to any person shall promptly file a notice thereof with the Commission in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purposes of this rule, a “final disciplinary action” shall mean the imposition of any final disciplinary sanction pursuant to section 6(b)(6), 15A(b)(7), or 17A(b)(3)(G) of the Act or other action of a self-regulatory organization which, after notice and opportunity for hearing, results in any final disposition of charges of:
(i) One or more violations of—
(A) The rules of such organization;
(B) The provisions of the Act or rules thereunder; or
(C) In the case of a municipal securities broker or dealer, the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board;
(ii) Acts or practices constituting a statutory disqualification of a type defined in subparagraph (D) or (E) (except prior convictions) of section 3(a)(39) of the Act; or
(iii) In the case of a proceeding by a national securities exhange or registered securities association based on section 6(c)(3)(A)(ii), 6(c)(3)(B)(ii), 15A(g)(3)(A)(ii), or 15A(g)(3)(B)(ii) of the Act, acts or practices inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade.
Provided, however,
That in the case of a disciplinary action in which a national securities exchange imposes a fine not exceeding $1000 or suspends floor privileges of a clerical employee for not more than five days for violation of any of its regulations concerning personal decorum on a trading floor, the disposition shall not be considered “final” for purposes of this paragraph if the sanctioned person has not sought an adjudication, including a hearing, or otherwise exhausted his administrative remedies at the exchange with respect to the matter.
Provided further,
That this exemption from the notice requirement of this paragraph shall not be available where a decorum sanction is imposed at, or results from, a hearing on the matter.
(2) Any disciplinary action, other than a decorum sanction not deemed “final” under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, taken by a self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency against any person for violation of a rule of the self-regulatory organization which has been designated as a minor rule violation pursuant to a plan or any amendment thereto filed with and declared effective by the Commission under this paragraph, shall not be considered “final” for purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the sanction imposed consists of a fine not exceeding $2500 and the sanctioned person has not sought an adjudication, including a hearing, or otherwise exhausted his administrative remedies at the self-regulatory organization with resepect to the matter. After appropriate notice of the terms of substance of the filing or a description of the subjects and issues involved and opportunity for interested persons to submit written comment, the Commission may, by order, declare such plan or amendment effective if it finds that such plan or amendment is consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. The Commission in its order may restrict the categories of violations to be designated as minor rule violations and may impose any other terms or conditions to the plan (including abbreviated reporting of selected minor rule violations) and to the period of its effectiveness which it deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act.
(d)
Contents of notice required by paragraph (c)(1).
Any notice filed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) The name of the respondent concerned together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the records of the self-regulatory organization and the name of the person, committee, or other organizational unit which brought the charges involved; except that, as to any respondent who has been found not to have violated a provision covered by a charge, identifying information with respect to such person may be deleted insofar as the notice reports the disposition of that charge, unless, prior to the filing of the notice, the respondent requests otherwise;
(2) A statement describing the investigative or other origin of the action;
(3) As charged in the proceeding, the specific provisions of the Act, the rules or regulations thereunder, the rules of the organization, and, in the case of a registered securities association, the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and, in the event a violation of other statutes or rules constitutes a violation of any rule of the organization, such other statutes or rules; and a statement describing the answer of the respondent to the charges;
(4) A statement setting forth findings of fact with respect to any act or practice which such respondent was
charged with having engaged in or omitted; the conclusion of the organization as to whether such respondent is deemed to have violated any provision covered by the charges; and a statement of the organization in support of the resolution of the principal issues raised in the proceedings;
(5) A statement describing any sanction imposed, the reasons therefor, and the date upon which such sanction has or will become effective, together with a finding if appropriate, as to whether such respondent was a cause of any sanction imposed upon any other person; and
(6) Such other matters as the organization may deem relevant.
(e)
Notice of final denial, bar, prohibition, termination or limitation based on qualification or administrative rules.
Any final action of a self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency that is taken with respect to any person constituting a denial, bar, prohibition, or limitation of membership, participation or association with a member, or of access to services offered by a self-regulatory organization or a member thereof, and which is based on an alleged failure of any person to:
(1) Pass any test or examination required by the rules of the Commission or such organization;
(2) Comply with other qualification standards established by rules of the Commission or such organization; or
(3) Comply with any administrative requirements of such organization (including failure to pay entry or other dues or fees or to file prescribed forms or reports) not involving charges of violations which may lead to a disciplinary sanction shall not be considered a “disciplinary action” for purposes of paragraph (c) of this rule; but notice thereof shall be promptly filed with the Commission in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section,
Provided, however,
That no disposition of a matter shall be considered “final” pursuant to this paragraph which results merely from a notice of such failure to the person affected, if such person has not sought an adjudication, including a hearing, or otherwise exhausted his administrative remedies within such organization with respect to such a matter.
(f)
Contents of notice required by paragraph (e).
Any notice filed pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section shall consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) The name of each person concerned together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the records of the organization;
(2) The specific provisions of the Act, the rules or regulations thereunder, the rules of the organization, and, in the case of a registered securities association, the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, upon which the action of the organization was based, and a statement describing the answer of the person concerned;
(3) A statement setting forth findings of fact and conclusions as to each alleged failure of the person to pass any required examination, comply with other qualification standards, or comply with administrative obligations, and a statement of the organization in support of the resolution of the principal issues raised in the proceeding;
(4) The date upon which such action has or will become effective; and
(5) Such other matters as the organization may deem relevant.
(g)
Notice of final action based upon prior adjudicated statutory disqualifications.
Any self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency that takes any final action with respect to any person which:
(1) Denies or conditions membership or participation in, or association with a member of, such organization or prohibits or limits access to services offered by such organization or a member thereof; and
(2) Is based upon a statutory disqualification of a type defined in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 3(a)(39) of the Act or consisting of a prior conviction, as described in subparagraph (E) of said section 3(a)(39), shall promptly file a notice of such action with the Commission in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section,
provided, however,
That no disposition of a matter shall be considered “final” pursuant to this paragraph where such person has not sought an adjudication,
including a hearing, or otherwise exhausted his administrative remedies within such organization with respect to such a matter.
(h)
Contents of notice required by paragraph (g).
Any notice filed pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section shall consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) The name of the person concerned together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the record of the organization;
(2) A statement setting forth the principal issues raised, the answer of any person concerned, and a statement of the organization in support of the resolution of the principal issues raised in the proceeding;
(3) Any description furnished by or on behalf of the person concerned of the activities engaged in by the person since the adjudication upon which the disqualification is based;
(4) Any description furnished by or on behalf of the person concerned of the prospective business or employment in which the person plans to engage and the manner and extent of supervision to be exercised over and by such person;
(5) A copy of the order or decision of the court, the Commission or the self-regulatory organization which adjudicated the matter giving rise to such statutory disqualification;
(6) The nature of the action taken and the date upon which such action is to be made effective; and
(7) Such other matters as the organization deems relevant.
(i)
Notice of summary suspension of membership, participation, or association, or summary limitation or prohibition of access to services.
If any self-regulatory organization for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency summarily suspends a member, participant, or person associated with a member, or summarily limits or prohibits any person with respect to access to or services offered by the organization or (in the case of a national securities exchange or a registered securities association) a member thereof pursuant to the provisions of section 6(d)(3), 15A(h)(3) or 17A(b)(5) (C) of the Act, such organization shall, within 24 hours of the effectiveness of such summary suspension, limitation or prohibition notify the Commission of such action, which notice shall contain at least the following information:
(1) The name of the person concerned together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the records of the organization;
(2) The date upon which such summary action has or will become effective;
(3) If such summary action is based upon the provisions of section 6(d)(3)(A), 15A(h)(3)(A), or 17A(b)(5) (C)(i) of the Act, a copy of the relevant order or decision of the self-regulatory organization;
(4) If such summary action is based upon the provisions of section 6(d)(3) (B) or (C), 15A(h)(3) (B) or (C), or 17A(b)(5)(C) (ii) or (iii) of the Act, a statement describing, as appropriate:
(i) The financial or operating difficulty of the member or participant upon which such organization determined the member or particpant could not be permitted to continue to do business with safety to investors, creditors, other members or participants, or the organization;
(ii) The pertinent failure to meet qualification requirements or other prerequisites for access and the basis upon which such organization determined that the person concerned could not be permitted to have access with safety to investors, creditors, other members, or the organization; or
(iii) The default of any delivery of funds or securities to a clearing agency by a participant.
(5) The nature and effective date of the suspension, limitation or prohibition; and
(6) Such other matters as the organization deems relevant.
(j) Notice of limitation or prohibition of access to services by delisting of security. Any national securities exchange for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency that delists a security pursuant to section 12(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(d)), and Sec. 240.12d2-2 must file a notice with the Commission in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
(k) Contents of notice required by paragraph (j) of this section. The national securities exchange shall file notice pursuant to paragraph (j) of this
section on Form 25 (§ 249.25 of this chapter). Form 25 shall serve as notification to the Commission of such limitation or prohibition of access to services. The national securities exchange must attach a copy of its delisting determination to Form 25 and file Form 25 with the attachment on EDGAR.
[42 FR 36415, July 14, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 23831, June 8, 1984; 71 FR 42469, July 22, 2005]
§ 240.19d-2
Applications for stays of disciplinary sanctions or summary suspensions by a self-regulatory organization.
If any self-regulatory organization imposes any final disciplinary sanction as to which a notice is required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 19(d)(1) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(d)(1), pursuant to Section 6(b)(6), 15A(b)(7) or 17A(b)(3)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(6), 78
o
-3(b)(7) or 78q-1(b)(3)(G)), or summarily suspends or limits or prohibits access pursuant to Section 6(d)(3), 15A(h)(3) or 17A(b)(5)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(d)(3), 78
o
-3(h)(3) or 78q-1(b)(5)(C)), any person aggrieved thereby for which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency may file with the Commission a written motion for a stay of imposition of such action pursuant to Rule 401 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.401 of this chapter.
[60 FR 32825, June 23, 1995]
§ 240.19d-3
Applications for review of final disciplinary sanctions, denials of membership, participation or association, or prohibitions or limitations of access to services imposed by self-regulatory organizations.
Applications to the Commission for review of any final disciplinary sanction, denial or conditioning of membership, participation, bar from association, or prohibition or limitation with respect to access to services offered by a self-regulatory organization or a member thereof by any such organization shall be made pursuant to Rule 420 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, § 201.420 of this chapter.
[60 FR 32825, June 23, 1995]
§ 240.19d-4
Notice by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of disapproval of registration or of disciplinary action.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Board
means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(2)
Public accounting firm
shall have the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 7201(a)(11).
(3)
Registered public accounting firm
shall have the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 7201(a)(12).
(4)
Associated person
shall mean a person associated with a registered public accounting firm as defined in 15 U.S.C. 7201(a)(9).
(b)(1)
Notice of disapproval of registration.
If the Board disapproves a completed application for registration by a public accounting firm, the Board shall file a notice of its disapproval with the Commission within 30 days and serve a copy on the public accounting firm.
(2)
Contents of the notice.
The notice required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall provide the following information:
(i) The name of the public accounting firm and the public accounting firm's last known address as reflected in the Board's records;
(ii) The basis for the Board's disapproval, and a copy of the Board's written notice of disapproval; and
(iii) Such other information as the Board may deem relevant.
(c)(1)
Notice of disciplinary action.
If the Board imposes any final disciplinary sanction on any registered public accounting firm or any associated person of a registered public accounting firm under 15 U.S.C. 7215(b)(3) or 7215(c), the Board shall file a notice of the disciplinary sanction with the Commission within 30 days and serve a copy on the person sanctioned.
(2)
Contents of the notice.
The notice required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall provide the following information:
(i) The name of the registered public accounting firm or the associated person, together with the firm's or the person's last known address as reflected in the Board's records;
(ii) A description of the acts or practices, or omissions to act, upon which the sanction is based;
(iii) A statement of the sanction imposed, the reasons therefor, or a copy of the Board's statement justifying the sanction, and the effective date of such sanction; and
(iv) Such other information as the Board may deem relevant.
[69 FR 13182, Mar. 19, 2004]
§ 240.19g2-1
Enforcement of compliance by national securities exchanges and registered securities associations with the Act and rules and regulations thereunder.
(a) In enforcing compliance, within the meaning of section 19(g) of the Act, with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder by its members and persons associated with its members, a national securities exchange or registered securities association is not required:
(1) To enforce compliance with sections 12 (other than sections 12(j) and 12(k)), 13, 14 (other than section 14(b)), 15(d) and 16 and the rules thereunder except to the extent of any action normally taken with respect to any person which is not a member or a person associated with a member;
(2) To enforce compliance with respect to persons associated with a member, other than securities persons or persons who control a member; and
(3) To conduct examinations as to qualifications of, require filing of periodic reports by, or conduct regular inspections (including examinations of books and records) of, persons associated with a member, other than securities persons whose functions are not solely clerical or ministerial.
(b) For the purpose of this rule:
(1) A
securities person
is a person who is a general partner or officer (or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) or employee of a member;
Provided, however,
That a registered broker or dealer which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the member and the general partners and officers (and persons occupying similar status or performing similar functions) and employees of such a registered broker or dealer shall be securities persons if they effect, directly or indirectly, transactions in securities through the member by use of facilities maintained or supervised by such exchange or association; and
(2)
Control
means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a company whether through ownership of securities, by contract or otherwise;
Provided, however,
That:
(i) Any person who, directly or indirectly, (A) has the right to vote 25 percent or more of the voting securities, (B) is entitled to receive 25 percent or more of the net profits, or (C) is a director (or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) of a company shall be presumed to be a person who controls such company;
(ii) Any person not covered by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section shall be presumed not to be a person who controls such company; and
(iii) Any presumption may be rebutted on an appropriate showing.
(Secs. 3, 6, 19, 23, 48 Stat. 882, 885, 898, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78c, 78f, 78s, 78w); sec. 15A, 52 Stat. 1070, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78
o-
3))
[41 FR 51808, Nov. 24, 1976]
§ 240.19h-1
Notice by a self-regulatory organization of proposed admission to or continuance in membership or participation or association with a member of any person subject to a statutory disqualification, and applications to the Commission for relief therefrom.
(a)
Notice of admission or continuance notwithstanding a statutory disqualification.
(1) Any self-regulatory organization proposing, conditionally or unconditionally, to admit to, or continue any person in, membership or participation or (in the case of a national securities exchange or registered securities association) association with a member, notwithstanding a statutory disqualification, as defined in section 3(a)(39) of the Act, with respect to such person, shall file a notice with the Commission of such proposed admission or continuance. If such disqualified person has not consented to the terms of such proposal, notice of the organization's action shall be filed pursuant to rule 19d-1 under the Act and not this rule.
(2) With respect to a person associated with a member of a national securities exchange or registered securities
association, notices need be filed with the Commission pursuant to this rule only if such person:
(i) Controls such member, is a general partner or officer (or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) of such member, is an employee who, on behalf of such member, is engaged in securities advertising, public relations, research, sales, trading, or training or supervision of other employees who engage or propose to engage in such activities, except clerical and ministerial persons engaged in such activities, or is an employee with access to funds, securities or books and records, or
(ii) Is a broker or dealer not registered with the Commission, or controls such (unregistered) broker or dealer or is a general partner or officer (or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) of such broker or dealer.
(3) A notice need not be filed with the Commission pursuant to this rule if:
(i) The person subject to the statutory disqualification is already a participant in, a member of, or a person associated with a member of, a self-regulatory organization, and the terms and conditions of the proposed admission by another self-regulatory organization are the same in all material respects as those imposed or not disapproved in connection with such person's prior admission or continuance pursuant to an order of the Commission under paragraph (d) of this section or other substantially equivalent written communication.
(ii) The self-regulatory organization finds, after reasonable inquiry, that except for the identity of the employer concerned, the terms and conditions of the proposed admission or continuance are the same in all material respects as those imposed or not disapproved in connection with a prior admission or continuance of the person subject to the statutory disqualification pursuant to an order of the Commission under paragraph (d) of this section or other substantially equivalent written communication and that there is no intervening conduct or other circumstance that would cause the employment to be inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors;
(iii) The disqualification consists of (A) an injunction from engaging in any action, conduct, or practice specified in section 15(b)(4)(C) of the Act, which injunction was entered 10 or more years prior to the proposed admission or continuance—
Provided, however,
That in the case of a final or permanent injunction which was preceded by a preliminary injunction against the same person in the same court proceeding, such ten-year period shall begin to run from the date of such preliminary injunction—and/or (B) a finding by the Commission or a self-regulatory organization of a willful violation of the Act, the Securities Act of 1933, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a rule or regulation under one or more of such Acts and the sanction for such violation is no longer in effect;
(iv) The disqualification previously (A) was a basis for the institution of an administrative proceeding pursuant to a provision of the federal securities laws, and (B) was considered by the Commission in determining a sanction against such person in the proceeding; and the Commission concluded in such proceeding that it would not restrict or limit the future securities activities of such person in the capacity now proposed or, if it imposed any such restrictions or limitations for a specified time period, such time period has elapsed;
(v) The disqualification consists of a court order or judgment of injunction or conviction, and such order or judgment (A) expressly includes a provision that, on the basis of such order or judgment, the Commission will not institute a proceeding against such person pursuant to section 15(b) or 15B of the Act or that the future securities activities of such persons in the capacity now proposed will not be restricted or limited or (B) includes such restrictions or limitations for a specified time period and such time period has elapsed; or
(vi) In the case of a person seeking to become associated with a broker or dealer or municipal securities dealer, the Commission has previously consented to such proposed association pursuant to section 15(b)(6) or 15B(c)(4) of the Act.
In the case of an admission to membership, participation, or association, if an exception provided for in this paragraph (a)(3) is applicable, the self-regulatory organization shall, pursuant to its rules, determine when the admission to membership, participation, or association shall become effective.
(4) If a self-regulatory organization determines to admit to, or continue any person in, membership, participation, or association with a member pursuant to an exception from the notice requirements provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii), (iv) or (v) of this section, such organization shall, within 14 calendar days of its making of such determination, furnish to the Commission, by letter, a notification setting forth, as appropriate:
(i) The name of the person subject to the statutory disqualification;
(ii) The name of the person's prospective and immediately preceding employers who are (were) brokers or dealers or municipal securities dealers;
(iii) The name of the person's prospective supervisor(s);
(iv) The respective places of such employments as reflected on the records of the self-regulatory organization;
(v) If applicable, the findings of the self-regulatory organization referred to in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section and the nature (including relevant dates) of the previous Commission or court determination referred to in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) or (v) of this section; and
(vi) An identification of any other self-regulatory organization which has indicated its agreement with the terms and conditions of the proposed admission or continuance;
(5) If a notice or notification has been previously filed or furnished pursuant to this rule by a self-regulatory organization, any other such organization need not file or furnish a separate notice or notification pursuant to this rule with respect to the same matter if such other organization agrees with the terms and conditions of the membership, participation or association reflected in the notice or notification so filed or furnished, and such agreement is set forth in the notice or notification.
(6) The notice requirements of sections 6(c)(2), 15A(g)(2), and 17A(b)(4)(A) of the Act concerning an action of a self-regulatory organization subject to one (or more) of such sections and this paragraph (a) shall be satisfied by a notice with respect to such action filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(7) The Commission, by written notice to a self-regulatory organization on or before the thirtieth day after receipt of a notice under this Rule, may direct that such organization not admit to membership, participation, or association with a member any person who is subject to a statutory disqualification for a period not to exceed an additional 60 days beyond the initial 30 day notice period in order that the Commission may extend its consideration of the proposal;
Provided, however,
That during such extended period of consideration, the Commission will not direct the self-regulatory organization to bar the proposed admission to membership, participation or association with a member pursuant to section 6(c)(2), 15A(g)(2), or 17A(b)(4)(A) of the Act, and the Commission will not institute proceedings pursuant to section 15(b) or 15B of the Act on the basis of such disqualification if the self-regulatory organization has permitted the admission to membership, participation or association with a member, on a temporary basis, pending a final Commission determination.
(b)
Preliminary notifications.
Promptly after receiving an application for admission to, or continuance in, participation or membership in, or association with a member of, a self-regulatory organization which would be required to file with the Commission a notice thereof pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section if such admission or continuance is ultimately proposed by such organization, the organization shall file with the Commission a notification of such receipt. Such notification shall include, as appropriate:
(1) The date of such receipt;
(2) The names of the person subject to the statutory disqualification and the prospective employer concerned together with their respective last known
places of residence or business as reflected on the records of the organization;
(3) The basis for any such disqualification including (if based on a prior adjudication) a copy of the order or decision of the court, the Commission, or the self-regulatory organization which adjudicated the matter giving rise to the disqualification; and
(4) The capacity in which the person concerned is proposed to be employed.
(c)
Contents of notice of admission or continuance.
A notice filed with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall contain the following, as appropriate:
(1) The name of the person concerned together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the records of the self-regulatory organization;
(2) The basis for any such disqualification from membership, participation or association including (if based on a prior adjudication) a copy of the order or decision of the court, the Commission or the self-regulatory organization which adjudicated the matter giving rise to such disqualification;
(3) In the case of an admission, the date upon which it is proposed by the organization that such membership, participation or association shall become effective, which shall be not less than 30 days from the date upon which the Commission receives the notice;
(4) A description by or on behalf of the person concerned of the activities engaged in by the person since the disqualification arose, the prospective business or employment in which the person plans to engage and the manner and extent of supervision to be exercised over and by such person. This description shall be accompanied by a written statement submitted to the self-regulatory organization by the proposed employer setting forth the terms and conditions of such employment and supervision. The description also shall include (i) the qualifications, experience and disciplinary records of the proposed supervisors of the person and their family relationship (if any) to that person; (ii) the findings and results of all examinations conducted, during the two years preceding the filing of the notice, by self-regulatory organizations of the main office of the proposed employer and of the branch office(s) in which the employment will occur or be subject to supervisory controls; (iii) a copy of a completed Form U-4 with respect to the proposed association of such person and a certification by the self-regulatory organization that such person is fully qualified under all applicable requirements to engage in the proposed activities; and (iv) the name and place of employment of any other associated person of the proposed employer who is subject to a statutory disqualification (other than a disqualification specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section);
(5) If a hearing on the matter has been held by the organization, a certified record of the hearing together with copies of any exhibits introduced therein;
(6) All written submissions not included in a certified oral hearing record which were considered by the organization in its disposition of the matter;
(7) An identification of any other self-regulatory organization which has indicated its agreement with the terms and conditions of the proposed admission or continuance;
(8) All information furnished in writing to the self-regulatory organization by the staff of the Commission for consideration by the organization in its disposition of the matter or the incorporation by reference of such information, and a statement of the organization's views thereon; and
(9) Such other matters as the organization or person deems relevant.
If the notice contains assertions of material facts not a matter of record before the self-regulatory organization, such facts shall be sworn to by affidavit of the person or organization offering such facts for Commission consideration. The notice may be accompanied by a brief.
(d)
Application to the Commission for relief from certain statutory disqualifications.
The filing of a notice pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall neither affect nor foreclose any action which the Commission may take with respect to such person pursuant to the provisions of section 15(b), 15B or 19(h)
of the Act or any rule thereunder. Accordingly, a notice filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the membership, participation, or association of any person subject to an “applicable disqualification,” as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, may be accompanied by an application by or on behalf of the person concerned to the Commission for an order declaring, as applicable, that notwithstanding such disqualification, the Commission:
(1) Will not institute proceedings pursuant to section 15(b)(1)(B), 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6), 15B(a)(2), 15B(c)(2), 19(h)(2) or 19(h)(3) of the Act if such person seeks to obtain or continue registration as a broker or dealer or municipal securities dealer or association with a broker or dealer or municipal securities dealer so registered, or membership or participation in a self-regulatory organization;
(2) Will not direct otherwise, as provided in section 6(c)(2), 15A(g)(2) or 17A(b)(4)(A) of the Act; and
(3) Will deem such person qualified pursuant to Rule G-4 of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board under the Act.
If a Commission consent is required in order to render a proposed association lawful under section 15(b)(6) or 15B(c)(4) of the Act, an application by or on behalf of the person seeking such consent shall accompany the notice of the proposed association filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The Commission may, in its discretion and subject to such terms and conditions as it deems necessary, issue such an order and consent should the Commission determine not to object to the position of the self-regulatory organization set forth in the notice or application;
Provided, however,
That nothing herein shall foreclose the right of any person, at his election, to apply directly to the Commission for such consent, if he makes such application pursuant to the terms of an existing order of the Commission under section 15(b)(6) or 15B(c)(4) of the Act limiting his association with a broker or dealer or municipal securities dealer but explicitly granting him such a right to apply for entry or reentry at a later time.
(e)
Contents of application to the Commission.
An application to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) The name of the person subject to the disqualification together with his last known place of residence or business as reflected on the records of the self-regulatory organization;
(2) A copy of the order or decision of the court, the Commission or the self-regulatory organization which adjudicated the matter giving rise to such “applicable disqualification”;
(3) The nature of the relief sought and the reasons therefor;
(4) A description of the activities engaged in by the person since the disqualification arose;
(5) A description of the prospective business or employment in which the person plans to engage and the manner and extent of supervision to be exercised over and by such person. This description shall be accompanied by a written statement submitted to the self-regulatory organization by the proposed employer setting forth the terms and conditions of such employment and supervision. The description also shall include (i) the qualifications, experience, and disciplinary records of the proposed supervisors of the person and their family relationship (if any) to that person; (ii) the findings and results of all examinations conducted, during the two years preceding the filing of the application, by self-regulatory organizations of the main office of the proposed employer and of the branch office(s) in which the employment will occur or be subject to supervisory controls; (iii) a copy of a completed Form U-4 with respect to the proposed association of such person and a certification by the self-regulatory organization that such person is fully qualified under all applicable requirements to engage in the proposed activities; and (iv) the name and place of employment of any other associated person of the proposed employer who is subject to a statutory disqualification (other than a disqualification specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section);
(6) If a hearing on the matter has been held by the organization, a certified copy of the hearing record, together with copies of any exhibits introduced therein;
(7) All written submissions not included in a certified oral hearing record which were considered by the organization in its disposition of the matter;
(8) All information furnished in writing to the self-regulatory organization by the staff of the Commission for consideration by the organization in its disposition of the matter or the incorporation by reference of such information, and a statement of the organization's views thereon; and
(9) Such other matters as the organization or person deems relevant.
If the application contains assertions of material facts not a matter of record before the organization, such facts shall be sworn to by affidavit of the person or organization offering such facts for Commission consideration.
(f)
Definitions.
For purposes of this rule:
(1) The term
applicable disqualification
shall mean:
(i) Any effective order of the Commission pursuant to section 15(b) (4) or (6), 15B(c) (2) or (4) or 19(h) (2) or (3) of the Act—
(A) Revoking, suspending or placing limitations on the registration, activities, functions, or operations of a broker or dealer;
(B) Suspending, barring, or placing limitations on the association, activities, or functions of an associated person of a broker or dealer;
(C) Suspending or expelling any person from membership or participation in a self-regulatory organization; or
(D) Suspending or barring any person from being associated with a member of a national securities exchange or registered securities association;
(ii) Any conviction of injunction of a type described in section 15(b)(4) (B) or (C) of the Act; or
(iii) A failure under the provisions of Rule G-4 of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board under the Act, to meet qualifications standards, and such failure may be remedied by a finding or determination by the Commission pursuant to such rule(s) that the person affected nevertheless meets such standards.
(2) The term
control
shall mean the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a company whether through ownership of securities, by contract or otherwise;
Provided, however,
That
(i) Any person who, directly or indirectly, (A) has the right to vote 10 percent or more of the voting securities, (B) is entitled to receive 10 percent or more of the net profits, or (C) is a director (or person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) of a company shall be presumed to be a person who controls such company;
(ii) Any person not covered by paragraph (i) shall be presumed not to be a person who controls such company; and
(iii) Any presumption may be rebutted on an appropriate showing.
(g) Where it deems appropriate to do so, the Commission may determine whether to (1) direct, pursuant to section 6(c)(2), 15A(g)(2) or 17A(b)(4)(A) of the Act, that a proposed admission covered by a notice filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be denied or an order barring a proposed association issued or (2) grant or deny an application filed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section on the basis of the notice or application filed by the self-regulatory organization, the person subject to the disqualification, or other applicant (such as the proposed employer) on behalf of such person, without oral hearing. Any request for oral hearing or argument should be submitted with the notice or application.
(h) The Rules of Practice (17 CFR part 201) shall apply to proceedings under this rule to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this rule.
(15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
as amended by Pub. L. 94-29 (June 4, 1975) and by Pub. L. 98-38 (June 6, 1983), particularly secs. 11A, 15, 19 and 23 thereof (15 U.S.C. 78k-1, 78
o,
78s and 78w))
[46 FR 58661, Dec. 3, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 53691, Nov. 29, 1983]

# Securities Whistleblower Incentives and Protections

# Source:
Sections 240.21F-1 through 240.21F-17 appear at 76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011.
§ 240.21F-1
General.
Section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78u-6), entitled “Securities Whistleblower Incentives and Protection,” requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) to pay awards, subject to certain limitations and conditions, to whistleblowers who provide the Commission with original information about violations of the Federal securities laws. These rules describe the whistleblower program that the Commission has established to implement the provisions of Section 21F, and explain the procedures you will need to follow in order to be eligible for an award. You should read these procedures carefully because the failure to take certain required steps within the time frames described in these rules may disqualify you from receiving an award for which you otherwise may be eligible. Unless expressly provided for in these rules, no person is authorized to make any offer or promise, or otherwise to bind the Commission with respect to the payment of any award or the amount thereof. The Securities and Exchange Commission's Office of the Whistleblower administers our whistleblower program. Questions about the program or these rules should be directed to the SEC Office of the Whistleblower, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549-5631.
§ 240.21F-2
Whistleblower status, award eligibility, confidentiality, and retaliation protections.
(a)
Whistleblower status.
(1) You are a whistleblower for purposes of Section 21F of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6) as of the time that, alone or jointly with others, you provide the Commission with information in writing that relates to a possible violation of the federal securities laws (including any law, rule, or regulation subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission) that has occurred, is ongoing, or is about to occur.
(2) A whistleblower must be an individual. A company or other entity is not eligible to be a whistleblower.
(b)
Award eligibility.
To be eligible for an award under Section 21F(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(b)) based on any information you provide that relates to a possible violation of the federal securities laws, you must comply with the procedures and the conditions described in §§ 240.21F-4, 240.21F-8, and 240.21F-9. You should carefully review those rules before you submit any information that you may later wish to rely upon to claim an award.
(c)
Confidentiality protections.
To qualify for the confidentiality protections afforded by Section 21F(h)(2) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)(2)) based on any information you provide that relates to a possible violation of the federal securities laws, you must comply with the procedures and the conditions described in Rule 21F-9(a) (§ 240.21F-9(a)).
(d)
Retaliation protections.
(1) To qualify for the retaliation protections afforded by Section 21F(h)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)(1)), you must satisfy all of the following criteria:
(i) You must qualify as a whistleblower under paragraph (a) of this section before experiencing the retaliation for which you seek redress;
(ii) You must reasonably believe that the information you provide to the Commission under paragraph (a) of this section relates to a possible violation of the federal securities laws; and
(iii) You must perform a lawful act that meets the following two criteria:
(A) First, the lawful act must be performed in connection with any of the activities described in Section 21F(h)(1)(A)(i) through (iii) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)(1)(A)(i) through (iii)); and
(B) Second, the lawful act must relate to the subject matter of your submission to the Commission under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) To receive retaliation protection for a lawful act described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, you do not need to qualify as a whistleblower under paragraph (a) of this section before performing the lawful act, but you must qualify as a whistleblower under paragraph (a) of this section before experiencing retaliation for the lawful act.
(3) To qualify for retaliation protection, you do not need to satisfy the procedures and conditions for award
eligibility in §§ 240.21F-4, 240.21F-8, and 240.21F-9.
(4) Section 21F(h)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)(1)), including any rules promulgated thereunder, shall be enforceable in an action or proceeding brought by the Commission.
[85 FR 75942, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 240.21F-3
Payment of awards.
(a)
Commission actions:
Subject to the eligibility requirements described in §§ 240.21F-2, 240.21F-8, and 240.21F-16 of this chapter, the Commission will pay an award or awards to one or more whistleblowers who:
(1) Voluntarily provide the Commission
(2) With original information
(3) That leads to the successful enforcement by the Commission of a Federal court or administrative action
(4) In which the Commission obtains monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
The terms
voluntarily, original information, leads to successful enforcement, action,
and
monetary sanctions
are defined in § 240.21F-4 of this chapter.
(b)
Related actions:
The Commission will also pay an award based on amounts collected in certain related actions.
(1) A
related action
is a judicial or administrative action that is brought by one of the governmental entities listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section or a self-regulatory organization as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section (collectively “governmental/SRO authority”), that yields monetary sanctions, and that is based upon information that either the whistleblower provided directly to a governmental/SRO entity or the Commission itself passed along to the governmental/SRO entity pursuant to the Commission's procedures for sharing information, and which is the same original information that the whistleblower voluntarily provided to the Commission and that led the Commission to obtain monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000.
(i) The Attorney General of the United States;
(ii) An appropriate regulatory authority (as defined in § 240.21F-4); or
(iii) A state Attorney General in a criminal case; or
(iv) A self-regulatory organization (as defined in § 240.21F-4).
(2) In order for the Commission to make an award in connection with a related action, the Commission must determine that the same original information that the whistleblower gave to the Commission also led to the successful enforcement of the related action under the same criteria described in these rules for awards made in connection with Commission actions. The Commission may seek assistance and confirmation from the authority bringing the related action in making this determination. The Commission will deny an award in connection with the related action if:
(i) The Commission determines that the criteria for an award are not satisfied; or
(ii) The Commission is unable to make a determination because the Office of the Whistleblower could not obtain sufficient and reliable information that could be used as the basis for an award determination pursuant to § 240.21F-12(a) of this chapter. Additional procedures apply to the payment of awards in related actions. These procedures are described in §§ 240.21F-11 and 240.21F-14 of this chapter.
(3) The following provision shall apply where a claimant's application for a potential related action may also involve a potential recovery from a comparable whistleblower award program (as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section) for that same action.
(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if a judicial or administrative action is subject to a separate monetary award program established by the Federal Government, a state government, or a self-regulatory organization (SRO), the action will be deemed eligible to qualify as a potential related-action only if either:
(A) The Commission finds that the maximum total award that could potentially be paid by the Commission based on the monetary sanctions imposed would not exceed $5 million; or
(B) The Commission finds (based on the facts and circumstances of the action) that the Commission's whistleblower award program has the more direct or relevant connection to that action.
(ii) In determining whether a potential related action has a more direct or relevant connection to the Commission's whistleblower program than another award program, the Commission will consider the nature, scope, and impact of the misconduct charged in the potential related action, and its relationship to the Federal securities laws. This inquiry may include consideration of, among other things:
(A) The relative extent to which the misconduct charged in the potential related action implicates the public policy interests underlying the Federal securities laws (such as investor protection) rather than other law-enforcement or regulatory interests (such as tax collection or fraud against the Federal Government);
(B) The degree to which the monetary sanctions imposed in the potential related action are attributable to conduct that also underlies the Federal securities law violations that were the subject of the Commission's enforcement action; and
(C) Whether the potential related action involves state-law claims and the extent to which the state may have a whistleblower award program that potentially applies to that type of law-enforcement action.
(iii) The conditions in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section apply to a determination under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(A) The Commission shall not make a related-action award to a claimant (or any payment on a related-action award if the Commission has already made an award determination) if the claimant receives any payment from the other program for that action.
(B) If a claimant was denied an award by the other award program, the claimant will not be permitted to re-adjudicate any issues before the Commission that the governmental/SRO entity responsible for administering the other whistleblower award program resolved, pursuant to a final order of such government/SRO entity, against the claimant as part of the award denial.
(C) If the Commission makes an award before an award determination is finalized by the governmental/SRO entity responsible for administering the other award program, the award shall be conditioned on the claimant making an irrevocable waiver of any claim to an award from the other award program. The claimant's irrevocable waiver must be made within 60 calendar days of the claimant receiving notification of the Commission's final order.
(iv) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section apply to program comparability determinations.
(A) For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a comparable whistleblower award program is an award program that satisfies the following criteria:
(
1
) The award program is administered by an authority or entity other than the Commission;
(
2
) The award program does not have an award range that could operate in a particular action to yield an award for a claimant that is meaningfully lower (when assessed against the maximum and minimum potential awards that program would allow) than the award range that the Commission's program could yield (
i.e.,
10 to 30 percent of collected monetary sanctions);
(
3
) The award program does not have a cap that could operate in a particular action to yield an award for a claimant that is meaningfully lower than the maximum award the Commission could grant for the action (
i.e.,
30 percent of collected monetary sanctions in the related action); and
(
4
) The authority or entity administering the program may not in its discretion deny an award if a whistleblower satisfies the established eligibility requirements and award criteria.
(B) The Commission shall make a determination on a case-by-case basis whether an alternative award program is a comparable award program for purposes of the particular action on which the claimant is seeking a related-action award with respect to paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A)(
2
) through (
3
) of this section.
(C) If the Commission determines that an alternative award program is not comparable, the Commission shall condition its award on the meritorious whistleblower making within 60 calendar days of receiving notification of the Commission's final award an irrevocable waiver of any claim to an award from the other award program.
(D) A whistleblower whose related-action award application is subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section (including a whistleblower whose related-action award application implicates another award program that does not qualify as a comparable program as a result of paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(A) of this section) must demonstrate that the whistleblower has complied with the terms and conditions of this section regarding an irrevocable waiver. This shall include taking all steps necessary to authorize the administrators of the other program to confirm to staff in the Office of the Whistleblower (or in writing to the claimant or the Commission) that an irrevocable waiver has been made.
(v) A claimant seeking a related-action award must promptly inform the Office of the Whistleblower if the claimant applies for an award on the same action from another award program.
(vi) The Commission may deem a claimant ineligible for a related-action award if any of the conditions and requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section in connection with that related action are not satisfied.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70943, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 54150, Sept. 2, 2022]
§ 240.21F-4
Other definitions.
(a)
Voluntary submission of information.
(1) Your submission of information is made
voluntarily
within the meaning of §§ 240.21F-1 through 240.21F-17 of this chapter if you provide your submission before a request, inquiry, or demand that relates to the subject matter of your submission is directed to you or anyone representing you (such as an attorney):
(i) By the Commission;
(ii) In connection with an investigation, inspection, or examination by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or any self-regulatory organization; or
(iii) In connection with an investigation by Congress, any other authority of the Federal government, or a state Attorney General or securities regulatory authority.
(2) If the Commission or any of these other authorities direct a request, inquiry, or demand as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to you or your representative first, your submission will not be considered voluntary, and you will not be eligible for an award, even if your response is not compelled by subpoena or other applicable law. However, your submission of information to the Commission will be considered voluntary if you voluntarily provided the same information to one of the other authorities identified above prior to receiving a request, inquiry, or demand from the Commission.
(3) In addition, your submission will not be considered voluntary if you are required to report your original information to the Commission as a result of a pre-existing legal duty, a contractual duty that is owed to the Commission or to one of the other authorities set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or a duty that arises out of a judicial or administrative order.
(b)
Original information.
(1) In order for your whistleblower submission to be considered
original information,
it must be:
(i) Derived from your independent knowledge or independent analysis;
(ii) Not already known to the Commission from any other source, unless you are the original source of the information;
(iii) Not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or administrative hearing, in a governmental report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news media, unless you are a source of the information; and
(iv) Provided to the Commission for the first time after July 21, 2010 (the date of enactment of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
).
(2)
Independent knowledge
means factual information in your possession
that is not derived from publicly available sources. You may gain independent knowledge from your experiences, communications and observations in your business or social interactions.
(3)
Independent analysis
means your own analysis, whether done alone or in combination with others.
Analysis
means your examination and evaluation of information that may be publicly available, but which reveals information that is not generally known or available to the public.
(4) The Commission will not consider information to be derived from your independent knowledge or independent analysis in any of the following circumstances:
(i) If you obtained the information through a communication that was subject to the attorney-client privilege, unless disclosure of that information would otherwise be permitted by an attorney pursuant to § 205.3(d)(2) of this chapter, the applicable state attorney conduct rules, or otherwise;
(ii) If you obtained the information in connection with the legal representation of a client on whose behalf you or your employer or firm are providing services, and you seek to use the information to make a whistleblower submission for your own benefit, unless disclosure would otherwise be permitted by an attorney pursuant to § 205.3(d)(2) of this chapter, the applicable state attorney conduct rules, or otherwise; or
(iii) In circumstances not covered by paragraphs (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section, if you obtained the information because you were:
(A) An officer, director, trustee, or partner of an entity and another person informed you of allegations of misconduct, or you learned the information in connection with the entity's processes for identifying, reporting, and addressing possible violations of law;
(B) An employee whose principal duties involve compliance or internal audit responsibilities, or you were employed by or otherwise associated with a firm retained to perform compliance or internal audit functions for an entity;
(C) Employed by or otherwise associated with a firm retained to conduct an inquiry or investigation into possible violations of law; or
(D) An employee of, or other person associated with, a public accounting firm, if you obtained the information through the performance of an engagement required of an independent public accountant under the Federal securities laws (other than an audit subject to § 240.21F-8(c)(4) of this chapter), and that information related to a violation by the engagement client or the client's directors, officers or other employees.
(iv) If you obtained the information by a means or in a manner that is determined by a United States court to violate applicable Federal or state criminal law; or
(v)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section shall not apply if:
(A) You have a reasonable basis to believe that disclosure of the information to the Commission is necessary to prevent the relevant entity from engaging in conduct that is likely to cause substantial injury to the financial interest or property of the entity or investors;
(B) You have a reasonable basis to believe that the relevant entity is engaging in conduct that will impede an investigation of the misconduct; or
(C) At least 120 days have elapsed since you provided the information to the relevant entity's audit committee, chief legal officer, chief compliance officer (or their equivalents), or your supervisor, or since you received the information, if you received it under circumstances indicating that the entity's audit committee, chief legal officer, chief compliance officer (or their equivalents), or your supervisor was already aware of the information.
(vi) If you obtained the information from a person who is subject to this section, unless the information is not excluded from that person's use pursuant to this section, or you are providing the Commission with information about possible violations involving that person.
(5) The Commission will consider you to be an
original source
of the same information that we obtain from another source if the information satisfies the
definition of original information and the other source obtained the information from you or your representative. In order to be considered an original source of information that the Commission receives from Congress, any other authority of the Federal government, a state Attorney General or securities regulatory authority, any self-regulatory organization, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, you must have voluntarily given such authorities the information within the meaning of these rules. You must establish your status as the original source of information to the Commission's satisfaction. In determining whether you are the original source of information, the Commission may seek assistance and confirmation from one of the other authorities described above, or from another entity (including your employer), in the event that you claim to be the original source of information that an authority or another entity provided to the Commission.
(6) If the Commission already knows some information about a matter from other sources at the time you make your submission, and you are not an original source of that information under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the Commission will consider you an original source of any information you provide that is derived from your independent knowledge or analysis and that materially adds to the information that the Commission already possesses.
(7) If you provide information to the Congress, any other authority of the Federal government, a state Attorney General or securities regulatory authority, any self-regulatory organization, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or to an entity's internal whistleblower, legal, or compliance procedures for reporting allegations of possible violations of law, and you, within 120 days, submit the same information to the Commission pursuant to § 240.21F-9 of this chapter, as you must do in order for you to be eligible to be considered for an award, then, for purposes of evaluating your claim to an award under §§ 240.21F-10 and 240.21F-11 of this chapter, the Commission will consider that you provided information as of the date of your original disclosure, report or submission to one of these other authorities or persons. You must establish the effective date of any prior disclosure, report, or submission, to the Commission's satisfaction. The Commission may seek assistance and confirmation from the other authority or person in making this determination.
(c)
Information that leads to successful enforcement.
The Commission will consider that you provided original information that led to the successful enforcement of a judicial or administrative action in any of the following circumstances:
(1) You gave the Commission original information that was sufficiently specific, credible, and timely to cause the staff to commence an examination, open an investigation, reopen an investigation that the Commission had closed, or to inquire concerning different conduct as part of a current examination or investigation, and the Commission brought a successful judicial or administrative action based in whole or in part on conduct that was the subject of your original information; or
(2) You gave the Commission original information about conduct that was already under examination or investigation by the Commission, the Congress, any other authority of the Federal Government, a state attorney general or securities regulatory authority, any self-regulatory organization, or the PCAOB (except in cases where you were an original source of this information as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section), and your submission significantly contributed to the success of the action; or
(3) You reported original information through an entity's internal whistleblower, legal, or compliance procedures for reporting allegations of possible violations of law before or at the same time you reported them to the Commission; the entity later provided your information to the Commission, or provided results of an audit or investigation initiated in whole or in part in response to information you reported to the entity; and the information the entity provided to the Commission satisfies either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of
this section. Under this paragraph (c)(3), you must also submit the same information to the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 240.21F-9 within 120 days of providing it to the entity.
(d) An
action
generally means a single captioned judicial or administrative proceeding brought by the Commission. Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(1) For purposes of making an award under § 240.21F-10 of this chapter, the Commission will treat as a Commission action two or more administrative or judicial proceedings brought by the Commission if these proceedings arise out of the same nucleus of operative facts; or
(2) For purposes of determining the payment on an award under § 240.21F-14 of this chapter, the Commission will deem as part of the Commission action upon which the award was based any subsequent Commission proceeding that, individually, results in a monetary sanction of $1,000,000 or less, and that arises out of the same nucleus of operative facts.
(3) For purposes of making an award under §§ 240.21F-10 and 240.21F-11, the following will be deemed to be an administrative action and any money required to be paid thereunder will be deemed a monetary sanction under § 240.21F-4(e):
(i) A non-prosecution agreement or deferred prosecution agreement entered into by the U.S. Department of Justice; or
(ii) A similar settlement agreement entered into by the Commission outside of the context of a judicial or administrative proceeding to address violations of the securities laws.
(e)
Monetary sanctions
means:
(1) An order to pay money that results from a Commission action or related action and which is either:
(i) Expressly designated as a penalty, disgorgement, or interest; or
(ii) Otherwise ordered as relief for the violations that are the subject of the covered action or related action; or
(2) Any money deposited into a disgorgement fund or other fund pursuant to section 308(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7246(b)), as a result of such action or any settlement of such action.
(f)
Appropriate regulatory agency
means the Commission, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and any other agencies that may be defined as appropriate regulatory agencies under Section 3(a)(34) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)).
(g)
Appropriate regulatory authority
means an appropriate regulatory agency other than the Commission.
(h)
Self-regulatory organization
means any national securities exchange, registered securities association, registered clearing agency, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and any other organizations that may be defined as self-regulatory organizations under Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)).
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70943, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 54151, Sept. 2, 2022]
§ 240.21F-5
Amount of award.
(a) The determination of the amount of an award is in the discretion of the Commission.
(b) If all of the conditions are met for a whistleblower award in connection with a Commission action or a related action, the Commission will then decide the percentage amount of the award applying the criteria set forth in § 240.21F-6 of this chapter and pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 240.21F-10 and 240.21F-11 of this chapter. The amount will be at least 10 percent and no more than 30 percent of the monetary sanctions that the Commission and the other authorities are able to collect. The percentage awarded in connection with a Commission action may differ from the percentage awarded in connection with a related action.
(c) If the Commission makes awards to more than one whistleblower in connection with the same action or related action, the Commission will determine an individual percentage award for each whistleblower, but in no event will the total amount awarded to all whistleblowers in the aggregate be less
than 10 percent or greater than 30 percent of the amount the Commission or the other authorities collect.
§ 240.21F-6
Criteria for determining amount of award.
In exercising its discretion to determine the appropriate award, the Commission may consider the following factors (and only the following factors) in relation to the facts and circumstances of each case in setting the dollar or percentage amount of the award. In the event that awards are determined for multiple whistleblowers in connection an action, these factors will be used to determine the relative allocation of awards among the whistleblowers.
(a)
Factors that may increase the amount of a whistleblower's award.
In determining whether to increase the amount of an award, the Commission will consider the following factors, which are not listed in order of importance.
(1)
Significance of the information provided by the whistleblower.
The Commission will assess the significance of the information provided by a whistleblower to the success of the Commission action or related action. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) The nature of the information provided by the whistleblower and how it related to the successful enforcement action, including whether the reliability and completeness of the information provided to the Commission by the whistleblower resulted in the conservation of Commission resources;
(ii) The degree to which the information provided by the whistleblower supported one or more successful claims brought in the Commission or related action.
(2)
Assistance provided by the whistleblower.
The Commission will assess the degree of assistance provided by the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower in the Commission action or related action. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) Whether the whistleblower provided ongoing, extensive, and timely cooperation and assistance by, for example, helping to explain complex transactions, interpreting key evidence, or identifying new and productive lines of inquiry;
(ii) The timeliness of the whistleblower's initial report to the Commission or to an internal compliance or reporting system of business organizations committing, or impacted by, the securities violations, where appropriate;
(iii) The resources conserved as a result of the whistleblower's assistance;
(iv) Whether the whistleblower appropriately encouraged or authorized others to assist the staff of the Commission who might otherwise not have participated in the investigation or related action;
(v) The efforts undertaken by the whistleblower to remediate the harm caused by the violations, including assisting the authorities in the recovery of the fruits and instrumentalities of the violations; and
(vi) Any unique hardships experienced by the whistleblower as a result of his or her reporting and assisting in the enforcement action.
(3)
Law enforcement interest.
The Commission will assess its programmatic interest in deterring violations of the securities laws by making awards to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to the successful enforcement of such laws. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) The degree to which an award enhances the Commission's ability to enforce the Federal securities laws and protect investors; and
(ii) The degree to which an award encourages the submission of high quality information from whistleblowers by appropriately rewarding whistleblowers' submission of significant information and assistance, even in cases where the monetary sanctions available for collection are limited or potential monetary sanctions were reduced or eliminated by the Commission because an entity self-reported a securities violation following the whistleblower's related internal disclosure, report, or submission.
(iii) Whether the subject matter of the action is a Commission priority,
whether the reported misconduct involves regulated entities or fiduciaries, whether the whistleblower exposed an industry-wide practice, the type and severity of the securities violations, the age and duration of misconduct, the number of violations, and the isolated, repetitive, or ongoing nature of the violations; and
(iv) The dangers to investors or others presented by the underlying violations involved in the enforcement action, including the amount of harm or potential harm caused by the underlying violations, the type of harm resulting from or threatened by the underlying violations, and the number of individuals or entities harmed.
(4)
Participation in internal compliance systems.
The Commission will assess whether, and the extent to which, the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower participated in internal compliance systems. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) Whether, and the extent to which, a whistleblower reported the possible securities violations through internal whistleblower, legal or compliance procedures before, or at the same time as, reporting them to the Commission; and
(ii) Whether, and the extent to which, a whistleblower assisted any internal investigation or inquiry concerning the reported securities violations.
(b)
Factors that may decrease the amount of a whistleblower's award.
In determining whether to decrease the amount of an award, the Commission will consider the following factors, which are not listed in order of importance.
(1)
Culpability.
The Commission will assess the culpability or involvement of the whistleblower in matters associated with the Commission's action or related actions. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) The whistleblower's role in the securities violations;
(ii) The whistleblower's education, training, experience, and position of responsibility at the time the violations occurred;
(iii) Whether the whistleblower acted with scienter, both generally and in relation to others who participated in the violations;
(iv) Whether the whistleblower financially benefitted from the violations;
(v) Whether the whistleblower is a recidivist;
(vi) The egregiousness of the underlying fraud committed by the whistleblower; and
(vii) Whether the whistleblower knowingly interfered with the Commission's investigation of the violations or related enforcement actions.
(2)
Unreasonable reporting delay.
The Commission will assess whether the whistleblower unreasonably delayed reporting the securities violations. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) Whether the whistleblower was aware of the relevant facts but failed to take reasonable steps to report or prevent the violations from occurring or continuing;
(ii) Whether the whistleblower was aware of the relevant facts but only reported them after learning about a related inquiry, investigation, or enforcement action; and
(iii) Whether there was a legitimate reason for the whistleblower to delay reporting the violations.
(3)
Interference with internal compliance and reporting systems.
The Commission will assess, in cases where the whistleblower interacted with his or her entity's internal compliance or reporting system, whether the whistleblower undermined the integrity of such system. In considering this factor, the Commission will take into account whether there is evidence provided to the Commission that the whistleblower knowingly:
(i) Interfered with an entity's established legal, compliance, or audit procedures to prevent or delay detection of the reported securities violation;
(ii) Made any material false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations that hindered an entity's efforts to detect, investigate, or remediate the reported securities violations; and
(iii) Provided any false writing or document knowing the writing or document contained any false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or entries that
hindered an entity's efforts to detect, investigate, or remediate the reported securities violations.
(c)
Additional considerations in connection with certain awards of $5 million or less.
(1) This subpart applies when the Commission is considering any meritorious award application where:
(i) The statutory maximum award of 30 percent of the monetary sanctions collected in any covered and related action(s), in the aggregate, is $5 million or less, and the Commission determines that it does not reasonably anticipate that future collections would cause the statutory maximum award to be paid to any whistleblower to exceed $5 million in the aggregate;
(ii) None of the negative award factors specified in paragraphs §§ 240.21F-6(b)(1) or 240.21F-6(b)(3) were found present with respect to the claimant's award application, and the award claim does not trigger § 240.21F-16 (concerning awards to whistleblowers who engage in culpable conduct);
(iii) The claimant did not engage in unreasonable reporting delay under § 240.21F-(6)(b)(2) (although the Commission, in its sole discretion, may in certain limited circumstances determine to waive this criterion if the claimant can demonstrate that doing so based on the facts and circumstances of the matter is consistent with the public interest, the promotion of investor protection, and the objectives of the whistleblower program); and
(iv) The Commission does not otherwise determine in its sole discretion that application of the enhancement afforded by this subpart would be inappropriate because either:
(A) The whistleblower's assistance in the covered action or related action (as assessed under § 240.21F-6(a) of this section) was, under the relevant facts and circumstances, limited; or
(B) Providing the enhancement would be inconsistent with the public interest, the promotion of investor protection, or the objectives of the whistleblower program.
(2) If the Commission determines that the criteria in § 240.21F-6(c)(1) are satisfied, the resulting payout to a claimant for the original information that the claimant provided that led to one or more successful covered or related action(s), collectively, will be the maximum allowed under the statute.
(3) Notwithstanding § 240.21F-6(c)(2), if two or more claimants qualify for an award in connection with any covered action or related action and at least one of those claimant's award applications qualifies under § 240.21F-6(c)(1), the aggregate amount awarded to all meritorious claimants will be the statutory maximum. In allocating that amount among the meritorious claimants, the Commission will consider whether an individual claimant's award application satisfies §§ 240.21F-6(c)(1)(ii) and 240.21F-6(c)(1)(iii).
(d)
Consideration of the dollar amount of an award.
When applying the award factors specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Commission may consider the dollar amount of a potential award for the limited purpose of increasing the award amount. The Commission shall not, however, use the dollar amount of a potential award as a basis to lower a potential award, including when applying the factors specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70943, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 54150, Sept. 2, 2022]
§ 240.21F-7
Confidentiality of submissions.
(a) Pursuant to Section 21F(h)(2) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)(2)) and § 240.21F-2(c), the Commission will not disclose information that could reasonably be expected to reveal the identity of a whistleblower provided that the whistleblower has submitted information utilizing the processes specified in § 240.21F-9(a), except that the Commission may disclose such information in the following circumstances:
(1) When disclosure is required to a defendant or respondent in connection with a Federal court or administrative action that the Commission files or in another public action or proceeding that is filed by an authority to which we provide the information, as described below;
(2) When the Commission determines that it is necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.
78a) and to protect investors, it may provide your information to the Department of Justice, an appropriate regulatory authority, a self regulatory organization, a state attorney general in connection with a criminal investigation, any appropriate state regulatory authority, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or foreign securities and law enforcement authorities. Each of these entities other than foreign securities and law enforcement authorities is subject to the confidentiality requirements set forth in Section 21F(h) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)). The Commission will determine what assurances of confidentiality it deems appropriate in providing such information to foreign securities and law enforcement authorities.
(3) The Commission may make disclosures in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
(b) You may submit information to the Commission anonymously. If you do so, however, you must also do the following:
(1) You must have an attorney represent you in connection with both your submission of information and your claim for an award, and your attorney's name and contact information must be provided to the Commission at the time you submit your information;
(2) You and your attorney must follow the procedures set forth in § 240.21F-9 of this chapter for submitting original information anonymously; and
(3) Before the Commission will pay any award to you, you must disclose your identity to the Commission and your identity must be verified by the Commission as set forth in § 240.21F-10 of this chapter.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70944, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 240.21F-8
Eligibility and forms.
(a) To be eligible for a whistleblower award, you must give the Commission information in the form and manner that the Commission requires. The procedures for submitting information and making a claim for an award are described in § 240.21F-9 through § 240.21F-11 of this chapter. You should read these procedures carefully because you need to follow them in order to be eligible for an award, except that the Commission may, in its sole discretion, waive any of these procedures based upon a showing of extraordinary circumstances.
(b) In addition to any forms required by these rules, the Commission may also require that you provide certain additional information. You may be required to:
(1) Provide explanations and other assistance in order that the staff may evaluate and use the information that you submitted;
(2) Provide all additional information in your possession that is related to the subject matter of your submission in a complete and truthful manner, through follow-up meetings, or in other forms that our staff may agree to;
(3) Provide testimony or other evidence acceptable to the staff relating to whether you are eligible, or otherwise satisfy any of the conditions, for an award; and
(4) Enter into a confidentiality agreement in a form acceptable to the Office of the Whistleblower, covering any non-public information that the Commission provides to you, and including a provision that a violation of the agreement may lead to your ineligibility to receive an award.
(c) You are not eligible to be considered for an award if you do not satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. In addition, you are not eligible if:
(1) You are, or were at the time you acquired the original information provided to the Commission, a member, officer, or employee of the Commission, the Department of Justice, an appropriate regulatory agency, a self-regulatory organization, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or any law enforcement organization;
(2) You are, or were at the time you acquired the original information provided to the Commission, a member, officer, or employee of a foreign government, any political subdivision, department, agency, or instrumentality of a foreign government, or any other foreign financial regulatory authority as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(52) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(52));
(3) You are convicted of a criminal violation that is related to the Commission action or to a related action (as defined in § 240.21F-4 of this chapter) for which you otherwise could receive an award;
(4) You obtained the original information that you gave the Commission through an audit of a company's financial statements, and making a whistleblower submission would be contrary to requirements of Section 10A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78j-a).
(5) You are the spouse, parent, child, or sibling of a member or employee of the Commission, or you reside in the same household as a member or employee of the Commission;
(6) You acquired the original information you gave the Commission from a person:
(i) Who is subject to paragraph (c)(4) of this section, unless the information is not excluded from that person's use, or you are providing the Commission with information about possible violations involving that person; or
(ii) With the intent to evade any provision of these rules; or
(7) The Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction finds that, in your whistleblower submission, your other dealings with the Commission (including your dealings beyond the whistleblower program and covered action), or your dealings with another governmental/SRO entity (as specified in § 240.21F-3(b)(1)) in connection with a related action, you knowingly and willfully made any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or used any false writing or document knowing that it contains any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry with intent to mislead or otherwise hinder the Commission or another governmental/SRO entity, provided that this provision should not apply if the Commission, in its discretion, finds it consistent with the public interest, the promotion of investor protection, and the objectives of the whistleblower program.
(d) The Commission may modify or revise Form TCR and Form WB-APP as provided below.
(1) The Commission will periodically designate on the Commission's web page a Form TCR (Tip, Complaint, or Referral) that individuals seeking to be eligible for an award through the process identified in § 240.21F-9(a)(2) shall use.
(2) The Commission will also periodically designate on the Commission's web page a Form WB-APP for use by individuals seeking to apply for an award in connection with a Commission-covered judicial or administrative action (15 U.S.C. 21F(a)(1)), or a related action (§ 240.21F-3(b)(1)).
(e) The Commission shall have the authority to impose a permanent bar on a claimant as provided below.
(1)
Grounds for a permanent bar.
Submissions or applications that are frivolous or fraudulent, or that would otherwise hinder the effective and efficient operation of the Whistleblower Program may result in the Commission issuing a permanent bar as part of a final order in the course of considering a whistleblower award application from you. If such a bar is issued, the Office of the Whistleblower will not accept or act on any other applications from you. A permanent bar may be issued in the following circumstances:
(i) If you make three or more award applications for Commission actions that the Commission finds to be frivolous or lacking a colorable connection between the tip (or tips) and the Commission actions for which you are seeking awards; or
(ii) If the Commission finds that you have violated paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(2)
General procedures for issuance of a permanent bar.
The Commission will consider whether to issue a permanent bar in connection with an award application from you. In general, the Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition must state that a bar is being recommended, and you will then have an opportunity to respond in writing in accordance with the award processing procedures specified in §§ 240.21F-10(e)(2) and 240.21F-18(b)(3). If the basis for a bar arises or is discovered after the issuance of a Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition, the Office of the Whistleblower shall notify you
and afford you an opportunity to submit a response before the Commission determines whether to issue a bar.
(3)
Notice and opportunity to withdraw frivolous applications.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, before any Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition is issued that may recommend a bar, the Office of the Whistleblower shall advise you of any assessment by that Office that your award application is frivolous (“frivolous application”) or based on a tip that lacks a colorable connection to the action for which you have sought an award (“noncolorable application”). If you withdraw your award application within 30 days of the notification from the Office of the Whistleblower, it will not be considered by the Commission in determining whether to exercise its authority under this paragraph (e).
(ii) The notification and opportunity to withdraw provided for by paragraph (e)(3)(i) are limited to the first three applications submitted by you that are reviewed by the Office of the Whistleblower and preliminarily deemed by that Office to be either a frivolous application or a noncolorable application. After these first three award applications, you will not be provided notice or an opportunity to withdraw any other frivolous or noncolorable applications.
(iii) For purposes of determining whether a bar should be imposed under section (e) of this rule, you will not be permitted to withdraw your application:
(A) After the 30-day period to withdraw has run following notice from the Office of the Whistleblower with respect to the initial three applications assessed by that Office to be frivolous or lacking a colorable connection to the action; or
(B) After a Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition has issued in connection with any other such application.
(4)
Award applications pending before the effective date of paragraph (e).
(i) Paragraph (e) of this section shall apply to all award applications pending as of the effective date of paragraph (e) of this section. But with respect to any such pending award applications, the Office of the Whistleblower shall advise you, before any Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition is issued that may recommend a bar, of any assessment by that Office that the conditions for issuing a bar are satisfied because either:
(A) You submitted an award application prior to the effective date of this section (e) and that application is frivolous or lacking a colorable connection between the tip and the action for which you have sought an award; or
(B) You made a materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation or used a false writing or document in violation of paragraph (c)(7) of this section prior to the effective date of this section (e).
(ii) If, within 30 calendar days of the Office of the Whistleblower providing the foregoing notification, you withdraw the relevant award application(s), the withdrawn award application(s) will not be considered by the Commission in determining whether to exercise its authority under paragraph (e) of this section.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70944, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 54151, Sept. 2, 2022]
§ 240.21F-9
Procedures for submitting original information.
(a) To submit information in a manner that satisfies § 240.21F-2(b) and § 240.21F-2(c) of this chapter you must submit your information to the Commission by any of these methods:
(1) Online, through the Commission's website located at
www.sec.gov
, using the Commission's electronic TCR portal (Tip, Complaint, or Referral);
(2) Mailing or faxing a Form TCR to the SEC Office of the Whistleblower at the mailing address or fax number designated on the SEC's web page for making such submissions; or
(3) By any other such method that the Commission may expressly designate on its website as a mechanism that satisfies §§ 240.21F-2(b) and 240.21F-2(c) of this chapter. For a 30-day period following the Commission's designation of any new forms by placing them on the Commission's website, the Commission shall also continue to
accept submissions made using the prior version of the forms.
(b) Further, to be eligible for an award, you must declare under penalty of perjury at the time you submit your information pursuant to paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section that your information is true and correct to the best of your knowledge and belief.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if you are providing your original information to the Commission anonymously, then your attorney must submit your information on your behalf pursuant to the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Prior to your attorney's submission, you must provide your attorney with a completed Form TCR that you have signed under penalty of perjury. When your attorney makes her submission on your behalf, your attorney will be required to certify that he or she:
(1) Has verified your identity;
(2) Has reviewed your completed and signed Form TCR for completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct and complete to the best of the attorney's knowledge, information and belief;
(3) Has obtained your non-waivable consent to provide the Commission with your original completed and signed Form TCR in the event that the Commission requests it due to concerns that you may have knowingly and willfully made false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or used any false writing or document knowing that the writing or document contains any false fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry; and
(4) Consents to be legally obligated to provide the signed Form TCR within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such request from the Commission.
(d) If you submitted original information in writing to the Commission after July 21, 2010 (the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) but before the effective date of these rules, your submission will be deemed to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. If you were an anonymous whistleblower, however, you must provide your attorney with a completed and signed copy of Form TCR within 60 days of the effective date of these rules, your attorney must retain the signed form in his or her records, and you must provide of copy of the signed form to the Commission staff upon request by Commission staff prior to any payment of an award to you in connection with your submission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you must follow the procedures and conditions for making a claim for a whistleblower award described in §§ 240.21F-10 and 240.21F-11 of this chapter.
(e) You must follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section within 30 days of when you first provide the Commission with original information that you rely upon as a basis for claiming an award. If you fail to do so, then you will be deemed ineligible for an award in connection with that information (even if you later resubmit that information in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Commission shall waive your noncompliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if:
(1) You demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that you complied with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section within 30 days of first obtaining actual or constructive notice about those requirements (or 30 days from the date you retain counsel to represent you in connection with your submission of original information, whichever occurs first); and
(2) The Commission can readily develop an administrative record that unambiguously demonstrates that you would otherwise qualify for an award.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70945, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 240.21F-10
Procedures for making a claim for a whistleblower award in SEC actions that result in monetary sanctions in excess of $1,000,000.
(a) Whenever a Commission action results in monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000, the Office of the Whistleblower will cause to be published on the Commission's Web site a “Notice of Covered Action.” Such Notice will be published subsequent to the
entry of a final judgment or order that alone, or collectively with other judgments or orders previously entered in the Commission action, exceeds $1,000,000; or, in the absence of such judgment or order subsequent to the deposit of monetary sanctions exceeding $1,000,000 into a disgorgement or other fund pursuant to Section 308(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. A claimant will have ninety (90) days from the date of the Notice of Covered Action to file a claim for an award based on that action, or the claim will be barred.
(b) To file a claim for a whistleblower award, you must file Form WB-APP (as specified in § 240.21F-8(d)(2). You must sign this form as the claimant and submit it to the Office of the Whistleblower by mail, email (as a PDF attachment), or fax (or any other manner that the Office permits).
(1) All claim forms, including any attachments, must be received by the Office of the Whistleblower within ninety (90) calendar days of the date of the Notice of Covered Action in order to be considered for an award.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, the time period to file an application for an award based on a Commission settlement agreement covered by § 240.21F-4(d) of this chapter shall be governed exclusively by § 240.21F-11(b)(1) of this chapter if the settlement agreement was entered into after July 21, 2010 but before the effective date of this section as amended in 2020.
(c) If you provided your original information to the Commission anonymously, you must disclose your identity on the Form WB-APP, and your identity must be verified in a form and manner that is acceptable to the Office of the Whistleblower prior to the payment of any award.
(d) Once the time for filing any appeals of the Commission's judicial or administrative action has expired, or where an appeal has been filed, after all appeals in the action have been concluded, one or more staff members designated by the Director of the Division of Enforcement (“Claims Review Staff”) will evaluate all timely whistleblower award claims submitted on Form WB-APP in accordance with the criteria set forth in these rules. In connection with this process, the Office of the Whistleblower may require that you provide additional information relating to your eligibility for an award or satisfaction of any of the conditions for an award, as set forth in § 240.21F-8(b) of this chapter. Following a determination by the Claims Review Staff (and an opportunity for the Commission to review that determination), the Office of the Whistleblower will send you a Preliminary Determination setting forth a preliminary assessment as to whether the claim should be allowed or denied and, if allowed, setting forth the proposed award dollar and percentage amount, and the grounds therefore.
(e) You may contest the Preliminary Determination made by the Claims Review Staff by submitting a written response to the Office of the Whistleblower setting forth the grounds for your objection to either the denial of an award or the proposed amount of an award. The response must be in the form and manner that the Office of the Whistleblower shall require. You may also include documentation or other evidentiary support for the grounds advanced in your response. In applying the award factors and standards specified in § 240.21F-6, and determining the award dollar and percentage amounts set forth in the Preliminary Determination, the award factors may be considered by the SEC staff and the Commission in dollar terms, percentage terms or some combination thereof, subject to the limitations imposed by § 240.21F-6(d). Should you choose to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may set forth the reasons for your objection to the proposed amount of an award, including the grounds therefore, in dollar terms, percentage terms or some combination thereof.
(1) Before determining whether to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may:
(i) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request that the Office of the Whistleblower make available for your review the materials from among those set forth in § 240.21F-12(a) that formed the basis of the Claims Review Staff's Preliminary Determination.
(ii) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request a meeting with the Office of the Whistleblower; however, such meetings are not required, and the office may in its sole discretion decline the request.
(2) If you decide to contest the Preliminary Determination, you must submit your written response and supporting materials within 60 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, or if a request to review materials is made pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then within 60 calendar days of the Office of the Whistleblower making those materials available for your review.
(f) If you fail to submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then the Preliminary Determination will become the Final Order of the Commission (except where the Preliminary Determination recommended an award, in which case the Preliminary Determination will be deemed a Proposed Final Determination for purposes of paragraph (h) of this section). Your failure to submit a timely response contesting a Preliminary Determination will constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies, and you will be prohibited from pursuing an appeal pursuant to § 240.21F-13 of this chapter.
(g) If you submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then the Claims Review Staff will consider the issues and grounds advanced in your response, along with any supporting documentation you provided, and will make its Proposed Final Determination.
(h) The Office of the Whistleblower will then notify the Commission of each Proposed Final Determination. Within thirty 30 days thereafter, any Commissioner may request that the Proposed Final Determination be reviewed by the Commission. If no Commissioner requests such a review within the 30-day period, then the Proposed Final Determination will become the Final Order of the Commission. In the event a Commissioner requests a review, the Commission will review the record that the staff relied upon in making its determinations, including your previous submissions to the Office of the Whistleblower, and issue its Final Order.
(i) The Office of the Whistleblower will provide you with the Final Order of the Commission.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70945, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 54151, Sept. 2, 2022]
§ 240.21F-11
Procedures for determining awards based upon a related action.
(a) If you are eligible to receive an award following a Commission action that results in monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000, you also may be eligible to receive an award in connection with a related action (as defined in § 240.21F-3(b)).
(b) You must also use Form WB-APP (as specified in § 240.21F-8(d)(2)) to submit a claim for an award in a potential related action. You must sign this form as the claimant and submit it to the Office of the Whistleblower by mail, email (as a PDF attachment), or fax (or any other manner that the Office permits) as follows:
(1) If a final order imposing monetary sanctions has been entered in a potential related action at the time you submit your claim for an award in connection with a Commission action, you must submit your claim for an award in that related action on the same Form WB-APP that you use for the Commission action. For purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a final order imposing monetary sanctions is entered on the date of a court or administrative order imposing the monetary sanctions; however, with respect to any agreement covered by § 240.21F-4(d) of this chapter (such as a deferred prosecution agreement or a nonprosecution agreement entered by the Department of Justice), the Commission will deem the date of the entry of the final order to be the later of either:
(i) The effective date of this section as amended in 2020; or
(ii) The date of the earliest public availability of the instrument reflecting the arrangement if evidenced by a press release or similar dated publication notice (or otherwise, the date of the last signature necessary for the agreement).
(2) If a final order imposing monetary sanctions in a potential related action has not been entered at the time you submit your claim for an award in connection with a Commission action, you must submit your claim on Form WB-APP within ninety (90) days of the issuance of a final order imposing sanctions in the potential related action.
(c) The Office of the Whistleblower may request additional information from you in connection with your claim for an award in a related action to demonstrate that you directly (or through the Commission) voluntarily provided the governmental/SRO entity (as specified in § 240.21F-3(b)(1)) the same original information that led to the Commission's successful covered action, and that this information led to the successful enforcement of the related action. Further, the Office of the Whistleblower, in its discretion, may seek assistance and confirmation from the governmental/SRO entity in making an award determination. Additionally, if your related-action award application might implicate a second whistleblower program, the Office of the Whistleblower is authorized to request information from you or to contact any authority or entity responsible for administering that other program, including disclosing the whistleblower's identity if necessary, to ensure compliance with the terms of § 240.21F-3(b)(3).
(d) Once the time for filing any appeals of the final judgment or order in a potential related action has expired, or if an appeal has been filed, after all appeals in the action have been concluded, the Claims Review Staff (as specified in § 240.21F-10(d) of this chapter) will evaluate all timely whistleblower award claims submitted on Form WB-APP in connection with the related action. The evaluation will be undertaken pursuant to the criteria set forth in these rules. In connection with this process, the Office of the Whistleblower may require that you provide additional information relating to your eligibility for an award or satisfaction of any of the conditions for an award, as set forth in § 240.21F-(8)(b) of this chapter. Following a determination by the Claims Review Staff (and an opportunity for the Commission to review that determination), the Office of the Whistleblower will send you a Preliminary Determination setting forth a preliminary assessment as to whether the claim should be allowed or denied and, if allowed, setting forth the proposed award percentage amount.
(e) You may contest the Preliminary Determination made by the Claims Review Staff by submitting a written response to the Office of the Whistleblower setting forth the grounds for your objection to either the denial of an award or the proposed amount of an award. The response must be in the form and manner that the Office of the Whistleblower shall require. You may also include documentation or other evidentiary support for the grounds advanced in your response. In applying the award factors and standards specified in § 240.21F-6, and determining the award dollar and percentage amounts set forth in the Preliminary Determination, the award factors may be considered by the SEC staff and the Commission in dollar terms, percentage terms or some combination thereof, subject to the limitations imposed by § 240.21F-6(d). Should you choose to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may set forth the reasons for your objection to the proposed amount of an award, including the grounds therefore, in dollar terms, percentage terms or some combination thereof.
(1) Before determining whether to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may:
(i) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request that the Office of the Whistleblower make available for your review the materials from among those set forth in § 240.21F-12(a) that formed the basis of the Claims Review Staff's Preliminary Determination.
(ii) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request a meeting with the Office of the Whistleblower; however, such meetings are not required, and the office may in its sole discretion decline the request.
(2) If you decide to contest the Preliminary Determination, you must submit your written response and supporting materials within 60 calendar
days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, or if a request to review materials is made pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then within 60 calendar days of the Office of the Whistleblower making those materials available for your review.
(f) If you fail to submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then the Preliminary Determination will become the Final Order of the Commission (except where the Preliminary Determination recommended an award, in which case the Preliminary Determination will be deemed a Proposed Final Determination for purposes of paragraph (h) of this section). Your failure to submit a timely response contesting a Preliminary Determination will constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies, and you will be prohibited from pursuing an appeal pursuant to § 240.21F-13 of this chapter.
(g) If you submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then the Claims Review Staff will consider the issues and grounds that you advanced in your response, along with any supporting documentation you provided, and will make its Proposed Final Determination.
(h) The Office of the Whistleblower will notify the Commission of each Proposed Final Determination. Within thirty 30 days thereafter, any Commissioner may request that the Proposed Final Determination be reviewed by the Commission. If no Commissioner requests such a review within the 30-day period, then the Proposed Final Determination will become the Final Order of the Commission. In the event a Commissioner requests a review, the Commission will review the record that the staff relied upon in making its determinations, including your previous submissions to the Office of the Whistleblower, and issue its Final Order.
(i) The Office of the Whistleblower will provide you with the Final Order of the Commission.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70946, Nov. 5, 2020; 87 FR 54151, Sept. 2, 2022]
§ 240.21F-12
Materials that may form the basis of an award determination and that may comprise the record on appeal.
(a) The following items constitute the materials that the Commission, the Claims Review Staff (as specified in § 240.21F-10(d) of this chapter), and the Office of the Whistleblower may rely upon to make an award determination pursuant to §§ 240.21F-10, 240.21F-11, and 240.21F-18 of this chapter:
(1) Any publicly available materials from the covered action or related action, including:
(i) The complaint, notice of hearing, answers and any amendments thereto;
(ii) The final judgment, consent order, or final administrative order;
(iii) Any transcripts of the proceedings, including any exhibits;
(iv) Any items that appear on the docket; and
(v) Any appellate decisions or orders.
(2) The whistleblower's Form TCR, including attachments, and other related materials provided by the whistleblower to assist the Commission with the investigation or examination;
(3) The whistleblower's Form WB-APP, including attachments, any supplemental materials submitted by the whistleblower before the deadline to file a claim for a whistleblower award for the relevant Notice of Covered Action, and any other materials timely submitted by the whistleblower in response either
(i) To a request from the Office of the Whistleblower or the Commission; or
(ii) To the Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition that was provided to the claimant;
(4) Sworn declarations (including attachments) from the Commission staff regarding any matters relevant to the award determination;
(5) With respect to an award claim involving a related action, any statements or other information that the entity provides or identifies in connection with an award determination, provided the entity has authorized the Commission to share the information with the claimant. (Neither the Commission nor the Claims Review Staff may rely upon information that the entity has not authorized the Commission to share with the claimant); and
(6) Any other documents or materials from third parties (including sworn declarations) that are received or obtained by the Office of the Whistleblower to resolve the claimant's award application, including information related to the claimant's eligibility. (The Commission, the Claims Review Staff, and the Office of the Whistleblower may not rely upon information that the third party has not authorized the Commission to share with the claimant.)
(b) These rules do not entitle claimants to obtain from the Commission any materials (including any pre-decisional or internal deliberative process materials that are prepared exclusively to assist the Commission in deciding the claim) other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Moreover, the Office of the Whistleblower may make redactions as necessary to comply with any statutory restrictions, to protect the Commission's law enforcement and regulatory functions, and to comply with requests for confidential treatment from other law enforcement and regulatory authorities. The Office of the Whistleblower may also require you to sign a confidentiality agreement, as set forth in § 240.21F-(8)(b)(4) of this chapter, before providing these materials.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70947, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 240.21F-13
Appeals.
(a) Section 21F of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-6) commits determinations of whether, to whom, and in what amount to make awards to the Commission's discretion. A determination of whether or to whom to make an award may be appealed within 30 days after the Commission issues its final decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, or to the circuit where the aggrieved person resides or has his principal place of business. Where the Commission makes an award based on the factors set forth in § 240.21F-6 of this chapter of not less than 10 percent and not more than 30 percent of the monetary sanctions collected in the Commission or related action, the Commission's determination regarding the amount of an award (including the allocation of an award as between multiple whistleblowers, and any factual findings, legal conclusions, policy judgments, or discretionary assessments involving the Commission's consideration of the factors in § 240.21F-6 of this chapter) is not appealable.
(b) The record on appeal shall consist of the Final Order, any materials that were considered by the Commission in issuing the Final Order, and any materials that were part of the claims process leading from the Notice of Covered Action to the Final Order (including, but not limited to, the Notice of Covered Action, whistleblower award applications filed by the claimant, the Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition, materials that were considered by the Claims Review Staff in issuing the Preliminary Determination or that were provided to the claimant by the Office of the Whistleblower in connection with a Preliminary Summary Disposition, and materials that were timely submitted by the claimant in response to the Preliminary Determination or Preliminary Summary Disposition). The record on appeal shall not include any pre-decisional or internal deliberative process materials that are prepared exclusively to assist the Commission and the Claims Review Staff (as specified in § 240.21F-10(d) of this chapter) in deciding the claim (including the staff's Proposed Final Determination or the Office of the Whistleblower's Proposed Final Summary Disposition, or any Draft Preliminary Determination or Draft Summary Disposition that were provided to the Commission for review). When more than one claimant has sought an award based on a single Notice of Covered Action, the Commission may exclude from the record on appeal any materials that do not relate directly to the claimant who is seeking judicial review.
[76 FR 34363, June 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 70947, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 240.21F-14
Procedures applicable to the payment of awards.
(a) Any award made pursuant to these rules will be paid from the Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Protection Fund (the “Fund”).
(b) A recipient of a whistleblower award is entitled to payment on the award only to the extent that a monetary sanction is collected in the Commission action or in a related action upon which the award is based.
(c) Payment of a whistleblower award for a monetary sanction collected in a Commission action or related action shall be made following the later of:
(1) The date on which the monetary sanction is collected; or
(2) The completion of the appeals process for all whistleblower award claims arising from:
(i) The Notice of Covered Action, in the case of any payment of an award for a monetary sanction collected in a Commission action; or
(ii) The related action, in the case of any payment of an award for a monetary sanction collected in a related action.
(d) If there are insufficient amounts available in the Fund to pay the entire amount of an award payment within a reasonable period of time from the time for payment specified by paragraph (c) of this section, then subject to the following terms, the balance of the payment shall be paid when amounts become available in the Fund, as follows:
(1) Where multiple whistleblowers are owed payments from the Fund based on awards that do not arise from the same Notice of Covered Action (or related action), priority in making these payments will be determined based upon the date that the collections for which the whistleblowers are owed payments occurred. If two or more of these collections occur on the same date, those whistleblowers owed payments based on these collections will be paid on a pro rata basis until sufficient amounts become available in the Fund to pay their entire payments.
(2) Where multiple whistleblowers are owed payments from the Fund based on awards that arise from the same Notice of Covered Action (or related action), they will share the same payment priority and will be paid on a pro rata basis until sufficient amounts become available in the Fund to pay their entire payments.
§ 240.21F-15
No amnesty.
The Securities Whistleblower Incentives and Protection provisions do not provide amnesty to individuals who provide information to the Commission. The fact that you may become a whistleblower and assist in Commission investigations and enforcement actions does not preclude the Commission from bringing an action against you based upon your own conduct in connection with violations of the Federal securities laws. If such an action is determined to be appropriate, however, the Commission will take your cooperation into consideration in accordance with its Policy Statement Concerning Cooperation by Individuals in Investigations and Related Enforcement Actions (17 CFR 202.12).
§ 240.21F-16
Awards to whistleblowers who engage in culpable conduct.
In determining whether the required $1,000,000 threshold has been satisfied (this threshold is further explained in § 240.21F-10 of this chapter) for purposes of making any award, the Commission will not take into account any monetary sanctions that the whistleblower is ordered to pay, or that are ordered against any entity whose liability is based substantially on conduct that the whistleblower directed, planned, or initiated. Similarly, if the Commission determines that a whistleblower is eligible for an award, any amounts that the whistleblower or such an entity pay in sanctions as a result of the action or related actions will not be included within the calculation of the amounts collected for purposes of making payments.
§ 240.21F-17
Staff communications with individuals reporting possible securities law violations.
(a) No person may take any action to impede an individual from communicating directly with the Commission staff about a possible securities law violation, including enforcing, or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than agreements dealing with information covered by § 240.21F-4(b)(4)(i) and § 240.21F-4(b)(4)(ii) of this chapter related to the legal representation of a client) with respect to such communications.
(b) If you are a director, officer, member, agent, or employee of an entity that has counsel, and you have initiated communication with the Commission relating to a possible securities law violation, the staff is authorized to communicate directly with you regarding the possible securities law violation without seeking the consent of the entity's counsel.
§ 240.21F-18
Summary disposition.
(a) Notwithstanding the procedures specified in § 240.21F-10(d) through (g) and in § 240.21F-11(d) through (g) of this chapter, the Office of the Whistleblower may determine that an award application that meets any of the following conditions for denial shall be resolved through the summary disposition process described further in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) You submitted an untimely award application;
(2) You did not comply with the requirements of § 240.21F-9 of this chapter when submitting the tip upon which your award claim is based, and you otherwise are not eligible for a waiver under either § 240.21F-9(e) or the Commission's other waiver authorities;
(3) The information that you submitted was never provided to or used by the staff handling the covered action or the underlying investigation (or examination), and those staff members otherwise had no contact with you;
(4) You did not comply with § 240.21F-8(b) of this chapter;
(5) You failed to specify in the award application the submission pursuant to § 240.21F-9(a) of this chapter upon which your claim to an award is based;
(6) Your application does not raise any novel or important legal or policy questions.
(b) The following procedures shall apply to any award application designated for summary disposition:
(1) The Office of the Whistleblower shall issue a Preliminary Summary Disposition that notifies you that your award application has been designated for resolution through the summary disposition process. The Preliminary Summary Disposition shall also state that the Office has preliminarily determined to recommend that the Commission deny the award application and identify the basis for the denial.
(2) Prior to issuing the Preliminary Summary Disposition, the Office of the Whistleblower shall prepare a staff declaration that sets forth any pertinent facts regarding the Office's recommendation to deny your application. At the same time that it provides you with the Preliminary Summary Disposition, the Office of the Whistleblower shall, in its sole discretion, either
(i) Provide you with the staff declaration; or
(ii) Notify you that a staff declaration has been prepared and advise you that you may obtain the declaration only if within fifteen (15) calendar days you sign and complete a confidentiality agreement in a form and manner acceptable to the Office of the Whistleblower pursuant to § 240.21F-8(b)(4) of this chapter. If you fail to return the signed confidentiality agreement within fifteen (15) calendar days, you will be deemed to have waived your ability to receive the staff declaration.
(3) You may reply to the Preliminary Summary Disposition by submitting a response to the Office of the Whistleblower within thirty (30) calendar days of the later of:
(i) The date of the Preliminary Summary Disposition, or
(ii) The date that the Office of the Whistleblower sends the staff declaration to you following your timely return of a signed confidentiality agreement. The response must identify the grounds for your objection to the denial (or in the case of item (a)(5) of this section, correct the defect). The response must be in the form and manner that the Office of the Whistleblower shall require. You may include documentation or other evidentiary support for the grounds advanced in your response.
(4) If you fail to submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Preliminary Summary Disposition will become the Final Order of the Commission. Your failure to submit a timely written response will constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies.
(5) If you submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Office of the Whistleblower will consider the issues and grounds advanced in your response, along with any supporting documentation that you provided, and will prepare a Proposed Final Summary Disposition. The Office of the Whistleblower may supplement the administrative record as appropriate. (This provision does not prevent the Office of the Whistleblower from determining that, based on your written response, the award claim is no longer appropriate for summary disposition and that it should be resolved through the claims adjudication procedures specified in either §§ 240.21F-10 or 240.21F-11 of this chapter).
(6) The Office of the Whistleblower will then notify the Commission of the Proposed Final Summary Disposition. Within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter, any Commissioner may request that the Proposed Final Summary Disposition be reviewed by the Commission. If no Commissioner requests such a review within the 30-day period, then the Proposed Final Summary Disposition will become the Final Order of the Commission. In the event a Commissioner requests a review, the Commission will consider the award application and issue a Final Order.
(7) The Office of the Whistleblower will provide you with the Final Order of the Commission.
(c) In considering an award determination pursuant to this rule, the Office of the Whistleblower and the Commission may rely upon the items specified in § 240.21F-12(a) of this chapter. Further, § 240.21F-12(b) of this chapter shall apply to summary dispositions.
[85 FR 70947, Nov. 5, 2020]

# Inspection and Publication of Information Filed Under the Act
§ 240.24b-1
Documents to be kept public by exchanges.
Upon action of the Commission granting an exchange's application for registration or exemption, the exchange shall make available to public inspection at its offices during reasonable office hours a copy of the statement and exhibits filed with the Commission (including any amendments thereto) except those portions thereof to the disclosure of which the exchange shall have filed objection pursuant to § 240.24b-2 which objection shall not have been overruled by the Commission pursuant to section 24(b) of the Act.
(Sec. 24, 48 Stat. 901; 15 U.S.C. 78x)

# Cross Reference:
For regulations relating to registration and exemption of exchanges, see §§ 240.6a-1 to 240.6a-3.
[13 FR 8214, Dec. 22, 1948]
§ 240.24b-2
Nondisclosure of information filed with the Commission and with any exchange.
Except as otherwise provided in this rule, confidential treatment requests shall be submitted in paper format only, whether or not the filer is required to submit a filing in electronic format.
(a) Any person filing any registration statement, report, application, statement, correspondence, notice or other document (herein referred to as the material filed) pursuant to the Act may make written objection to the public disclosure of any information contained therein in accordance with the procedure set forth below. The procedure provided in this rule shall be the exclusive means of requesting confidential treatment of information required to be filed under the Act.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k) of this section, the person shall omit from material filed the portion thereof which it desires to keep undisclosed (hereinafter called the confidential portion). In lieu thereof, it shall indicate at the appropriate place in the material filed that the confidential portion has been so omitted and filed separately with the Commission. The person shall file with the copies of the material filed with the Commission:
(1) One copy of the confidential portion, marked “Confidential Treatment,” of the material filed with the Commission. The copy shall contain an appropriate identification of the item or other requirement involved and, notwithstanding that the confidential portion does not constitute the whole of the answer, the entire answer thereto; except that in the case where the
confidential portion is part of a financial statement or schedule, only the particular financial statement or schedule need be included. The copy of the confidential portion shall be in the same form as the remainder of the material filed;
(2) An application making objection to the disclosure of the confidential portion. Such application shall be on a sheet or sheets separate from the confidential portion, and shall contain:
(i) An identification of the portion;
(ii) A statement of the grounds of objection referring to, and containing an analysis of, the applicable exemption(s) from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)), and a justification of the period of time for which confidential treatment is sought;
(iii) A written consent to the furnishing of the confidential portion to other government agencies, offices or bodies and to the Congress; and
(iv) The name of each exchange, if any, with which the material is filed.
(3) The copy of the confidential portion and the application filed in accordance with this paragraph (b) shall be enclosed in a separate envelope marked “Confidential Treatment” and addressed to The Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549.
(c) Pending a determination as to the objection filed the material for which confidential treatment has been applied will not be made available to the public.
(d)(1) If it is determined that the objection should be sustained, a notation to that effect will be made at the appropriate place in the material filed. Such a determination will not preclude reconsideration whenever appropriate, such as upon receipt of any subsequent request under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and, if appropriate, revocation of the confidential status of all or a portion of the information in question. Where an initial determination has been made under this rule to sustain objections to disclosure, the Commission will attempt to give the person requesting confidential treatment advance notice, wherever possible, if confidential treatment is revoked.
(2) In any case where an objection to disclosure has been disallowed or where a prior grant of confidential treatment has been revoked, the person who requested such treatment will be so informed by registered or certified mail to the person or his agent for service. Pursuant to § 201.431 of this chapter, persons making objections to disclosure may petition the Commission for review of a determination by the Division disallowing objections or revoking confidential treatment.
(e) The confidential portion shall be made available to the public at the time and according to the conditions specified in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section:
(1) Upon the lapse of five days after the dispatch of notice by registered or certified mail of a determination disallowing an objection, if prior to the lapse of such five days the person shall not have communicated to the Secretary of the Commission his intention to seek review by the Commission under § 201.431 of this chapter of the determination made by the Division; or
(2) If such a petition for review shall have been filed under § 201.431 of this chapter, upon final disposition thereof adverse to the petitioner.
(f) If the confidential portion is made available to the public, one copy thereof shall be attached to each copy of the material filed with the Commission and with each exchange.
(g) An SCI entity (as defined in § 242.1000 of this chapter) shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format on Form SCI pursuant to Regulation SCI, § 242.1000
et. seq.,
and, in lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, may request confidential treatment of all information provided on Form SCI by completing Section IV of Form SCI.
(h) A security-based swap data repository shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format pursuant to section 13(n) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and the rules and regulations thereunder. In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, a security-based swap data repository shall request confidential treatment electronically for any material filed in
electronic format pursuant to section 13(n) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(i) An institutional investment manager shall omit the confidential portion from the material publicly filed in electronic format pursuant to section 13(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) and the rules and regulations in this part and the instructions to Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter). The institutional investment manager shall indicate in the appropriate place in the material publicly filed that the confidential portion has been so omitted and filed separately with the Commission. In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, an institutional investment manager shall request confidential treatment electronically pursuant to section 13(f) (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)), the rules and regulations in this part, and the instructions to Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter).
(j)(1) A broker or dealer shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format pursuant to §§ 240.17a-5(d), 240.17a-5(k), 240.17a-12, or 240.17h-2T of this chapter. In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, a broker or dealer shall request confidential treatment electronically for any material filed in electronic format pursuant to pursuant to §§ 240.17a-5(d), 240.17a-5(k), 240.17a-12, or 240.17h-2T, of this chapter.
(2) A security-based swap dealer shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format pursuant to § 240.18a-7(c) of this chapter. In lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, a security-based swap dealer shall request confidential treatment electronically for any material filed in electronic format pursuant to § 240.18a-7(c) of this chapter.
(k) An entity shall not omit the confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format on Form CA-1 pursuant to § 240.17ab2-1, and, in lieu of the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section, may request confidential treatment of information provided on Form CA-1 by completing Section X of Form CA-1.
[41 FR 20578, May 19, 1976, as amended at 58 FR 14685, Mar. 18, 1993; 60 FR 32825, June 23, 1995; 60 FR 47692, Sept. 14, 1995; 61 FR 30404, June 14, 1996; 79 FR 72436, Dec. 5, 2014; 80 FR 14556, Mar. 19, 2015; 84 FR 50739, Sept. 26, 2019; 87 FR 38964, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 78808, Dec. 22, 2022; 90 FR 7371, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 240.24b-3
Information filed by issuers and others under sections 12, 13, 14, and 16.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section and in § 240.17a-6, each exchange shall keep available to the public under reasonable regulations as to the manner of inspection, during reasonable office hours, all information regarding a security registered on such exchange which is filed with it pursuant to section 12, 13, 14, or 16, or any rules or regulations thereunder. This requirement shall not apply to any information to the disclosure of which objection has been filed pursuant to § 240.24b-2, which objection shall not have been overruled by the Commission pursuant to section 24(b). The making of such information available pursuant to this section shall not be deemed a representation by any exchange as to the accuracy, completeness, or genuineness thereof.
(b) In the case of an application for registration of a security pursuant to section 12 an exchange may delay making available the information contained therein until it has certified to the Commission its approval of such security for listing and registration.
(Sec. 24, 48 Stat. 901, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 78x)
[16 FR 3109, Apr. 10, 1951]
§ 240.24c-1
Access to nonpublic information.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term “nonpublic information” means records, as defined in Section 24(a) of the Act, and other information in the Commission's possession, which are not available for public inspection and copying.
(b) The Commission may, in its discretion and upon a showing that such information is needed, provide nonpublic information in its possession to
any of the following persons if the person receiving such nonpublic information provides such assurances of confidentiality as the Commission deems appropriate:
(1) A federal, state, local or foreign government or any political subdivision, authority, agency or instrumentality of such government;
(2) A self-regulatory organization as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Act, or any similar organization empowered with self-regulatory responsibilities under the federal securities laws (as defined in Section 3(a)(47) of the Act), the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
), or any substantially equivalent foreign statute or regulation;
(3) A foreign financial regulatory authority as defined in Section 3(a)(51) of the Act;
(4) The Securities Investor Protection Corporation or any trustee or counsel for a trustee appointed pursuant to Section 5(b) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970;
(5) A trustee in bankruptcy;
(6) A trustee, receiver, master, special counsel or other person that is appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of an agreement between the parties in connection with litigation or an administrative proceeding involving allegations of violations of the securities laws (as defined in Section 3(a)(47) of the Act) or the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 CFR part 201, or otherwise, where such trustee, receiver, master, special counsel or other person is specifically designated to perform particular functions with respect to, or as a result of, the litigation or proceeding or in connection with the administration and enforcement by the Commission of the federal securities laws or the Commission's Rules of Practice;
(7) A bar association, state accountancy board or other federal, state, local or foreign licensing or oversight authority, or a professional association or self-regulatory authority to the extent that it performs similar functions; or
(8) A duly authorized agent, employee or representative of any of the above persons.
(c) Nothing contained in this section shall affect:
(1) The Commission's authority or discretion to provide or refuse to provide access to, or copies of, nonpublic information in its possession in accordance with such other authority or discretion as the Commission possesses by statute, rule or regulation; or
(2) The Commission's responsibilities under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401-22) as limited by section 21(h) of the Act.
[58 FR 52419, Oct. 8, 1993]
§ 240.31
Section 31 transaction fees.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)
Assessment charge
means the amount owed by a covered SRO for a covered round turn transaction pursuant to section 31(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee(d)).
(2)
Billing period
means, for a single calendar year:
(i) January 1 through August 31 (“billing period 1”); or
(ii) September 1 through December 31 (“billing period 2”).
(3)
Charge date
means the date on which a covered sale or covered round turn transaction occurs for purposes of determining the liability of a covered SRO pursuant to section 31 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee). The charge date is:
(i) The settlement date, with respect to any covered sale (other than a covered sale resulting from the exercise of an option settled by physical delivery or from the maturation of a security future settled by physical delivery) or covered round turn transaction that a covered SRO is required to report to the Commission based on data that the covered SRO receives from a designated clearing agency;
(ii) The exercise date, with respect to a covered sale resulting from the exercise of an option settled by physical delivery;
(iii) The maturity date, with respect to a covered sale resulting from the maturation of a security future settled by physical delivery; and
(iv) The trade date, with respect to all other covered sales and covered round turn transactions.
(4)
Covered association
means any national securities association by or
through any member of which covered sales or covered round turn transactions occur otherwise than on a national securities exchange.
(5)
Covered exchange
means any national securities exchange on which covered sales or covered round turn transactions occur.
(6)
Covered sale
means a sale of a security, other than an exempt sale or a sale of a security future, occurring on a national securities exchange or by or through any member of a national securities association otherwise than on a national securities exchange.
(7)
Covered round turn transaction
means a round turn transaction in a security future, other than a round turn transaction in a future on a narrow-based security index, occurring on a national securities exchange or by or through a member of a national securities association otherwise than on a national securities exchange.
(8)
Covered SRO
means a covered exchange or covered association.
(9)
Designated clearing agency
means a clearing agency registered under section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) that clears and settles covered sales or covered round turn transactions.
(10)
Due date
means:
(i) March 15, with respect to the amounts owed by covered SROs under section 31 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee) for covered sales and covered round turn transactions having a charge date in billing period 2; and
(ii) September 30, with respect to the amounts owed by covered SROs under section 31 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee) for covered sales and covered round turn transactions having a charge date in billing period 1.
(11)
Exempt sale
means:
(i) Any sale of a security offered pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (except a sale of a put or call option issued by the Options Clearing Corporation) or offered in accordance with an exemption from registration afforded by section 3(a) or 3(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c(a) or 77c(b)), or a rule thereunder;
(ii) Any sale of a security by an issuer not involving any public offering within the meaning of section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(2));
(iii) Any sale of a security pursuant to and in consummation of a tender or exchange offer;
(iv) Any sale of a security upon the exercise of a warrant or right (except a put or call), or upon the conversion of a convertible security;
(v) Any sale of a security that is executed outside the United States and is not reported, or required to be reported, to a transaction reporting association as defined in § 242.600 of this chapter and any approved plan filed thereunder;
(vi) Any sale of an option on a security index (including both a narrow-based security index and a non-narrow-based security index);
(vii) Any sale of a bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness; and
(viii) Any recognized riskless principal sale.
(12)
Fee rate
means the fee rate applicable to covered sales under section 31(b) or (c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee(b) or (c)), as adjusted from time to time by the Commission pursuant to section 31(j) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee(j)).
(13)
Narrow-based security index
means the same as in section 3(a)(55)(B) and (C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)(B) and (C)).
(14)
Recognized riskless principal sale
means a sale of a security where all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) A broker-dealer receives from a customer an order to buy (sell) a security;
(ii) The broker-dealer engages in two contemporaneous offsetting transactions as principal, one in which the broker-dealer buys (sells) the security from (to) a third party and the other in which the broker-dealer sells (buys) the security to (from) the customer; and
(iii) The Commission, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)), has approved a proposed rule change submitted by the covered SRO on which the second of the two contemporaneous offsetting transactions occurs that permits that transaction to be reported as riskless.
(15)
Round turn transaction in a security future
means one purchase and one sale of a contract of sale for future delivery.
(16)
Physical delivery exchange-traded option
means a securities option that is listed and registered on a national securities exchange and settled by the physical delivery of the underlying securities.
(17)
Section 31 bill
means the bill sent by the Commission to a covered SRO pursuant to section 31 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee) showing the total amount due from the covered SRO for the billing period, as calculated by the Commission based on the data submitted by the covered SRO in its Form R31 (§ 249.11 of this chapter) submissions for the months of the billing period.
(18)
Trade reporting system
means an automated facility operated by a covered SRO used to collect or compare trade data.
(b)
Reporting of covered sales and covered round turn transactions.
(1) Each covered SRO shall submit a completed Form R31 (§ 249.11 of this chapter) to the Commission within ten business days after the end of each month.
(2) A covered exchange shall provide on Form R31 the following data on covered sales and covered round turn transactions occurring on that exchange and having a charge date in that month:
(i) The aggregate dollar amount of covered sales that it reported to a designated clearing agency, as reflected in the data provided by the designated clearing agency;
(ii) The aggregate dollar amount of covered sales resulting from the exercise of physical delivery exchange-traded options or from matured security futures, as reflected in the data provided by a designated clearing agency that clears and settles options or security futures;
(iii) The aggregate dollar amount of covered sales that it captured in a trade reporting system but did not report to a designated clearing agency;
(iv) The aggregate dollar amount of covered sales that it neither captured in a trade reporting system nor reported to a designated clearing agency; and
(v) The total number of covered round turn transactions that it reported to a designated clearing agency, as reflected in the data provided by the designated clearing agency.
(3) A covered association shall provide on Form R31 the following data on covered sales and covered round turn transactions occurring by or through any member of such association otherwise than on a national securities exchange and having a charge date in that month:
(i) The aggregate dollar amount of covered sales that it captured in a trade reporting system;
(ii) The aggregate dollar amount of covered sales that it did not capture in a trade reporting system; and
(iii) The total number of covered round turn transactions that it reported to a designated clearing agency, as reflected in the data provided by the designated clearing agency.
(4)
Duties of designated clearing agency.
(i) A designated clearing agency shall provide a covered SRO, upon request, the data in its possession needed by the covered SRO to complete Part I of Form R31 (§ 249.11 of this chapter).
(ii) If a covered exchange trades physical delivery exchange-traded options or security futures that settle by physical delivery of the underlying securities, the designated clearing agency that clears and settles such transactions shall provide that covered exchange with the data in its possession relating to the covered sales resulting from the exercise of such options or from the matured security futures. If, during a particular month, the designated clearing agency cannot determine the covered exchange on which the options or security futures originally were traded, the designated clearing agency shall assign covered sales resulting from exercises or maturations as follows. To provide Form R31 data to the covered exchange for a particular month, the designated clearing agency shall:
(A) Calculate the aggregate dollar amount of all covered sales in the previous calendar month resulting from exercises and maturations, respectively, occurring on all covered exchanges for which it clears and settles transactions;
(B) Calculate, for the previous calendar month, the aggregate dollar amount of covered sales of physical delivery exchange-traded options occurring on each covered exchange for
which it clears and settles transactions, and the aggregate dollar amount of covered sales of physical delivery exchange-traded options occurring on all such exchanges collectively;
(C) Calculate, for the previous calendar month, the total number of covered round turn transactions in security futures that settle by physical delivery that occurred on each covered exchange for which it clears and settles transactions, and the total number of covered round turn transactions in security futures that settle by physical delivery that occurred on all such exchanges collectively;
(D) Determine for the previous calendar month each covered exchange's percentage of the total dollar volume of physical delivery exchange-traded options (“exercise percentage”) and each covered exchange's percentage of the total number of covered round turn transactions in security futures that settle by physical delivery (“maturation percentage”); and
(E) In the current month, assign to each covered exchange for which it clears and settles covered sales the exercise percentage of the aggregate dollar amount of covered sales on all covered exchanges resulting from the exercise of physical delivery exchange-traded options and the maturation percentage of all covered sales on all covered exchanges resulting from the maturation of security futures that settle by physical delivery.
(5) A covered SRO shall provide in Part I of Form R31 only the data supplied to it by a designated clearing agency.
(c)
Calculation and billing of section 31 fees.
(1) The amount due from a covered SRO for a billing period, as reflected in its Section 31 bill, shall be the sum of the monthly amounts due for each month in the billing period.
(2) The monthly amount due from a covered SRO shall equal:
(i) The aggregate dollar amount of its covered sales that have a charge date in that month, times the fee rate; plus
(ii) The total number of its covered round turn transactions that have a charge date in that month, times the assessment charge.
(3) By the due date, each covered SRO shall pay the Commission, either directly or through a designated clearing agency acting as agent, the entire amount due for the billing period, as reflected in its Section 31 bill.
[69 FR 41078, July 7, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 37619, June 29, 2005]
§ 240.31T
Temporary rule regarding fiscal year 2004.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(i)
FY2004 adjustment amount
means the FY2004 recalculated amount minus the FY2004 prepayment amount.
(ii)
FY2004 prepayment amount
means the total dollar amount of fees and assessments paid by a covered SRO pursuant to the March 15, 2004, due date for covered sales and covered round turn transactions having a charge date between September 1, 2003, and December 31, 2003, inclusive.
(iii)
FY2004 recalculated amount
means the total dollar amount of fees and assessments owed by a covered SRO for covered sales and covered round turn transactions having a charge date between September 1, 2003, and December 31, 2003, inclusive, as calculated by the Commission based on the data submitted by the covered SRO in its Form R31 (§ 249.11 of this chapter) submissions for September 2003, October 2003, November 2003, and December 2003, and indicated on a Section 31 bill for these months.
(2) Any term used in this section that is defined in § 240.30(a) of this chapter shall have the same meaning as in § 240.30(a) of this chapter.
(b) By August 13, 2004, each covered SRO shall submit to the Commission a completed Form R31 for each of the months September 2003 to June 2004, inclusive.
(c) If the FY2004 adjustment amount of a covered SRO is a positive number, the covered SRO shall include the FY2004 adjustment amount with the payment for its next Section 31 bill.
(d) If the FY2004 adjustment amount is a negative number, the Commission shall credit the FY2004 adjustment amount to the covered SRO's next Section 31 bill.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, any covered exchange that as of August 2003 was
calculating its Section 31 fees based on the trade date of its covered sales shall not include on its September 2003 Form R31 data for any covered sale having a trade date before September 1, 2003.
(f) This temporary section shall expire on January 1, 2005.
[69 FR 41080, July 7, 2004]
§ 240.36a1-1
Exemption from Section 7 for OTC derivatives dealers.

# Preliminary Note:
OTC derivatives dealers are a special class of broker-dealers that are exempt from certain broker-dealer requirements, including membership in a self-regulatory organization (§ 240.15b9-2), regular broker-dealer margin rules (§ 240.36a1-1), and application of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (§ 240.36a1-2). OTC derivative dealers are subject to special requirements, including limitations on the scope of their securities activities (§ 240.15a-1), specified internal risk management control systems (§ 240.15c3-4), recordkeeping obligations (§ 240.17a-3(a)(10)), and reporting responsibilities (§ 240.17a-12). They are also subject to alternative net capital treatment (§ 240.15c3-1(a)(5)).
(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, transactions involving the extension of credit by an OTC derivatives dealer shall be exempt from the provisions of section 7(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78g(c)), provided that the OTC derivatives dealer complies with Section 7(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78g(d)).
(b) The exemption provided under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to extensions of credit made directly by a registered broker or dealer (other than an OTC derivatives dealer) in connection with transactions in eligible OTC derivative instruments for which an OTC derivatives dealer acts as counterparty.
[63 FR 59404, Nov. 3, 1998]
§ 240.36a1-2
Exemption from SIPA for OTC derivatives dealers.

# Preliminary Note:
OTC derivatives dealers are a special class of broker-dealers that are exempt from certain broker-dealer requirements, including membership in a self-regulatory organization (§ 240.15b9-2), regular broker-dealer margin rules (§ 240.36a1-1), and application of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (§ 240.36a1-2). OTC derivative dealers are subject to special requirements, including limitations on the scope of their securities activities (§ 240.15a-1), specified internal risk management control systems (§ 240.15c3-4), recordkeeping obligations (§ 240.17a-3(a)(10)), and reporting responsibilities (§ 240.17a-12). They are also subject to alternative net capital treatment (§ 240.15c3-1(a)(5)).
OTC derivatives dealers, as defined in § 240.3b-12, shall be exempt from the provisions of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa through 78lll).
[63 FR 59404, Nov. 3, 1998]
Subpart B—Rules and Regulations Under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 [Reserved]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
Table of OMB Control Numbers
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
OMB Control Numbers

# Table of OMB Control Numbers
The OMB control numbers for chapter II of title 17 appear in § 200.800. For the convenience of the user, § 200.800 is reprinted below.
§ 200.800
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart collects and displays the control numbers assigned to information collection requirements of the Commission by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3500
et seq.
This subpart displays current OMB control numbers for those information collection requirements of the Commission that are rules and regulations and codified in this title either in full text or incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Office of the Federal Register.
(b)
Display.
Information collection requirement
17 CFR part or section where identified and described
Current OMB
control No.
Rule 139b
230.139b
3235-0769
Rule 147(f)(1)(iii)
230.147(f)(1)(iii)
3235-0756
Rule 147A(f)(1)(iii)
230.147A(f)(1)(iii)
3235-0757
Rule 154
230.154
3235-0495
Rule 163
230.163
3235-0619
Rule 173
230.173
3235-0618
Rule 192
230.192
3235-0807
Rule 236
230.236
3235-0095
Rule 237
230.237
3235-0528
Rule 239
230.239
3235-0687
Regulation A
230.251 through 230.263
3235-0286
Rule 425
230.425
3235-0521
Rule 433
230.433
3235-0617
Rule 477
230.477
3235-0550
Rule 482
230.482
3235-0565
Rule 489
230.489
3235-0411
Rule 498
230.498
3235-0648
Rule 498A
230.498A
3235-0765
Regulation D
230.500 through 230.508
3235-0076
Regulation E
230.601 through 230.610a
3235-0232
Rule 604
230.604
3235-0232
Rule 605
230.605
3235-0232
Rule 607
230.607
3235-0747
Rule 609
230.609
3235-0233
Rule 701
230.701
3235-0522
Regulation S
230.901 through 230.905
3235-0357
Rule 405
232.405
3235-0645
Form S-1
239.11
3235-0065
Form S-2
239.12
3235-0072
Form S-3
239.13
3235-0073
Form N-2
239.14
3235-0026
Form N-1A
239.15A
3235-0307
Form S-6
239.16
3235-0184
Form S-8
239.16b
3235-0066
Form N-3
239.17a
3235-0316
Form N-4
239.17b
3235-0318
Form S-11
239.18
3235-0067
Form N-14
239.23
3235-0336
Form N-5
239.24
3235-0169
Form S-4
239.25
3235-0324
Form F-1
239.31
3235-0258
Form F-3
239.33
3235-0256
Form F-4
239.34
3235-0325
Form F-6
239.36
3235-0292
Form F-7
239.37
3235-0383
Form F-8
239.38
3235-0378
Form F-10
239.40
3235-0380
Form F-80
239.41
3235-0404
Form F-X
239.42
3235-0379
Form F-N
239.43
3235-0411
Form SF-1
239.44
3235-0707
Form SF-3
239.45
3235-0690
Form ID
239.63
3235-0328
Form SE
239.64
3235-0327
Form TH
239.65
3235-0425
Form 1-A
239.90
3235-0286
Form 1-K
239.91
3235-0720
Form 1-SA
239.92
3235-0721
Form 1-U
239.93
3235-0722
Form 1-Z
239.94
3235-0723
Form 144
239.144
3235-0101
Form 1-E
239.200
3235-0232
Form CB
239.800
3235-0518
Form C
239.900
3235-0716
Rule 6a-1
240.6a-1
3235-0017
Rule 6a-3
240.6a-3
3235-0021
Rule 6a-4
240.6a-4
3235-0554
Rule 6h-1
240.6h-1
3235-0555
Rule 8c-1
240.8c-1
3235-0514
Rule 9b-1
240.9b-1
3235-0480
Rule 10a-1
240.10a-1
3235-0475
Rule 10b5-1
240.10b5-1
3235-0801
Rule 10b-10
240.10b-10
3235-0444
Rule 10b-17
240.10b-17
3235-0476
Rule 10b-18
240.10b-18
3235-0474
Rule 10A-1
240.10A-1
3235-0468
Rule 11a1-1(T)
240.11a1-1(T)
3235-0478
Rule 12a-5
240.12a-5
3235-0079
Rule 12d1-3
240.12d1-3
3235-0109
Rule 12d2-1
240.12d2-1
3235-0081
Rule 12d2-2
240.12d2-2
3235-0080
Rule 12f-1
240.12f-1
3235-0128
Rule 12g3-2
240.12g3-2
3235-0119
Rule 12h-1(f)
240.12h-1(f)
3235-0632
Rule 13a-16
240.13a-16
3235-0116
Regulation 13D/G
240.13d-1 through 240.13d-7
3235-0145
Schedule 13D
240.13d-101
3235-0145
Schedule 13G
240.13d-102
3235-0145
Rule 13e-1
240.13e-1
3235-0305
Rule 13e-3
240.13e-3
3235-0007
Schedule 13E-3
240.13e-100
3235-0007
Schedule 13e-4F
240.13e-101
3235-0375
Regulation 14A
240.14a-1 through 240.14a-12
3235-0059
Schedule 14A
240.14a-101
3235-0059
Rule 14a-103
240.14a-103
3235-0452
Rule 14a-104
240.14a-104
3235-0452
Regulation 14C
240.14c-1
3235-0057
Schedule 14C
240.14c-101
3235-0057
Regulation 14D
240.14d-1 through 240.14d-9
3235-0102
Schedule TO
240.14d-100
3235-0515
Schedule 14D-1
240.14d-101
3235-0102
Schedule 14D-9
240.14d-101
3235-0102
Schedule 14D-1F
240.14d-102
3235-0376
Schedule 14D-9F
240.14d-103
3235-0382
Regulation 14E
240.14e-1 through 240.14e-2
3235-0102
Rule 14f-1
240.14f-1
3235-0108
Regulation 14N
240.14n-1 through 240.14n-101
3235-0655
Schedule 14N
240.14n-101
3235-0655
Rule 15a-4
240.15a-4
3235-0010
Rule 15a-6
240.15a-6
3235-0371
Rule 15b1-1
240.15b1-1
3235-0012
Rule 15b6-1(a)
240.15b6-1(a)
3235-0018
Rule 15c1-5
240.15c1-5
3235-0471
Rule 15c1-6
240.15c1-6
3235-0472
Rule 15c1-7
240.15c1-7
3235-0134
Rule 15c2-1
240.15c2-1
3235-0485
Rule 15c2-5
240.15c2-5
3235-0198
Rule 15c2-7
240.15c2-7
3235-0479
Rule 15c2-8
240.15c2-8
3235-0481
Rule 15c2-11
240.15c2-11
3235-0202
Rule 15c2-12
240.15c2-12
3235-0372
Rule 15c3-1
240.15c3-1
3235-0200
Rule 15c3-1(c)(13)
240.15c3-1(c)(13)
3235-0499
Appendix F to Rule 15c3-1
240.15c-1f
3235-0496
Rule 15c3-3
240.15c3-3
3235-0078
Rule 15c3-4
240.15c3-4
3235-0497
Rule 15d-16
240.15d-16
3235-0116
Rule 15g-2
240.15g-2
3235-0434
Rule 15g-3
240.15g-3
3235-0392
Rule 15g-4
240.15g-4
3235-0393
Rule 15g-5
240.15g-5
3235-0394
Rule 15g-6
240.15g-6
3235-0395
Rule 15g-9
240.15g-9
3235-0385
Rule 15Aj-1
240.15Aj-1
3235-0044
Rule 15Ba2-1
240.15Ba2-1
3235-0083
Rule 15Ba2-5
240.15Ba2-5
3235-0088
Rule 15Bc3-1
240.15Bc3-1
3235-0087
Rule 15Ga-2
240.15Ga-2
3235-0675
Rule 17a-1
240.17a-1
3235-0208
Rule 17a-2
240.17a-2
3235-0201
Rule 17a-3
240.17a-3
3235-0033
Rule 17a-3(a)(16)
240.17a-3(a)(16)
3235-0508
Rule 17a-4
240.17a-4
3235-0279
Rule 17a-4(b)(10)
240.17a-4(b)(10)
3235-0506
Rule 17a-5
240.17a-5
3235-0123
Rule 17a-5(c)
240.17a-5(c)
3235-0199
Rule 17a-6
240.17a-6
3235-0489
Rule 17a-7
240.17a-7
3235-0131
Rule 17a-8
240.17a-8
3235-0092
Rule 17a-9T
240.17a-9T
3235-0524
Rule 17a-10
240.17a-10
3235-0122
Rule 17a-11
240.17a-11
32350085
Rule 17a-12
240.17a-12
3235-0498
Rule 17a-13
240.17a-13
3235-035
Rule 17a-19
240.17a-19
3235-0133
Rule 17a-22
240.17a-22
3235-0196
Rule 17a-25
240.17a-25
3235-0540
Rule 17f-1(b)
240.17f-1(b)
3235-0032
Rule 17f-1(c)
240.17f-1(c)
3235-0037
Rule 17f-1(g)
240.17f-1(g)
3235-0290
Rule 17f-2(a)
240.17f-2(a)
3235-0034
Rule 17f-2(c)
240.17f-2(c)
3235-0029
Rule 17f-2(d)
240.17f-2(d)
3235-0028
Rule 17f-2(e)
240.17f-2(e)
3235-0031
Rule 17f-5
240.17f-5
3235-0269
Rule 17h-1T
240.17h-1T
3235-0410
Rule 17h-2T
240.17h-2T
3235-0410
Rule 17Ab2-1
240.17Ab2-1
3235-0195
Rule 17Ac2-1
240.17Ac2-1
3235-0084
Rule 17Ad-2(c), (d), and (h)
240.17Ad-2(c), (d), and (h)
3235-0130
Rule 17Ad-3(b)
240.17Ad-3(b)
3235-0473
Rule 17Ad-4(b) and (c)
240.17Ad-4(b) and (c)
3235-0341
Rule 17Ad-6
240.17Ad-6
3235-0291
Rule 17Ad-7
240.17Ad-7
3235-0291
Rule 17Ad-10
240.17Ad-10
3235-0273
Rule 17Ad-11
240.17Ad-11
3235-0274
Rule 17Ad-13
240.17Ad-13
3235-0275
Rule 17Ad-15
240.17Ad-15
3235-0409
Rule 17Ad-16
240.17Ad-16
3235-0413
Rule 17Ad-17
240.17Ad-17
3235-0469
Rule 19b-1
240.19b-1
3235-0354
Rule 19b-4
240.19b-4
3235-0045
Rule 19b-4(e)
240.19b-4(e)
3235-0504
Rule 19b-5
240.19b-5
3235-0507
Rule 19b-7
240.19b-7
3235-0553
Rule 19d-1
240.19d-1
3235-0206
Rule 19d-2
240.19d-2
3235-0205
Rule 19d-3
240.19d-3
3235-0204
Rule 19h-1
240.19h-1
3235-0259
Rule 24b-1
240.24b-1
3235-0194
Rule 101
242.101
3235-0464
Rule 102
242.102
3235-0467
Rule 103
242.103
3235-0466
Rule 104
242.104
3235-0465
Rule 301
242.301
3235-0509
Rule 302
242.302
3235-0510
Rule 303
242.303
3235-0505
Rule 604
242.604
3235-0462
Rule 605
242.605
3235-0542
Rule 606
242.606
3235-0541
Rule 607
242.607
3235-0435
Rule 608
242.608
3235-0500
Rule 609
242.609
3235-0043
Rule 611
242.611
3235-0600
Regulation FD
243.100 through 243.103
3235-0536
Regulation RR
244.1 through 244.22
3235-0712
Regulation G
244.100 through 244.102
3235-0576
Regulation BTR
245.100 through 245.104
3235-0579
Regulation S-P
Part 248
3235-0537
Rule 248.30
248.30
3235-0610
Regulation S-ID
248.201
3235-0692
Form 1
249.1
3235-0017
Form 1-N
249.10
3235-0554
Form 25
249.25
3235-0080
Form 26
249.26
3235-0079
Form 3
249.103
3235-0104
Form 4
249.104
3235-0287
Form 5
249.105
3235-0362
Form 8-A
249.208a
3235-0056
Form 10
249.210
3235-0064
Form 18
249.218
3235-0121
Form 20-F
249.220f
3235-0288
Form 40-F
249.240f
3235-0381
Form 6-K
249.306
3235-0116
Form 8-K
249.308
3235-0060
Form 10-Q
249.308a
3235-0070
Form 10-K
249.310
3235-0063
Form 11-K
249.311
3235-0082
Form 10-D
249.312
3235-0604
Form 18-K
249.318
3235-0120
Form 12B-25
249.322
3235-0058
Form 15
249.323
3235-0167
Form 15F
249.324
3235-0621
Form 13F
249.325
3235-0006
Form SE
249.444
3235-0327
Form ID
249.446
3235-0328
Form DF
249.448
3235-0482
Form BD
249.501
3235-0012
Form BDW
249.501a
3235-0018
Form BD-N
249.501b
3235-0556
Form X-17A-5
249.617
3235-0123
Form X-17A-19
249.635
3235-0133
Form ATS
249.637
3235-0509
Form ATS-R
249.638
3235-0509
Form CRS
249.640
3235-0766
Form X-15AJ-1
249.802
3235-0044
Form X-15AJ-2
249.803
3235-0044
Form 19b-4
249.819
3235-0045
Form 19b-4(e)
249.820
3235-0504
Form Pilot
249.821
3235-0507
Form SIP
249.1001
3235-0043
Form MSD
249.1100
3235-0083
Form MSDW
249.1110
3235-0087
Form X-17F-1A
249.1200
3235-0037
Form ABS-15G
249.1400
3235-0675
Form ABS-EE
249.1401
3235-0706
Form TA-1
249b.100
3235-0084
Form TA-W
249b.101
3235-0151
Form TA-2
249b.102
3235-0337
Form CA-1
249b.200
3235-0195
Form SD
249b.400
3235-0697
Rules 7a-15 through 7a-37
260.7a-15 through 260.7a-37
3235-0132
Form T-1
269.1
3235-0110
Form T-2
269.2
3235-0111
Form T-3
269.3
3235-0105
Form T-4
269.4
3235-0107
Form ID
269.7
3235-0328
Form SE
269.8
3235-0327
Form T-6
269.9
3235-0391
Rule 0-1
270.0-1
3235-0531
Rule 0-2
270.0-2
3235-0636
Rule 0-4
270.0-4
3235-0633
Rule 0-5
270.0-5
3235-0780
Rule 2a-5
270.2a-5
3235-0779
Rule 2a-7
270.2a-7
3235-0268
Rule 2a19-1
270.2a19-1
3235-0332
Rule 3a-4
270.3a-4
3235-0459
Rule 3a-8
270.3a-8
3235-0574
Rule 6c-7
270.6c-7
3235-0276
Rule 6e-2
270.6e-2
3235-0177
Rule 6c-11
270.6c-11
3235-0764
Rule 7d-1
270.7d-1
3235-0311
Rule 7d-2
270.7d-2
3235-0527
Section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
270.8b-1 through 270.8b-32
3235-0176
Rule 10f-3
270.10f-3
3235-0226
Rule 11a-2
270.11a-2
3235-0272
Rule 11a-3
270.11a-3
3235-0358
Rule 12b-1
270.12b-1
3235-0212
Rule 12d1-1
270.12d1-1
3235-0584
Rule 12d1-4
270.12d1-4
3235-0639
Rule 12d3-1
270.12d3-1
3235-0561
Rule 17a-6
270.17a-6
3235-0564
Rule 17a-7
270.17a-7
3235-0214
Rule 17a-8
270.17a-8
3235-0235
Rule 17a-10
270.17a-10
3235-0563
Rule 17d-1
270.17d-1
3235-0562
Rule 17e-1
270.17e-1
3235-0217
Rule 17f-1
270.17f-1
3235-0222
Rule 17f-2
270.17f-2
3235-0223
Rule 17f-4
270.17f-4
3235-0225
Rule 17f-6
270.17f-6
3235-0447
Rule 17f-7
270.17f-7
3235-0529
Rule 17g-1(g)
270.17g-1(g)
3235-0213
Rule 17j-1
270.17j-1
3235-0224
Rule 18f-1
270.18f-1
3235-0211
Rule 18f-3
270.18f-3
3235-0441
Rule 18f-4
270.18f-4
3235-0776
Rule 19a-1
270.19a-1
3235-0216
Rule 20a-1
270.20a-1
3235-0158
Rule 22c-1
270.22c-1
3235-0734
Rule 22c-2
270.22c-2
3235-0620
Rule 22d-1
270.22d-1
3235-0310
Rule 22e-3
270.22e-3
3235-0658
Rule 22e-4
270.22e-4
3235-0737
Rule 23c-1
270.23c-1
3235-0260
Rule 23c-3
270.23c-3
3235-0422
Rule 27e-1
270.27e-1
3235-0545
Rule 30b2-1
270.30b2-1
3235-0220
Rule 30e-2
270.30e-2
3235-0494
Rule 30e-1
270.30e-1
3235-0025
Rule 30e-3
270.30e-3
3235-0758
Rule 31a-1
270.31a-1
3235-0178
Rule 31a-2
270.31a-2
3235-0179
Rule 31a-4
270.31a-4
3235-0783
Rule 32a-4
270.32a-4
3235-0530
Rule 34b-1
270.34b-1
3235-0346
Rule 35d-1
270.35d-1
3235-0548
Rule 38a-1
270.38a-1
3235-0586
Investment Company Interactive Data
Part 274
3235-0642
Form N-5
274.5
3235-0169
Form N-8A
274.10
3235-0175
Form N-2
274.11a-1
3235-0026
Form N-3
274.11b
3235-0316
Form N-4
274.11c
3235-0318
Form N-6
274.11d
3235-0503
Form N-8B-2
274.12
3235-0186
Form N-8B-4
274.14
3235-0247
Form N-6F
274.15
3235-0238
Form 24F-2
274.24
3235-0456
Form N-18F-1
274.51
3235-0211
Form N-54A
274.53
3235-0237
Form N-54C
274.54
3235-0236
Form N-CEN
274.101
3235-0729
Form N-27E-1
274.127e-1
3235-0545
Form N-27F-1
274.127f-1
3235-0546
Form N-CSR
274.128
3235-0570
Form N-PX
274.129
3235-0582
Form N-PORT
274.150
3235-0730
Form N-17D-1
274.200
3235-0229
Form N-MFP
274.201
3235-0657
Form N-8F
274.218
3235-0157
Form N-17F-1
274.219
3235-0359
Form N-17F-2
274.220
3235-0360
Form N-23c-3
274.221
3235-0422
Form N-CR
274.222
3235-0705
Form N-RN
274.223
3235-0754
Form ID
274.402
3235-0328
Form SE
274.403
3235-0327
Rule 0-2
275.0-2
3235-0240
Rule 203-3
275.203-3
3235-0538
Rule 203A-2(d)
275.203A-2(d)
3235-0689
Rule 203A-2(e)
275.203A-2(e)
3235-0559
Rule 204-2
275.204-2
3235-0278
Rule 204-3
275.204-3
3235-0047
Rule 204-5
275.204-5
3235-0767
Rule 204A-1
275.204A-1
3235-0596
Rule 206(3)-2
275.206(3)-2
3235-0243
Rule 206(4)-1
275.206(4)-1
3235-0784
Rule 206(4)-2
275.206(4)-2
3235-0241
Rule 206(4)-3
275.206(4)-3
3235-0242
Rule 206(4)-6
275.206(4)-6
3235-0571
Rule 206(4)-7
275.206(4)-7
3235-0585
Form ADV
279.1
3235-0049
Schedule I to Form ADV
279.1
3235-0490
Form ADV-W
279.2
3235-0313
Form ADV-H
279.3
3235-0538
Form 4-R
279.4
3235-0240
Form 5-R
279.5
3235-0240
Form 6-R
279.6
3235-0240
Form 7-R
279.7
3235-0240
Form ADV-E
279.8
3235-0361
Form PF
279.9
3235-0679
[67 FR 14634, Mar. 27, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 37611, June 29, 2005; 76 FR 46616, Aug. 3, 2011; 77 FR 18684, Mar. 28, 2012; 80 FR 6902, Feb. 9, 2015; 81 FR 82009, Nov. 18, 2016; 83 FR 29203, June 22, 2018; 84 FR 33629, July 12, 2019; 85 FR 26092, May 1, 2020; 89 FR 90590, Nov. 18, 2024; 90 FR 9685, Feb. 18, 2025]
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 0are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
17 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
240 Technical correction
19884, 28484
240.0-13 Heading, (a), (b), and (e) revised; eff. 4-6-20
6350
240.3a71-3 (a)(10) through (13) and (d) added; (b)(1)(iii)(C) revised; eff. 4-6-20
6350
240.3a71-6 (d)(7) added; eff. 4-6-20
6412
240.12b-2 Amended; eff. 4-27-20
17241
240.12b-2 Amended
54071
240.12b-11 (d) revised
78229
240.12h-5 Revised
22006
240.14a-1 (l)(1)(iii) revised; (l)(2)(iii) and (iv)(C) amended; (l)(2)(v) added
55154
240.14a-8 (b)(1), (2), (c), and (i)(12) revised; (b)(3) added; eff. through 1-1-23 in part
70294
240.14a-2 (b)(9) added
55154
240.14a-9 Note amended
55155
240.14a-16 (f)(2)(iii) revised
26101
240.14a-101 Amended
26101, 33359, 63761
240.14d-1 (h) revised
78229
240.15c2-11 Revised
68203
240.15Fb1-1 (b) and (d) revised
78229
240.15Fb2-1 (d) and (e) revised; eff. 4-6-20
6352
240.15Fi-1 Revised; eff. 4-6-20
6412
240.15Fi-3 Added; eff. 4-6-20
6413
240.15Fi-4 Added; eff. 4-6-20
6414
240.15Fi-5 Added; eff. 4-6-20
6414
240.15g-1 (b) and (c) revised
64278
240.16a-3 (i) revised
78230
240.17a-3 (a)(31) added; eff. 4-6-20
6416
240.17a-4 (b)(1) revised; (e)(11) and (12) added; eff. 4-6-20
6416
240.17Ad-22 (a)(3), (5), and (16) revised
28867
240.18a-5 (a)(10)(iii) and (b)(8)(iii) added; eff. 4-6-20
6353
(a)(18) and (b)(14) added; eff. 4-6-20
6416
240.18a-6 (b)(1)(i) and (2)(i) revised; (d)(4) and (5) added; eff. 4-6-20
6416
240.18a-6 (b)(1)(x) revised
33021
240.21F-2 Revised
70942
240.21F-3 (b)(1) and (3) revised
70943
240.21F-4 (c)(2) and (e) revised; (d)(3) added
70943
240.21F-6 Introductory text amended; (c) added
70943
240.21F-7 (a) introductory text revised
70944
240.21F-8 Heading and (c)(7) revised; (d) and (e) added
70944
240.21F-9 (a) and (b) revised; (c) introductory text, (2) through (4), and (d) amended; (e) added
70945
240.21F-10 (b) through (e) revised
70945
240.21F-11 (b) through (e) revised
70946
240.21F-12 (a) introductory text, (3), and (6) revised; (a)(2) amended
70947
240.21F-13 (b) revised
70947
240.21F-18 Added
70947
240.19b-4 (g) revised
65497
2021
17 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter II
240 Policy statement
11627
240.0-9 Revised; eff. 5-31-22
70251
240.0-11 (a)(2), (5), (b) introductory text, (c)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, and (d) revised
70251
240.3a51-1 (a) introductory text amended
18809
240.12g5-1 (a)(2) revised; (a)(9) added
3601
240.12g-6 Heading and (a) introductory text revised
3601
240.13h-l Redesignated as 240.13h-1
18809
240.13e-1 (a)(5) amended; (b) revised; (c) redesignated as (d); (a)(7) and new (c) added
70251
240.13e-100 Amended
70253
240.13e-102 Amended
70255
240.13h-1 Redesignated from 240.13h-l; (a)(5) amended
18809
240.13q-1 Revised
4714
240.14a-2 (b) introductory text revised
68378
240.14a-3 (b)(5)(i) removed
2131
240.14a-3 (a)(3)(i) and (ii) amended
68378
240.14a-4 (b), (d)(2) and (3) amended; (b)(2), (c)(5), (d)(1), and (4) revised; (b)(3) redesignated as (b)(5); new (b)(3), (4), and instruction 1 added
68378
240.14a-5 (c) revised; (e)(2) and (3) amended; (e)(4) added
68379
240.14a-6 (a) Note 3 revised
68379
240.14a-19 Added
68380
240.14a-101 Amended
2131, 68381, 70257
240.14c-101 Amended
70259
240.14d-100 Amended
70259
240.14d-102 Amended
70260
240.17a-4 Correction: (a) and (l) revised
31116
240.17a-12 Correction: (i)(2) revised
31116
240.17Ad-24 Added; eff. 4-2-21
7643
2022
17 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
240 Authority citation revised
73138
240.10b5-1 Preliminary note removed; (a), (b), (c)(1)(i), and (ii) revised; (c)(1)(iv) added
80429
240.10D-1 Undesignated center heading and section added
73138
240.12b-2 Amended
57398
240.12d1-3 (c) revised
35413
240.14a-2 (b)(9) revised
43196
240.14A d-1 Added; eff. 7-1-24
78808
240.14a-3 (c) revised
35413
240.14a-9 (e) removed
43196
240.14a-101 Amended
55197, 73139, 80430
240.14c-3 (b) revised
35413
240.14c-101 Amended
55197
240.16a-3 (f)(1)(i)(A) and (g)(1) revised
80430
240.17a-4 (f), (i), and (j) revised; (k) heading removed
66448
240.18a-6 (e) through (g) revised
66450
240.21F-3 (b)(3) introductory text, (i), and (iii) revised; (b)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi) added
54150
240.21F-4 (c)(2) revised
54151
240.21F-6 (d) added
54151
240.21F-8 (e)(4)(ii) revised
54151
240.21F-10 (e) revised
54151
240.21F-11 (a), (c), and (e) revised
54151
240.24b-2 Note removed; introductory text and (i) added; (b) introductory text amended
38964
240.24b-2 (i) revised; eff. 7-1-24
78808
2023
17 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
240.0-2 (c) revised
12209
240.13e-100 CFR correction: Amended
18987
240.15c6-1 Revised; eff. 5-5-23
13952
240.15C6-2 Added; eff. 5-5-23
13953
240.17Ad-27 Added; eff. 5-5-23
13953
2024
17 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
240 Authority citation revised
47785
240.3a51-1 (a) introductory text amended
26608
240.13a-21 Removed; eff. 4-8-24
24375
240.13h-1 (a)(5) amended
26608
240.17 (e)(6)(ii) and (iv) revised
91058
240.17a-4 (e)(14) added
47785
240.17ad-7 Redesignated as 240.17ad-7; new heading revised; (k) added
47785
240.17ad-26 Added
91059
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
17 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter II
240 Authority citation amended
7362
240 Regulation at 89 FR 2829 compliance date extended
11134
240.3a-7 (d)(1)(vi) revised
7362
240.6a-1 (e) added
7363
240.6a-2 (a) through (d) revised
7363
240.6a-3 (a) and (b) introductory text revised
7363
240.6a-4 Revised
7364
240.13a-11 (b) revised
9689
240.13d-1 (b)(1)(i) and (c)(1) amended; (b)(1) Instruction 1 removed
9689
240.13d-102 Amended
9689
240.14a-2 (b)(7) and (8) removed
9689
240.14a-5 (e)(3) amended
9689
240.14a-6 (a)(4) amended; (p) removed
9689
240.14a-8 (b)(1)(i)(C) amended; (b)(1)(i)(D) removed
9689
240.14a-12 Amended
9689
240.14a-101 Amended
9690
240.14n-1 (a) amended
9690
240.14n-101 Amended
9690
240.15c3-1 (a)(1)(ii)(A) revised
2836
240.15c3-3 (e)(3)(i), (iv), and (v) revised; (e)(3)(vi) added
2837
240.15aa-2 Redesignated from 240.15Aj-1 and revised
7365
240.15Aa-1 Redesignated as 240.15aa-1 and revised
7365
240.15Aj-1 Redesignated as 240.15aa-2 and revised
7365
240.15d-11 (b) revised
9690
240.15Fi-3 Redesignated as 240.15fi-3; new (c) amended
7365
240.15Fk-1 Redesignated as 240.15fk-1; new (c)(2)(ii)(A) revised
7366
240.17a-5 (a)(2), (d)(6), (e)(3), (f)(3)(v)(B), (i)(1)(ii), and (k) revised; (o) removed; (p) redesignated as new (o); (e)(2)(iii) and new (p) added
7366
240.17a-12 (a)(2), (b)(6), (c), (g)(2), (j)(1), (k), (l)(1), (m)(1), and (p) revised; (q) added
7367
240.17a-19 Revised
7368
240.17a-22 Revised
7369
240.17Ab2-1 Redesignated as 240.17ab2-1 and revised
7369
240.17h-2T (a) revised
7369
240.18a-7 (c)(6), (d), (e)(3)(v)(B), (h)(1)(ii), and (j) revised
7370
240.19b-4 (e)(2)(ii) and (j) revised
7371
240.24b-2 (b) introductory text revised; (j) and (k) added
7371
○
