At the time of origination, the mortgagee shall request that the borrower designate an alternate individual for the purpose of communicating with the mortgagee if the mortgagee has not been able to reach the borrower. The designation of the alternate individual is at the discretion of the borrower. If the mortgagee is unable to make contact or communicate with the borrower for any reason, including death or incapacitation, the mortgagee shall communicate with the alternate individual, if one has been designated by the borrower.
§ 206.41
Counseling.
(a)
List provided.
At the time of the initial contact with the prospective borrower, the mortgagee shall give the borrower a list of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of HECM counselors and their employing agencies, which have been approved by the Commissioner, in accordance with subpart E of this part, as qualified and able to provide the information described in paragraph (b) of this section. The borrower, any Eligible or Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, and any non-borrowing owner must receive counseling.
(b)
Information to be provided.
(1) A HECM counselor must discuss with the borrower:
(i) The information required by section 255(f) of the NHA;
(ii) Whether the borrower has signed a contract or agreement with an estate planning service firm that requires, or purports to require, the borrower to pay a fee on or after closing that may exceed amounts permitted by the Commissioner or this part;
(iii) If such a contract has been signed under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the extent to which services under the contract may not be needed or may be available at nominal or no cost from other sources, including the mortgagee; and
(iv) Any other requirements determined by the Commissioner.
(2) If the HECM borrower has an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, in addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a HECM counselor shall discuss with the borrower and Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse:
(i) The requirement that the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse must obtain ownership of the property or other legal right to remain in the property for life, upon the death of the last surviving borrower;
(ii) A failure to obtain ownership or other legal right to remain in the property for life will result in the HECM becoming due and payable and the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse will not receive the benefit of the Deferral Period;
(iii) The requirement that the property must be the principal residence of the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse prior to and after the death of the borrowing spouse;
(iv) The requirement that the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse fulfills all obligations of the mortgage, including the payment of property charges and upkeep of the property; and
(v) Any other requirements determined by the Commissioner.
(3) If the HECM borrower has an Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, in addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a HECM counselor shall discuss with the borrower and Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse:
(i) The Deferral Period will not be applicable;
(ii) The HECM will become due and payable upon the death of the last surviving borrower; and
(iii) Any other requirements determined by the Commissioner.
(c)
Certificate.
The HECM counselor will provide the borrower with a certificate stating that the borrower, Non-Borrowing Spouse, and non-borrowing owner, as applicable, has received counseling. The borrower shall provide the mortgagee with a physical copy of the certificate.
§ 206.43
Information to borrower.
(a)
Disclosure of costs of obtaining mortgage.
The mortgagee shall ensure that the borrower has received full disclosure of all costs of obtaining the mortgage. The mortgagee shall ask the borrower about any costs or other obligations that the borrower has incurred to obtain the mortgage, as defined by the Commissioner, in addition to providing any disclosures required by law. The mortgagee shall clearly state to the borrower which charges are required to obtain the mortgage and which are not required to obtain the mortgage.
(b)
Lump sum disbursement.
(1) If the borrower requests that at least 25 percent of the principal limit amount (after deducting amounts excluded in the following sentence) be disbursed at closing to the borrower (or as otherwise permitted by § 206.25), the mortgagee must make sufficient inquiry at closing to confirm that the borrower will not use any part of the amount disbursed for payments to or on behalf of an estate planning service firm, with an explanation of § 206.32 as necessary or appropriate.
(2) This paragraph does not apply to any part of the principal limit used for the following:
(i) Initial MIP under § 206.105(a) or fees and charges allowed under § 206.31(a) paid by the mortgagee from mortgage proceeds instead of by the borrower in cash; and
(ii) Amounts set aside in accordance with § 206.19(f) for repairs under § 206.47, for property charges under § 206.205, or for servicing charges under § 206.207(b).
§ 206.44
Monetary investment for HECM for Purchase program.
(a)
Monetary investment.
At closing, HECM for Purchase borrowers shall provide a monetary investment that will be applied to satisfy the difference between the principal limit and the sale price for the property, plus any HECM loan-related fees that are not financed into the loan, minus the amount of the earnest deposit.
(b)
Funding sources.
To satisfy the required monetary investment, borrowers may use:
(1) Cash on hand;
(2) Cash from the sale or liquidation of the borrower's assets;
(3) HECM mortgage proceeds; or
(4) Other approved funding sources as determined by the Commissioner through notice.
(c)
Interested party contributions.
(1) The following interested party contributions are permissible:
(i) Fees required to be paid by a seller under state or local law;
(ii) Fees customarily paid by a seller in the subject property locality; and
(iii) The purchase of the Home Warranty policy by the seller.
(2) The Commissioner may define additional permissible interested party contributions and impose requirements for permissible interested party contributions through a notice in the
Federal Register
.

# Eligible Properties
§ 206.45
Eligible properties.
(a)
Title.
A mortgage must be on real estate held in fee simple; or on a leasehold that is under a lease with a duration lasting until the later of: 99 years, if such lease is renewable; or the actuarial life expectancy of the mortgagor plus a number of years specified by the Commissioner, which shall not be more than 99 years. The mortgagee shall obtain a title insurance policy satisfactory to the Commissioner. If the Commissioner determines that title insurance for reverse mortgages is not available for reasonable rates in a state, then the Commissioner may specify other acceptable forms of title evidence in lieu of title insurance.
(b)
Type of property.
The property shall include a dwelling designed principally as a residence for one family or such additional families as the Commissioner shall determine. A condominium unit designed for one-family occupancy shall also be an eligible property.
(c)
Borrower and mortgagee requirement for maintaining flood insurance coverage
—(1)
In general.
(i) The requirements of this paragraph (c) apply if a mortgage is to cover property improvements that:
(A) Are located in an area designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as a floodplain area having special flood hazards;
(B) Are otherwise determined by the Commissioner to be subject to a flood hazard; or
(C) Are not otherwise covered by the flood insurance standard for condominium projects established under 24 CFR 203.43b(d)(6)(iii) or (i)(1).
(ii) No mortgage may be insured that covers property improvements located in an area that has been identified by FEMA as an area having special flood hazards, unless the community in which the area is situated is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and flood insurance is obtained by the borrower. Such flood insurance shall be in the form of the standard policy issued under the NFIP or private flood insurance as defined in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. Such requirement for flood insurance shall be effective one year after the date of notification by FEMA to the chief executive officer of a flood prone community that such community has been identified as having special flood hazards.
(iii) For purposes of this section, property improvement means a dwelling and related structures/equipment essential to the value of the property and subject to flood damage.
(2)
Flood insurance obligation.
During such time as the mortgage is insured, the borrower and mortgagee shall be obligated, by a special condition to be included in the mortgage commitment, to obtain and to maintain flood insurance coverage under either the NFIP or equivalent private flood insurance coverage as defined in paragraph (c)(6) of this section on the property improvements. The mortgagee shall be named as the loss payee for flood insurance benefits. A mortgagee may determine that a private flood insurance policy meets the definition of private flood insurance in this section, without further review of the policy, if the compliance aid statement provided in 24 CFR 203.16a(c) is included within the policy or as an endorsement to the policy.
(3)
Duration and amount of coverage.
The flood insurance must be maintained during such time as the mortgage is insured in an amount at least equal to the lowest of the following:
(i) 100 percent replacement cost of the insurable value of the improvements, which consists of the development or project cost less estimated land cost; or
(ii) The maximum amount of the NFIP insurance available with respect to the particular type of the property; or
(iii) The outstanding principal balance of the loan.
(4)
Private flood insurance defined.
The term “private flood insurance” means an insurance policy that:
(i) Is issued by an insurance company that is:
(A) Licensed, admitted, or otherwise approved to engage in the business of insurance in the State or jurisdiction in which the insured building is located, by the insurance regulator of that State or jurisdiction; or
(B) In the case of a policy of difference in conditions, multiple peril, all risk, or other blanket coverage insuring nonresidential commercial property, is recognized, or not disapproved, as a surplus lines insurer by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction where the property to be insured is located;
(ii) Provides flood insurance coverage that is at least as broad as the coverage provided under a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program for the same type of property, including when considering deductibles, exclusions, and conditions offered by the insurer. To be at least as broad as the coverage provided under a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program, the policy must, at a minimum:
(A) Define the term “flood” to include the events defined as a “flood” in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program;
(B) Contain the coverage specified in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program,
including that relating to building property coverage; personal property coverage, if purchased by the insured mortgagor(s); other coverages; and increased cost of compliance coverage;
(C) Contain deductibles no higher than the specified maximum, and include similar non-applicability provisions, as under a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program, for any total policy coverage amount up to the maximum available under the NFIP at the time the policy is provided to the lender;
(D) Provide coverage for direct physical loss caused by a flood and may only exclude other causes of loss that are excluded in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program. Any exclusions other than those in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program may pertain only to coverage that is in addition to the amount and type of coverage that could be provided by a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program or have the effect of providing broader coverage to the policyholder; and
(E) Not contain conditions that narrow the coverage provided in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program;
(iii) Includes all of the following:
(A) A requirement for the insurer to give 45 days' written notice of cancellation or non-renewal of flood insurance coverage to:
(
1
) The insured;
(
2
) The mortgagee, if any; and
(
3
) Federal Housing Administration (FHA), in cases where the mortgagee has assigned the loan to FHA in exchange for claim payment;
(B) Information about the availability of flood insurance coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program;
(C) A mortgage interest clause similar to the clause contained in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program; and
(D) A provision requiring an insured to file suit not later than 1 year after the date of a written denial of all or part of a claim under the policy; and
(iv) Contains cancellation provisions that are as restrictive as the provisions contained in a standard flood insurance policy under the National Flood Insurance Program.
(d)
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
If the appraiser of a dwelling constructed prior to 1978 finds defective paint surfaces, 24 CFR 200.810(d) shall apply unless the borrower certifies that no child who is less than six years of age resides or is expected to reside in the dwelling, except that any reference to “mortgagor” in 24 CFR 200.810(d) shall mean “borrower” for purposes of this paragraph.
(e)
Restrictions on conveyance.
The property must be freely marketable. Conveyance of the property may only be restricted as permitted under 24 CFR 203.41 or 24 CFR 234.66 and this part, except that a right of first refusal to purchase a unit in a condominium project is permitted if the right is held by the condominium association for the project.
(f)
Location of property.
The mortgaged property shall be located within the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa. The mortgaged property, if otherwise acceptable to the Commissioner, may be located in any location where the housing standards meet the requirements of the Commissioner.
(g)
HECM for Purchase.
(1) A HECM for Purchase transaction is where title to the property is transferred to the HECM borrower and, at the time of closing, the HECM first and second liens, if applicable, will be the only liens against the property.
(2) Properties are eligible for FHA insurance under the HECM for Purchase program when construction is completed and the property is habitable, as evidenced by the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or its equivalent, by the local jurisdiction.
[82 FR 7117, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 70743, Nov. 21, 2022]
§ 206.47
Property standards; repair work.
(a)
Need for repairs.
Properties must meet the applicable property requirements of the Commissioner in order to
be eligible. Properties that do not meet the property requirements must be repaired in order to ensure that the repaired property will serve as adequate security for the insured mortgage.
(b)
Assurance that repairs are made.
The mortgage may be closed before the repair work is completed if the Commissioner estimates that the cost of the remaining repair work will not exceed 15 percent of the maximum claim amount and the mortgage contains provisions approved by the Commissioner concerning payment for the repairs.
(c)
Reimbursement to contractor.
When repair work is completed after closing by a contractor, the mortgagee shall cause one or more inspections of the property to be made by an inspector or other qualified individual acceptable to the Commissioner in order to ensure that the repair work is satisfactory, and prior to the release of funds from the Repair Set Aside. The mortgagee shall hold back a portion of the contract price attributable to the work done before each interim release of funds, and the total of the hold backs will be released after the final inspection and approval of the release by the mortgagee. The mortgagee shall ensure that all mechanics' and materialmen's liens are released of record.
(d)
Reimbursement to borrower.
The mortgagee shall not reimburse the borrower for any labor the borrower performed. The mortgagee may reimburse the borrower for the actual cost of repair materials from the Repair Set Aside, provided that the mortgagee causes one or more inspections of the property by an inspector or other qualified individual acceptable to the Commissioner and meets all reimbursement requirements established by the Commissioner.
(e)
HECM for Purchase.
For HECM for Purchase transactions, where major property deficiencies threaten the health and safety of the homeowner or jeopardize the soundness and security of the property, all repairs must be completed by the seller prior to closing. Appraisers shall complete the appraisal report as “Subject To” the completion of the repairs.
§ 206.51
Eligibility of mortgages involving a dwelling unit in a condominium.
If the mortgage involves a dwelling unit in a condominium, the project in which the unit is located must be acceptable to the Commissioner as set forth in 24 CFR 203.43b.
[84 FR 41877, Aug. 15, 2019]
§ 206.52
Eligible sale of property-HECM for Purchase
.
(a)
Sale by owner of record
—(1)
Owner of record requirement.
To be eligible for a mortgage insured by FHA, the property must be purchased from the owner of record and the transaction may not involve any sale or assignment of the sales contract.
(2)
Supporting documentation.
The mortgagee shall obtain documentation verifying that the seller is the owner of record and must submit this documentation to FHA as part of the application for mortgage insurance, in accordance with §§ 206.15 and 206.115(b)(9).
(b)
Time restrictions on re-sales
—(1)
General.
The eligibility of a property for a mortgage insured by FHA is dependent on the time that has elapsed between the date the seller acquired the property (based upon the date of settlement) and the date of execution of the sales contract that will result in the FHA mortgage insurance (the re-sale date). The mortgagee shall obtain documentation verifying compliance with the time restrictions described in this paragraph and must submit this documentation to FHA as part of the application for mortgage insurance, in accordance with § 206.115(b).
(2)
Re-sales occurring 90 days or less following acquisition.
If the re-sale date is 90 days or less following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is not eligible for a mortgage to be insured by FHA.
(3)
Re-sales occurring between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition.
(i) If the re-sale date is between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition by the seller, the property is generally eligible for a mortgage insured by FHA.
(ii) However, FHA will require that the mortgagee obtain additional documentation if the re-sale price is 100 percent over the purchase price. Such documentation must include an appraisal
from another appraiser. The mortgagee may also document its loan file to support the increased value by establishing that the increased value results from the rehabilitation of the property.
(iii) FHA may revise the level at which additional documentation is required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section at 50 to 150 percent over the original purchase price. FHA will revise this level by
Federal Register
notice with a 30 day delayed effective date.
(4)
Authority to address property flipping for re-sales occurring between 91 days and 12 months following acquisition.
(i) If the re-sale date is more than 90 days after the date of acquisition by the seller, but before the end of the twelfth month after the date of acquisition, the property is eligible for a mortgage to be insured by FHA.
(ii) However, FHA may require that the mortgagee provide additional documentation to support the re-sale value of the property if the re-sale price is 5 percent or greater than the lowest sales price of the property during the preceding 12 months (as evidenced by the contract of sale). At FHA's discretion, such documentation must include, but is not limited to, an appraisal from another appraiser. FHA may exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements.
(iii) If the additional value documentation supports a value of the property that is more than 5 percent lower than the value supported by the first appraisal, the lower value will be used to calculate the maximum claim amount. Otherwise, the value supported by the first appraisal will be used to calculate the maximum claim amount.
(iv) FHA will announce its determination to require additional value documentation through issuance of a
Federal Register
notice. The requirement for additional value documentation may be established either on a nationwide or regional basis. Further, the
Federal Register
notice will specify the percentage increase in the re-sale price that will trigger the need for additional documentation, and will specify the acceptable types of documentation. The
Federal Register
notice may also exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements. Any such
Federal Register
notice, and any subsequent revisions, will be issued at least thirty days before taking effect.
(v) The level at which additional documentation is required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall supersede that under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5)
Re-sales occurring more than 12 months following acquisition.
If the re-sale date is more than 12 months following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is eligible for a mortgage insured by FHA.
(c)
Exceptions to the time restrictions on sales.
The time restrictions on sales described in paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Sales by HUD of Real Estate-Owned (REO) properties under 24 CFR part 291 and of single family assets in revitalization areas pursuant to section 204 of the NHA (12 U.S.C. 1710);
(2) Sales by another agency of the United States Government of REO single family properties pursuant to programs operated by these agencies;
(3) Sales of properties by nonprofit organizations approved to purchase HUD REO single family properties at a discount with resale restrictions;
(4) Sales of properties that were acquired by the sellers by inheritance;
(5) Sales of properties purchased by an employer or relocation agency in connection with the relocation of an employee;
(6) Sales of properties by state- and federally-chartered financial institutions and government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs);
(7) Sales of properties by local and state government agencies; and
(8) Only upon announcement by FHA through issuance of a notice, sales of properties located in areas designated by the President as federal disaster areas. The notice will specify how long the exception will be in effect.
(d)
Sanctions and indemnification.
Failure of a mortgagee to comply with the requirements of this section may result in HUD requesting indemnification of the mortgage loan, or seeking
other appropriate remedies under 24 CFR part 25.

# Refinancing of Existing Home Equity Conversion Mortgages
§ 206.53
Refinancing a HECM loan.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, all requirements applicable to the insurance of HECMs under this part apply to the insurance of refinanced HECMs. FHA may, upon application by a mortgagee, insure any mortgage given to refinance an existing HECM insured under this part, including loans assigned to the Commissioner as described in § 206.107(a)(1) and § 206.121(b).
(b)
Definition of “total cost of the refinancing”.
For purposes of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the term “total cost of the refinancing” means the sum of the allowable charges and fees permitted under § 206.31 and the initial MIP described in § 206.105(a) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Initial MIP limit.
(1) The initial MIP paid by the mortgagee pursuant to § 206.105(a) shall not exceed the difference between: three percent of the increase in the maximum claim amount for the new HECM, minus the amount of the initial MIP already charged and paid by the borrower for the existing HECM that is being refinanced. No refunds will be given if the initial MIP paid on the existing HECM exceeds the initial MIP due on the new HECM.
(2) The HECM refinance authority is only applicable when the property that serves as collateral for the FHA-insured mortgage remains the same.
(3) Existing HECM borrowers refinancing an existing HECM are eligible for a MIP reduction under the conditions of this section, but existing HECM borrowers who participate in a HECM for Purchase transaction are ineligible for a reduction in the initial MIP.
(d)
Anti-churning disclosure
—(1)
Contents of anti-churning disclosure.
In addition to providing the required disclosures under § 206.43, the mortgagee shall provide to the borrower its best estimate of:
(i) The total cost of the refinancing to the borrower; and
(ii) The increase in the borrower's principal limit as measured by the estimated initial principal limit on the mortgage to be insured less the current principal limit on the HECM that is being refinanced under this section.
(2)
Timing of anti-churning disclosure.
The mortgagee shall provide the anti-churning disclosure concurrently with the disclosures required under § 206.43.
(e)
Waiver of counseling requirement.
The borrower and any Non-Borrowing Spouse may elect not to receive counseling under § 206.41, but only if:
(1) The original HECM was assigned a Case Number on or after August 4, 2014, and the borrower and Non-Borrowing Spouse, if applicable, received counseling required under § 206.41; or where the original HECM was assigned a Case Number prior to August 4, 2014, and there is no applicable Non-Borrowing Spouse.
(2) The borrower has received the anti-churning disclosure required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) The increase in the borrower's principal limit (as provided in the anti-churning disclosure) exceeds the total cost of the refinancing by an amount established by the Commissioner through
Federal Register
notice. FHA may periodically update this amount through publication of a notice in the
Federal Register.
Publication of any such revised amount will occur at least 30 days before the revision becomes effective.
(4) The time between the date of the closing on the original HECM and the date of the application for refinancing under this section does not exceed five years (even if less than five years have passed since a previous refinancing under this section).

# Deferral of Due and Payable Status
§ 206.55
Deferral of due and payable status for Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouses.
(a)
Deferral Period.
If the last surviving borrower predeceases an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, and if the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section are satisfied, the due and payable status will be deferred for as long as the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse continues to meet the Qualifying Attributes in paragraph (c) of this section
and the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(b)
End of Deferral Period.
(1) If a Deferral Period ceases or becomes unavailable because a Non-Borrowing Spouse no longer satisfies the Qualifying Attributes and has become an Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, a mortgagee may not provide an opportunity to cure the default, and the HECM will become immediately due and payable as a result of the death of the last surviving borrower.
(2) If a Deferral Period ceases but the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse continues to meet the Qualifying Attributes, the mortgagee must provide an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse with 30 days to cure the default, in accordance with § 206.57.
(c)
Qualifying Attributes.
(1) In order to qualify as an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, the Non-Borrowing Spouse must:
(i) Have been the spouse of a HECM borrower at the time of loan closing and remained the spouse of such HECM borrower for the duration of the HECM borrower's lifetime;
(ii) Have been properly disclosed to the mortgagee at origination and specifically named as an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse in the HECM mortgage and loan documents;
(iii) Have occupied, and continue to occupy, the property securing the HECM as his or her principal residence; and
(iv) Meet any other requirements as the Commissioner may prescribe by
Federal Register
notice for comment.
(2) A Non-Borrowing Spouse who meets the Qualifying Attributes in paragraph (c)(1) of this section at origination is an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse and may not elect to be ineligible for the Deferral Period. A Non-Borrowing Spouse that is ineligible for the Deferral Period at the time of loan origination because he or she failed to satisfy the Qualifying Attributes requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not subsequently eligible for a Deferral Period when the borrowing spouse dies or moves out of the home.
(3) An Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse shall become an Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse should any of the Qualifying Attributes requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section cease to be met.
(d)
Additional requirements for Deferral Period.
An Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse must satisfy and continue to satisfy the following requirements:
(1) Within 90 days from the death of the last surviving HECM borrower, establish legal ownership or other ongoing legal right to remain for life in the property securing the HECM;
(2) After the death of the last surviving borrower, ensure all other obligations of the HECM borrower(s) contained in the loan documents continue to be satisfied; and
(3) After the death of the last surviving borrower, ensure that the HECM does not become eligible to be called due and payable for any other reason.
(e)
Unaffected terms of HECM.
All applicable terms and conditions of the mortgage and loan documents, and all FHA requirements, continue to apply and must be satisfied.
(f) Nothing in this section may be construed as interrupting or interfering with the ability of the borrower's estate or heir(s) to dispose of the property if they are otherwise legally entitled to do so.
§ 206.57
Cure provision enabling reinstatement of Deferral Period
.
(a) When the mortgagee is required by § 206.55(b)(2) to provide an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse with 30 days to cure the default, this section shall apply.
(b) If the default is cured within the 30-day timeframe, the Deferral Period shall be reinstated, unless:
(1) The mortgagee has reinstated the Deferral Period within the past two years immediately preceding the current notification to the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse that the mortgage is due and payable;
(2) The reinstatement of the Deferral Period will preclude foreclosure if the mortgage becomes due and payable at a later date; or
(3) The reinstatement of the Deferral Period will adversely affect the priority of the mortgage lien.
(c) If the default is not cured within the 30-day timeframe, the mortgagee shall proceed in accordance with the
established timeframes to initiate foreclosure and reasonable diligence in prosecuting foreclosure.
(d) Even after a foreclosure proceeding has been initiated, the mortgagee shall permit an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to cure the condition which resulted in the Deferral Period ceasing, consistent with § 206.55(b)(2), and to reinstate the mortgage and Deferral Period, and the mortgage insurance shall continue in effect. The mortgagee may require the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to pay any costs that the mortgagee incurred to reinstate the mortgage, including foreclosure costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Such costs may not be added to the outstanding loan balance and shall be paid from some other source of funds. The mortgagee shall reinstate the Deferral Period unless:
(1) The mortgagee has reinstated the Deferral Period within the past two years immediately preceding the latest notification to the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse that the mortgage is due and payable;
(2) The reinstatement of the Deferral Period will preclude foreclosure if the mortgage becomes due and payable at a later date; or
(3) The reinstatement of the Deferral Period will adversely affect the priority of the mortgage lien.
§ 206.59
Obligations of mortgagee.
(a)
Certifications and disclosures at closing.
At closing, the mortgagee shall obtain the appropriate certification from each borrower identified as married as well as from each identified Non-Borrowing Spouse. When a HECM borrower has identified an Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, the mortgagee shall also disclose the amount of mortgage proceeds that would have been available under the HECM if he or she were an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse.
(b)
Divorce.
In the event of a divorce between the HECM borrower and Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, a mortgagee shall obtain a copy of the final divorce decree and shall not require the now Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to fulfill any further requirements.
(c)
Death of borrower.
Within 30 days of being notified of the death of the borrower, the mortgagee shall:
(1) Obtain all certifications, as required by the Commissioner, from the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, and continue to obtain the required certifications no less than annually thereafter for the duration of the Deferral Period; and
(2) Notify any Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse that the due and payable status of the loan is in a Deferral Period only for the amount of time that such Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse continues to meet all requirements established by the Commissioner.
(d)
Non-compliance with requirements.
If the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse ceases to meet any requirements established by the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall notify the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse within 30 days that the Deferral Period has ended and the HECM is immediately due and payable, unless the Deferral Period is reinstated in accordance with § 206.57. The mortgagee shall obtain documentation validating the reason for the cessation of the Deferral Period and, if applicable, the reason for reinstatement of the Deferral Period.
§ 206.61
HECM proceeds during a Deferral Period.
(a) The HECM is not assumable. HECM proceeds may not be disbursed to any party during a Deferral Period, except as determined by the Commissioner through notice.
(b) If a Repair Set Aside was established as a condition of the HECM, funds may be disbursed from the Repair Set Aside during a Deferral Period for the sole purpose of paying the cost of those repairs that were specifically identified prior to origination as necessary to the insurance of the HECM. Repairs under this paragraph shall only be paid for using funds from the Repair Set Aside if the repairs are satisfactorily completed during the time period established in the Repair Rider or such additional time as provided by the Commissioner. Unused funds remaining beyond the established time period shall not be disbursed.

# Subpart C—Contract Rights and Obligations

# Sale, Assignment and Pledge
§ 206.101
Sale, assignment and pledge of insured mortgages.
(a)
Sale of interests in insured mortgages.
No mortgagee may sell or otherwise dispose of any mortgage insured under this part, or group of mortgages insured under this part, or any partial interest in such mortgage or mortgages by means of any agreement, arrangement or device except pursuant to this subpart.
(b)
Sale of insured mortgage to approved mortgagee.
A mortgage insured under this part may be sold to another approved mortgagee. The seller shall notify the Commissioner of the sale within 15 calendar days, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner and acknowledged by the buyer.
(c)
Effect of sale of insured mortgage.
When a mortgage insured under this part is sold to another approved mortgagee, the buyer shall thereupon succeed to all the rights and become bound by all the obligations of the seller under the contract of insurance and the seller shall be released from its obligations under the contract, provided that the seller shall not be relieved of its obligation to pay mortgage insurance premiums until the notice required by § 206.101(b) is received by the Commissioner.
(d)
Assignments, pledges and transfers by approved mortgagee.
(1) An assignment, pledge, or transfer of a mortgage or group of mortgages insured under this part, not constituting a final sale, may be made by an approved mortgagee to another approved mortgagee provided the following requirements are met:
(i) The assignor, pledgor or transferor shall remain the mortgagee of record.
(ii) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with any party other than the mortgagee of record with respect to the rights, benefits and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance.
(2) An assignment or transfer of an insured mortgage or group of insured mortgages may be made by an approved mortgagee to other than an approved mortgagee provided the requirements under paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section are met and the following additional requirements are met:
(i) The assignee or transferee shall be a corporation, trust or organization (including but not limited to any pension trust or profit-sharing plan) which certifies to the approved mortgagee that:
(A) It has assets of $100,000 or more; and
(B) It has lawful authority to hold an insured mortgage or group of insured mortgages.
(ii) The assignment or transfer shall be made pursuant to an agreement under which the transferor or assignor is obligated to take one of the following alternate courses of action within 1 year from the date of the assignment or within such additional period of time as may be approved by the Commissioner:
(A) The transferor or assignor shall repurchase and accept a reassignment of such mortgage or group of mortgages.
(B) The transferor or assignor shall obtain a sale and transfer of such mortgage or group of mortgages to an approved mortgagee.
(3) Notice to or approval of the Commissioner is not required in connection with assignments, pledges or transfers pursuant to this section.
(e)
Declaration of trust.
A sale of a beneficial interest in a group of mortgages insured under this part, where the interest to be acquired is related to all of the mortgages as an entirety, rather than an interest in a specific mortgage, shall be made only pursuant to a declaration of trust, which has been approved by the Commissioner prior to any such sale.
(f)
Transfers of partial interests.
A partial interest in a mortgage insured under this part may be transferred under a participation agreement without obtaining the approval of the Commissioner, if the following conditions are met:
(1)
Principal mortgagee.
The insured mortgage shall be held by an approved mortgagee which, for the purposes of this section, shall be referred to as the
principal mortgagee.
(2)
Interest of principal mortgagee.
The principal mortgagee shall retain and hold for its own account a financial interest in the insured mortgage.
(3)
Qualification for holding partial interest.
A partial interest in an insured mortgage shall be issued to and held only by:
(i) A mortgagee approved by the Commissioner; or
(ii) A corporation, trust or organization (including, but not limited to any pension fund, pension trust, or profit-sharing plan) which certifies to the principal mortgagee that:
(A) It has assets of $100,000 or more; and
(B) It has lawful authority to acquire a partial interest in an insured mortgage.
(4)
Participation agreement provisions.
The participation agreement shall include provisions that:
(i) The principal mortgagee shall retain title to the mortgage and remain the mortgagee of record under the contract of mortgage insurance.
(ii) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with anyone other than the principal mortgagee with respect to the rights, benefits and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance.
(iii) The mortgage and loan documents shall remain in the custody of the principal mortgagee.
(iv) The responsibility for servicing the insured mortgages shall remain with the principal mortgagee.
§ 206.102
Insurance Funds.
Loans endorsed for insurance under this part, prior to October 1, 2008, shall be obligations of the General Insurance Fund. Loans endorsed for insurance under this part, on or after October 1, 2008, shall be obligations of the MMIF.

# Mortgage Insurance Premiums
§ 206.103
Payment of MIP.
(a) The payment of any MIP due under this subpart shall be made to the Commissioner by the mortgagee in cash until an event described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section occurs.
(b)
Payment of the mortgage.
The MIP shall no longer be remitted if the mortgage is paid in full.
(c)
Acquisition of title.
(1) If the mortgagee or a party other than the mortgagee acquires title at a foreclosure sale, or the mortgagee acquires title by a deed in lieu of foreclosure, and the mortgagee notifies the Commissioner that a claim for the payment of the insurance benefits will not be presented, the MIP shall no longer be remitted.
(2) If the mortgagee or a party other than the mortgagee acquires title at a foreclosure sale or the mortgagee acquires title by a deed in lieu of foreclosure, or where the property is sold in accordance with § 206.125(c), and a claim for the payment of the insurance benefits will be presented, the MIP shall no longer be remitted as of the date of the foreclosure sale, the date the deed in lieu of foreclosure is recorded, or the date in which the sale in accordance with § 206.125(c) is completed, as applicable.
§ 206.105
Amount of MIP.
(a)
Initial MIP.
The mortgagee shall pay to the Commissioner an initial MIP that does not exceed three percent of the maximum claim amount.
(b)
Monthly MIP.
The Commissioner may establish and collect a monthly MIP, which will accrue daily from the closing date, at a rate not to exceed 1.50 percent of the remaining insured principal balance, or up to 1.55 percent for any mortgage involving an original principal obligation that is greater than 95 percent of appraised value of the property. A mortgagee may only add the monthly MIP to the loan balance when paid to the Commissioner.
(c)
Calculation of the initial MIP.
The mortgagee shall calculate the initial MIP based on the amount of funds the borrower has elected to be made available during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period, except that the calculation shall not include any funds set aside in the Servicing Fee Set Aside, if applicable. The initial MIP calculation shall be determined based on the sum of the following amounts:
(1) For adjustable interest rate HECMs, the amount of Mandatory Obligations, the amount disbursed to the borrower at loan closing, and the amount of the available Initial Disbursement Limit not taken by the borrower at loan closing that the borrower
selects to remain available during the First 12-Month Disbursement Period.
(2) For fixed interest rate HECMs, the amount of Mandatory Obligations and the amount disbursed to the borrower at loan closing.
(d)
Adjustments to initial or monthly MIP.
The Commissioner may adjust the amount of any initial or monthly MIP through notice. Such notice shall establish the effective date of any premium adjustment therein.
§ 206.107
Mortgagee election of assignment or shared premium option.
(a)
Election of option.
Before the mortgage is submitted for insurance endorsement, the mortgagee shall elect either the assignment option or the shared premium option.
(1) Under the assignment option, the mortgagee shall have the option of assigning the mortgage to the Commissioner if the outstanding loan balance is equal to or greater than 98 percent of the maximum claim amount, regardless of the deferral status, or the borrower has requested a payment which exceeds the difference between the maximum claim amount and the outstanding loan balance and:
(i) The mortgagee is current in making the required payments under the mortgage to the borrower;
(ii) The mortgagee is current in its payment of the MIP (and late charges and interest on the MIP, if any) to the Commissioner;
(iii) The mortgage is not due and payable under § 206.27(c)(1), or, if due and payable under § 206.27(c)(1), its due and payable status has been deferred pursuant to a Deferral Period;
(iv) An event described in § 206.27(c)(2) has not occurred, or the Commissioner has been so informed but has denied approval for the mortgage to be due and payable. At the mortgagee's option, the mortgagee may forgo assignment of the mortgage and file a claim under any of the circumstances described in § 206.123(a)(3)-(5); and
(v) The mortgage is a first lien of record and title to the property securing the mortgage is good and marketable. The provisions of § 206.136 pertaining to mortgagee certifications also apply.
(2) Under the shared premium option, the mortgagee may not assign a mortgage to the Commissioner unless the mortgagee fails to make payments and the Commissioner demands assignment (§ 206.123(a)(2)), but the mortgagee shall only be required to remit a reduced monthly MIP to the Commissioner. The mortgagee shall collect from the borrower the full amount of the monthly MIP provided in § 206.105(b) but shall retain a portion of the monthly MIP paid by the borrower as compensation for the default risk assumed by the mortgagee. The portion of the MIP to be retained by a mortgagee shall be determined by the Commissioner as calculated in § 206.109. For a particular mortgage, the applicable portion shall be determined as of the date of the commitment. The mortgagee retains the right to file a claim under any of the circumstances described in § 206.123(a)(2)-(5).
(b)
No election for shared appreciation.
Shared appreciation mortgages shall be insured by the Commissioner only under the shared premium option.
§ 206.109
Amount of mortgagee share of premium.
Using the factors provided by the Commissioner, the amount of the mortgagee share of the premium shall be determined for each mortgage based upon the age of the youngest borrower or Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse and the expected average mortgage interest rate.
§ 206.111
Due date of MIP.
(a)
Initial MIP.
The mortgagee shall pay the initial MIP to the Commissioner within fifteen days of closing and as a condition to the endorsement of the mortgage for insurance.
(b)
Monthly MIP.
Each monthly MIP shall be due to the Commissioner on the first business day of each month except the month in which the mortgage is closed.
§ 206.113
Late charge and interest.
(a)
Late charge.
Initial MIP remitted to the Commissioner more than 5 days after the payment date in § 206.111(a) and monthly MIP remitted to the Commissioner more than 5 days after the
payment date in § 206.111(b) shall include a late charge of four percent of the amount owed.
(b)
Interest.
In addition to any late charge provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the mortgagee shall pay interest on any initial MIP remitted to the Commissioner more than 20 days after closing, and interest on any monthly MIP remitted to the Commissioner more than 5 days after the payment date prescribed in § 206.111(b). Such interest rate shall be paid at a rate set in conformity with the Treasury Financial Manual.
(c)
Paid by mortgagee.
Any late charge and interest owed may not be added to the outstanding loan balance and must be paid by the mortgagee.
§ 206.115
Insurance of mortgage.
(a)
Mortgages with firm commitments.
For applications for insurance involving mortgages not eligible to be originated under the Direct Endorsement program under § 203.5 (any reference to § 203.255 in § 203.5 shall mean § 206.115 for purposes of this section), the Commissioner will endorse the mortgage for insurance by issuing a Mortgage Insurance Certificate.
(b)
Endorsement with Direct Endorsement processing.
For applications for insurance involving mortgages originated under the Direct Endorsement program under § 203.5 (any reference to § 203.255 in § 203.5 shall mean § 206.115 for purposes of this section), the mortgagee shall submit to the Commissioner, within 60 days after the date of closing of the loan or such additional time as permitted by the Commissioner, properly completed documentation and certifications as listed in this paragraph (b):
(1) Property appraisal upon a form meeting the requirements of the Commissioner (including, if required, any additional documentation supporting the appraised value of the property under § 206.52), and a HUD conditional commitment, or a Lender's Notice of Value issued by the Lender Appraisal Processing Program (LAPP) approved lender when the appraisal was originally completed for use in a VA application, but only if the appraiser was also on the FHA roster as of the effective date of the appraisal, and all accompanying documents required by the Commissioner;
(2) An application for insurance of the mortgage in a form prescribed by the Commissioner;
(3) A certified copy of the mortgage and loan documents executed upon forms which meet the requirements of the Commissioner;
(4) An underwriter certification, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, stating that the underwriter has personally reviewed the appraisal report and credit application (including the analysis performed on the worksheets) and that the proposed mortgage complies with FHA underwriting requirements, and incorporates each of the underwriter certification items that apply to the mortgage submitted for endorsement, as set forth in the applicable handbook or similar publication that is distributed to all Direct Endorsement mortgagees, except that if FHA makes the TOTAL Mortgage Scorecard available to HECM mortgagees by setting out requirements applicable for the use of the TOTAL Mortgage Scorecard in a
Federal Register
notice for comment, mortgagees may follow such procedures and meet such requirements in lieu of providing the underwriter certification;
(5) Where applicable, a certificate under oath and contract regarding use of the dwelling for transient or hotel purposes;
(6) Where an individual water or sewer system is being used, an approval letter from the local health authority indicating approval of the system in accordance with § 200.926d(f);
(7) A mortgage certification on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, stating that the authorized representative of the mortgagee who is making the certification has personally reviewed the mortgage documents and the application for insurance endorsement, and certifying that the mortgage complies with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The certification shall incorporate each of the mortgagee certification items that apply to the mortgage loan submitted for endorsement, as set forth in the applicable handbook or similar publication that is distributed to all Direct Endorsement mortgagees;
(8) Documents required by § 206.15;
(9) Documentation providing that the seller is the owner of record in accordance with § 206.52(a) and the time restriction requirements of § 206.52(b) are met;
(10) For HECM for Purchase transactions, a Certificate of Occupancy, or its equivalent, if required for new construction; and
(11) Such other documents as the Commissioner may require.
(c)
Pre-endorsement review for Direct Endorsement.
(1) Upon submission by an approved mortgagee of the documents required by paragraph (b) of this section, the Commissioner will review the documents and determine that:
(i) The mortgage is executed on a form which meets the requirements of the Commissioner;
(ii) The mortgage maturity meets the requirements of the applicable program;
(iii) The stated mortgage amount does not exceed 150 percent of the maximum claim amount;
(iv) All documents required by paragraph (b) of this section are submitted;
(v) All necessary certifications are made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;
(vi) There is no mortgage insurance premium, late charge or interest due to the Commissioner; and
(vii) The mortgage was not in default when submitted for insurance or, if submitted for insurance more than 60 days after closing, the mortgagee certifies that the borrower is current in paying all property charges or is otherwise in compliance with all the terms and conditions of the mortgage documents.
(2) The Commissioner is authorized to determine if there is any information indicating that any certification or required document is false, misleading, or constitutes fraud or misrepresentation on the part of any party, or that the mortgage fails to meet a statutory or regulatory requirement. If, following this review, the mortgage is determined to be eligible, the Commissioner will endorse the mortgage for insurance by issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate. If the mortgage is determined to be ineligible, the Commissioner will inform the mortgagee in writing of this determination, and include the reasons for the determination and any corrective actions that may be taken.
(d)
Submission by mortgagee other than originating mortgagee.
If the originating mortgagee assigns the mortgage to another approved mortgagee before pre-endorsement review under paragraph (c) of this section, the assignee may submit the required documents for pre-endorsement review in the name of the originating mortgagee. All certifications must be executed by the originating mortgagee (or its underwriter, if appropriate). The purchasing mortgagee may pay any required mortgage insurance premium, late charge and interest.
(e)
Post-Endorsement review for Direct Endorsement.
Following endorsement for insurance, the Commissioner may review all documents required by paragraph (b) of this section. If, following this review, the Commissioner determines that the mortgage does not satisfy the requirements of the Direct Endorsement program, the Commissioner may place the mortgagee on Direct Endorsement probation, or terminate the authority of the mortgagee to participate in the Direct Endorsement program pursuant to § 206.15, or refer the matter to the Mortgagee Review Board for action pursuant to part 25 of this title.
(f)
Creation of the contract.
The mortgage shall be an insured mortgage from the date of the issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate, from the date of the endorsement of the credit instrument, or from the date of FHA's electronic acknowledgement to the mortgagee that the mortgage is insured, as applicable. The Commissioner and the mortgagee are thereafter bound by the regulations in this subpart with the same force and to the same extent as if a separate contract had been executed relating to the insured mortgage, including the provisions of the regulations in this subpart and of the National Housing Act.
§ 206.116
Refunds.
No amount of the initial MIP shall be refundable except as authorized by the Commissioner.

# HUD Responsibility to Borrowers
§ 206.117
General.
The Commissioner is required by statute to take any action necessary to provide a borrower with funds to which the borrower is entitled under the mortgage and which the borrower does not receive because of the default of the mortgagee. The Commissioner may hold a second mortgage to secure repayment by the borrower under § 206.27(d). Where the Commissioner does not hold a second mortgage, but makes a payment to the borrower, and such payment is not reimbursed by the mortgagee, the Commissioner shall accept assignment of the first mortgage.
§ 206.119
[Reserved]
§ 206.121
Commissioner authorized to make payments.
(a)
Investigation.
The Commissioner will investigate all complaints by a borrower concerning late payments. If the Commissioner determines that the mortgagee is unable or unwilling to make all payments required under the mortgage, including late charges, the Commissioner shall pay such payments and late charges to the borrower.
(b)
Reimbursement or assignment.
The Commissioner may demand that within 30 days from the demand, the mortgagee reimburse the Commissioner, with interest from the date of payment by the Commissioner, or assign the insured mortgage to the Commissioner. Interest shall be paid at a rate set in conformity with the Treasury Financial Manual. If the mortgagee complies with the reimbursement demand, then the contract of insurance shall not be affected. If the mortgagee complies by assigning the mortgage for record within 30 days of the demand, then the Commissioner shall pay an insurance claim as provided in § 206.129(e)(3) and assume all responsibilities of the mortgagee under the first mortgage. If the mortgagee fails to comply with the demand within 30 days, the contract of insurance will terminate as provided in § 206.133(c).
(c)
Second mortgage.
If the contract of insurance is terminated as provided in § 206.133(c), all payments to the borrower by the Commissioner will be secured by the second mortgage, unless otherwise provided by the Commissioner. Payments will be due and payable in the same manner as under the insured first mortgage. The liability of the borrower under the first mortgage shall be limited to payments actually made by the mortgagee to or on behalf of the borrower (including prior recoupment of the MIP remitted by the mortgagee and billed to the borrower), and shall exclude accrued interest, whether or not it has been included in the outstanding loan balance, and shared appreciation, if any. Interest will stop accruing on the first mortgage when the Commissioner begins to make payments under the second mortgage. The first mortgage will not be due and payable until the second mortgage is due and payable.

# Claim Procedure
§ 206.123
Claim procedures in general.
(a)
Claims.
Mortgagees may submit claims for the payment of the mortgage insurance benefits if:
(1) The conditions of § 206.107(a)(1) pertaining to the optional assignment of the mortgage by the mortgagee have been met and the mortgagee assigns the mortgage to the Commissioner;
(2) The mortgagee is unable or unwilling to make the payments under the mortgage and assigns the mortgage to the Commissioner pursuant to the Commissioner's demand, as provided in § 206.121(b);
(3) The borrower or other permissible party sells the property for less than the outstanding loan balance and the mortgagee releases the mortgage of record to facilitate the sale, as provided in § 206.125(c);
(4) The mortgagee acquires title to the property by foreclosure or a deed in lieu of foreclosure and sells the property as provided in § 206.125(g) for an amount which does not satisfy the outstanding loan balance or fails to sell the property as provided in § 206.127(a)(2); or
(5) The mortgagee forecloses and a bidder other than the mortgagee purchases the property for an amount that is not sufficient to satisfy the outstanding loan balance, as provided in § 206.125(e).
(b) [Reserved]
§ 206.125
Acquisition and sale of the property.
(a)
Initial action by the mortgagee.
(1) The mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner within 60 days of the mortgage becoming due and payable when the conditions stated in the mortgage, as required by § 206.27(c)(1) have occurred or when the Deferral Period ends. The mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner within 30 days when one of the conditions stated in the mortgage, as required by § 206.27(c)(2), has occurred.
(2) After notifying and receiving approval of the Commissioner when needed, the mortgagee shall notify the borrower, Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, borrower's estate, and borrower's heir(s), as applicable, within 30 days of the later of notifying the Commissioner or receiving approval, if needed, that the mortgage is due and payable. The mortgagee shall give the applicable party 30 days from the date of notice to engage in the following actions:
(i) Pay the outstanding loan balance, including any accrued interest, MIP, and mortgagee advances in full;
(ii) Sell the property for an amount not to be less than the amount determined by the Commissioner through notice, which shall not exceed 95 percent of the appraised value as determined under § 206.125(b), with the net proceeds of the sale to be applied towards the outstanding loan balance. Closing costs shall not exceed the greater of: 11 percent of the sales price; or a fixed dollar amount as determined by the Commissioner through
Federal Register
notice. For the purposes of this section,
sell
includes the transfer of title by operation of law;
(iii) Provide the mortgagee with a deed in lieu of foreclosure;
(iv) Correct the condition which resulted in the mortgage coming due and payable for reasons other than the death of the last surviving borrower;
(v) For an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, correct the condition which resulted in an end to the Deferral Period in accordance with § 206.57; or
(vi) Such other actions as permitted by the Commissioner through notice.
(3) For a borrower, even after a foreclosure proceeding is begun, the mortgagee shall permit the borrower to correct the condition which resulted in the mortgage coming due and payable and to reinstate the mortgage, and the mortgage insurance shall continue in effect. The mortgagee may require the borrower to pay any costs that the mortgagee incurred to reinstate the borrower, including foreclosure costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Such costs shall be paid by adding them to the outstanding loan balance. The mortgagee may refuse reinstatement by the borrower if:
(i) The mortgagee has accepted reinstatement of the mortgage within the past two years immediately preceding the current notification to the borrower that the mortgage is due and payable;
(ii) Reinstatement will preclude foreclosure if the mortgage becomes due and payable at a later date; or
(iii) Reinstatement will adversely affect the priority of the mortgage lien.
(4) For an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse, even after a foreclosure proceeding is begun, the mortgagee shall permit the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to cure the condition which resulted in the Deferral Period ceasing, in accordance with § 206.57(d).
(b)
Appraisal.
The mortgagee shall have the property appraised by an appraiser on the FHA roster, or other appraiser acceptable to, and identified by, the Commissioner through
Federal Register
notice, no later than 30 days after receipt of the request by an applicable party in connection with a potential property sale. The property shall be appraised before a foreclosure sale and have an effective appraisal date that is no more than 30 days before such sale. The appraisal shall be at the requesting party's expense unless the mortgage is due and payable. If the mortgage is due and payable, the appraisal shall be at the mortgagee's expense but the mortgagee shall have a right to be reimbursed out of the proceeds of any sale by the borrower or other permissible party. The Commissioner may, through
Federal Register
notice, identify other acceptable types of valuation for establishing the value of HECMs for the purpose of sale.
(c)
Sale by borrower or other permissible party.
Where the HECM is not due and payable, the borrower or an authorized representative of the borrower may sell the property for at least the lesser of the outstanding loan balance or the appraised value. Where the HECM is due and payable at the time the contract for sale is executed, the borrower or other party with legal right to dispose of the property may sell the property in accordance with the amount established by § 206.125(a)(2)(ii). The mortgagee shall satisfy the mortgage of record (and the Commissioner will satisfy any second mortgage required by the Commissioner under § 206.27(d) of record) in order to facilitate the sale, provided that there are no junior liens (except the mortgage to secure payments by the Commissioner if required under § 206.27(d)) and all the net proceeds from the sale are paid to the mortgagee.
(d)
Initiation of foreclosure.
(1) The mortgagee shall commence foreclosure of the mortgage within six months of the due date defined in § 206.129(d)(1), or within such additional time as may be approved by the Commissioner.
(2) If the laws of the State, city, or municipality or other political subdivision in which the mortgaged property is located or if Federal bankruptcy law does not permit the commencement of the foreclosure in accordance with § 206.125(d)(1), the mortgagee shall commence foreclosure within six months after the expiration of the time during which such foreclosure is prohibited by such laws.
(3) The mortgagee shall give written notice to the Commissioner within 30 days after the initiation of foreclosure proceedings, and shall exercise reasonable diligence in prosecuting the foreclosure proceedings to completion and in acquiring title to and possession of the property. A time frame that is determined by the Commissioner to constitute “reasonable diligence” for each State is made available to mortgagees.
(4) The mortgagee shall bid at the foreclosure sale an amount at least equal to the lesser of the sum of the outstanding loan balance and any and all other incurred expenses, or the current appraised value of the property. Such a bid by any party other than the mortgagee, for the full loan balance and all associated expenses, will result in a full payoff of the loan and no claim for insurance benefits being presented to FHA.
(e)
Other bidders at foreclosure sale.
If a party other than the mortgagee is the successful bidder at the foreclosure sale, the net proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the outstanding loan balance.
(f)
Deed in lieu of foreclosure.
(1)(i) In order to avoid delays and additional expense as a result of instituting and completing a foreclosure action, the mortgagee shall accept a deed in lieu of foreclosure from the borrower or other party with legal right to dispose of the property provided it is filed for recording within 9 months of the due date and the mortgagee is able to obtain good and marketable title.
(ii)
Cash for Keys.
The Commissioner may provide a financial incentive, in an amount to be determined by the Commissioner, to be paid by the mortgagee and reimbursed through any subsequent claim where a borrower or other party with a legal right to do so deeds the property within 6 months of the due date.
(2) In exchange for the executed and delivered deed, the mortgagee shall cancel the credit instrument and deliver it to the borrower and satisfy the mortgage of record. If applicable, the mortgagee shall request that the Commissioner cancel the credit instrument and deliver it to the borrower and satisfy the mortgage of record.
(g)
Sale of the acquired property.
(1) Upon acquisition of the property by foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure, the mortgagee shall take possession of, preserve, and repair the property and shall make diligent efforts to sell the property within six months from the date the mortgagee acquired the property, or such additional time as provided by the Commissioner. The mortgagee shall sell the property for an amount not less than the appraised value (as provided under paragraph (b) of this section) unless the mortgagee does not file an application for insurance benefits or written permission is obtained from the Commissioner authorizing a sale at a lower price.
(2) Repairs shall not exceed those required by local law, or the requirements of the Commissioner or the Secretary of Veterans Affairs if the sale of the property is financed with a mortgage insured by the Commissioner or guaranteed, insured, or taken by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. No other repairs shall be made without the specific advance approval of the Commissioner.
(3) The mortgagee shall not enter into a contract for the preservation, repair, or sale of the property with any officer, employee, or owner of ten percent or more interest in the mortgagee or with any other person or organization having an identity of interest with the mortgagee or with any relative of such officer, employee, owner, or person.
(4) The Commissioner may provide financial incentive, in an amount to be determined by the Commissioner, to be paid by the mortgagee and reimbursed through a subsequent claim when a bona fide tenant vacates the property prior to an eviction being initiated by the mortgagee.
§ 206.127
Application for insurance benefits.
(a)
Mortgagee acquires title.
(1) The mortgagee shall apply for the payment of the insurance benefits within 30 days after the sale of the property by the mortgagee or within such additional time as approved by the Commissioner. Application shall be made by notifying the Commissioner of the sale of the property, the sale price, and income and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, repair, and sale of the property.
(2) If the property will not be sold within six months from the foreclosure sale date where the mortgagee is the successful bidder, the mortgagee shall apply for the insurance benefit not later than 30 days after the end of the six-month period, substituting the appraised value, using a valid appraisal, for the sale price. The mortgagee may add the cost of the appraisal to the claim amount.
(b)
Party other than the mortgagee acquires title.
The mortgagee shall apply for the payment of the insurance benefits within 30 days after a party other than the mortgagee acquires title to the property. Application shall be made by notifying the Commissioner of the sale of the property and the sale price. Transferring a portfolio that includes REO properties to another entity does not constitute a “sale” under this section.
(c)
Mortgagee assigns the mortgage.
The mortgagee shall file its claim for the payment of insurance benefits within 15 days after the date the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner is filed for recording. The application for the payment of the insurance benefits shall include the items listed in § 206.135(a) and the certification required under § 206.136.
(d)
Contract of insurance not terminated.
Mortgagees may only file an application for insurance benefits provided the contract of insurance has not terminated.
§ 206.129
Payment of claim.
(a)
General.
If the claim for the payment of the insurance benefits is acceptable to the Commissioner, payment shall be made in cash in the amount determined under this section.
(b)
Limit on claim amount.
(1) For HECMs assigned Case Numbers prior to September 19, 2017, in no case may the claim paid under this subpart exceed the maximum claim amount. The interest allowance provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(x), (e)(2), and (f)(2)(i) of this section shall not be included in determining the limit on the claim amount.
(2) For HECMs assigned Case Numbers on or after September 19, 2017, in no case may the claim paid under this subpart exceed the maximum claim amount, as defined in § 206.3. The interest allowance provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(x), (e)(2) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section shall be made in cash in the amount determined under this section and shall be included in determining the limit on the claim amount.
(c)
Shared appreciation mortgages.
The terms
loan balance
and
accrued interest
as used in this section do not include interest attributable to the mortgagee's share of the appreciated value of the property.
(d)
Amount of payment—mortgagee acquires title or is unsuccessful bidder.
This
paragraph describes the amount of payment if the mortgagee acquires title by purchase, foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or when a party other than the mortgagee is the successful bidder at the foreclosure sale.
(1)
Due and payable date
means the date when the mortgagee notifies or should have notified the Commissioner that the mortgage is due and payable under the conditions stated in the mortgage, as required by § 206.27(c)(1) or the date that the Deferral Period, as provided for in the mortgage by § 206.27(c)(3), ends; or the date the Commissioner approved a due and payable request as provided for in the mortgage by § 206.27(c)(2).
(2) The amount of the claim shall be computed by:
(i) Totaling the outstanding loan balance and any accrued interest and servicing fees which have not been added to the outstanding loan balance as of the due and payable date, and allowances for items set forth in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and
(ii) Subtracting from that total the amount for which the property was sold (or the appraised value determined under § 206.127(a)(2)) and the items set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(3) The claim shall include items listed in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (xiv) of this section. For HECMs with Case Numbers assigned on or after September 19, 2017, the inclusion of items listed in paragraphs (d)(3)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section shall be limited to two-thirds of advances made by the mortgagee on such expenses.
(i) Taxes, ground rents, water rates, and utility charges that are liens prior to the mortgage;
(ii) Special assessments, which are noted on the application for insurance or which become liens after the insurance of the mortgage;
(iii) Hazard and flood insurance premiums on the mortgaged property not in excess of a
reasonable rate;
(A) For purposes of this section,
reasonable rate
means a rate that is not in excess of the rate or advisory rate set by the principal State-licensed rating organization for essential property insurance in the voluntary market, or if coverage is available under a FAIR Plan, the FAIR Plan rate;
(B) If a State has neither a FAIR Plan nor a State-licensed rating organization for essential property insurance in the voluntary market, the mortgagee must provide to the Home Ownership Center (HOC) having jurisdiction, information concerning the lowest rates available from an insurer for the types of coverage involved, with a request for a determination of whether the rate is reasonable. FHA will determine the rate to be reasonable if it approximates the rate assessed for comparable insurance coverage applicable to similarly situated properties in a State that offers a FAIR Plan or maintains a State-licensed rating organization;
(iv) Taxes imposed upon any deeds or other instruments by which said property was acquired by the mortgagee pursuant to § 206.125;
(v) Reasonable payments made by the mortgagee, with the approval of the Commissioner, for the purpose of protecting, operating, or preserving the property, or removing debris from the property;
(vi) Reasonable costs for performing property inspections required by § 206.140 and to determine if the property is vacant or abandoned are considered to be costs of protecting, operating or preserving the property;
(vii) Charges for the administration, operation, maintenance, or repair of community-owned property or the maintenance or repair of the mortgaged property, paid by the mortgagee for the purpose of discharging an obligation arising out of a covenant filed for record prior to the issuance of the mortgage; and charges for the repair or maintenance of the mortgaged property required by, and in an amount approved by, the Commissioner under § 206.142;
(viii) Reasonable costs of the title search ordered by the mortgagee, in accordance with procedures prescribed by FHA, to determine if the criteria for approval of the mortgagee's acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or to determine clear title to complete a pre-foreclosure sale;
(ix) Foreclosure costs or costs of acquiring the property in accordance with such conditions as the Commissioner shall prescribe;
(x) An amount equal to the interest allowance which would have been earned, from the due and payable date to the date when payment of the claim is made, if the claim had been paid in debentures, except that when the mortgagee fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of §§ 206.125 and 206.127 of this subpart within the specified time, and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended.
(A)
Debenture interest rate.
The debenture interest rate provided for in § 206.146 shall be used.
(B)
Maturity of debentures.
Debentures shall mature 20 years from the date of issue.
(C)
Registration of debentures.
Debentures shall be registered as to principal and interest.
(D)
Form and amounts of debentures.
Debentures issued under this part shall be in such form and amounts; and shall be subject to such terms and conditions; and shall include such provisions for redemption, if any, as may be prescribed by the Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury; and may be in book entry or certificated registered form, or such other form as the Commissioner by regulation may prescribe.
(E)
Redemption of debentures.
Debentures shall, at the option of the Commissioner and with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be redeemable at par plus accrued interest on any semiannual interest payment date on three months' notice of redemption given in such manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The debenture interest on the debentures called for redemption shall cease on the semiannual interest payment date designated in the call notice. The Commissioner may include with the notice of redemption an offer to purchase the debentures at par plus accrued interest at any time during the period between the notice of redemption and the redemption date. If the debentures are purchased by the Commissioner after such call and prior to the named redemption date, the debenture interest shall cease on the date of purchase.
(F)
Issue date of debentures.
The issue date of debentures is determined by the due and payable date as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(G)
Cash adjustment.
Any difference of less than $50 between the amount of debentures to be issued to the mortgagee and the total amount of the mortgagee's claim, as approved by the Commissioner, may be adjusted by the issuance of a check in payment thereof;
(xi) Any amount of incentive paid by the mortgagee in accordance with § 206.125(f)(1)(ii) or § 206.125(g)(4);
(xii) Costs of any appraisal under §§ 206.125 or 206.127, provided that the property was appraised after the mortgage became due and payable and that the mortgagee is not otherwise reimbursed for such costs;
(xiii) Reasonable payments made by the mortgagee for:
(A) Preservation and maintenance of the property;
(B) Repairs necessary to meet the objectives of the property standards required for mortgages insured by the Commissioner, those required by local law, and such additional repairs as may be specifically approved in advance by the Commissioner; and
(C) Expenses in connection with the sale of the property including a sales commission at the rate customarily paid in the community and, if the sale to the buyer involves a mortgage insured by the Commissioner or guaranteed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, a discount at a rate not to exceed the maximum allowable by the Commissioner, as of the date of execution of the discounted loan. Closing costs shall not exceed the greater of: 11 percent of the sales price; or a fixed dollar amount as determined by the Commissioner through
Federal Register
notice; and
(xiv) A certification that the property is undamaged in accordance with § 206.143.
(4) There shall be deducted from the amount computed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section:
(i) The items listed in § 206.145; and
(ii) Any adjustment for damage or neglect to the property pursuant to §§ 206.140, 206.141, and 206.142.
(e)
Amount of payment—assigned mortgages.
This paragraph describes the amount of payment if the mortgagee assigns a mortgage to the Commissioner under § 206.107(a)(1) or § 206.121(b).
(1) When a mortgagee assigns a mortgage which is eligible for assignment under § 206.107(a)(1), the amount of payment shall be computed by subtracting from the outstanding loan balance on the date of assignment all cash retained by the mortgagee, including amounts held or deposited for the account of the borrower or to which it is entitled under the mortgage transaction that have not been applied in reduction of the principal mortgage indebtedness, and any adjustments for damage or neglect to the property pursuant to §§ 206.140, 206.141 and 206.142.
(2) The claim shall also include:
(i) Reimbursement for such costs and attorney's fees as the Commissioner finds were properly incurred in connection with the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner; and
(ii) An amount equivalent to the interest allowance which will have been earned from the date the mortgage was assigned to the Commissioner to the date the claim is paid, if the claim had been paid in debentures, except that if the mortgagee fails to meet any of the requirements of § 206.127(c), or § 206.131 if applicable, within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in the payment of the claim shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended. The provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(x)(A)-(G) of this section pertaining to debentures are applicable except that the issue date of the debentures shall be the date the mortgage was assigned to the Commissioner.
(3) When a mortgagee assigns a mortgage under § 206.121(b) after demand by the Commissioner, the mortgagee will not receive the entire claim payment as contained in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. The amount of the claim shall be computed by totaling the payments made by the mortgagee to the borrower or for the benefit of the borrower, and subtracting from the total the cash retained by the mortgagee, including amounts held or deposited for the account of the borrower or to which it is entitled under the mortgage transaction that have not been applied in reduction of the principal mortgage indebtedness, and any adjustments for damage or neglect to the property pursuant to §§ 206.141 and 206.142. The claim shall also be reduced by an amount determined by the Commissioner to reimburse the Commissioner for administrative expenses incurred in assuming the mortgagee's responsibility under the mortgage, which may include expenses for staff time. If more than one mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the administrative expenses incurred for all the mortgages assigned shall be allocated among the mortgages as determined by the Commissioner. The claim shall not include accrued interest whether or not it has been included in the loan balance.
(f)
Amount of payment-borrower sells the property.
This paragraph describes the amount of payment if the property is sold in accordance with § 206.125(c) to one other than the mortgagee for less than the outstanding loan balance, and the mortgagee releases the mortgage to facilitate the sale.
(1)(i)
For HECMs assigned Case Numbers prior to September 19, 2017,
the amount of the claim shall be computed by totaling the outstanding loan balance and any accrued interest and servicing fees which have not been added to the outstanding loan balance on the date the deed is recorded, and an allowance for items set forth in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)-(vii) and (d)(3)(xii) of this section, and subtracting from the total the amount for which the property was sold.
(ii)
For HECMs assigned Case Numbers on or after September 19, 2017, the following provisions apply:
(A)
When the loan is not in due and payable status.
The amount of the claim shall be computed by totaling the outstanding loan balance and any accrued interest and servicing fees which have not been added to the outstanding loan
balance on the date the deed is recorded, and an allowance for items set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(xiii)(C) of this section, and subtracting from the total the amount for which the property was sold.
(B)
When the loan is in due and payable status.
The amount of the claim shall be computed by totaling the outstanding loan balance and any accrued interest and servicing fees which have not been added to the outstanding loan balance as of the due date, the items set forth in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and subtracting from the total the amount for which the property was sold.
(2)(i)
For HECMs assigned Case Numbers prior to September 19, 2017,
the claim shall also include an amount equivalent to the interest allowance which would have been earned from the date the deed is recorded to the date when payment of the claim is made, if the claim had been paid in debentures, and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner; the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular action should have been taken or to which it was extended. The provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(x)(A)-(G) of this section pertaining to debentures apply except that the issue date of the debentures is the date the deed is recorded instead of the due date.
(ii)
For HECMs assigned Case Numbers on or after September 19, 2017, the following provisions apply:
(A)
When the loan is not in due and payable status.
The claim shall also include an amount equivalent to the interest allowance which would have been earned from the date the deed is recorded to the date when payment of the claim is made, if the claim had been paid in debentures, and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner; the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular action should have been taken or to which it was extended. The provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(x)(A)-(G) of this section pertaining to debentures apply except that the issue date of the debentures shall be the date the deed is recorded.
(B)
When the loan is in due and payable status.
The claim shall also include an amount equivalent to the interest allowance which would have been earned from the due and payable date to the date when payment of the claim is made, if the claim had been paid in debentures, except that when the mortgagee fails to meet any of the applicable requirements of §§ 206.125 and 206.127 within the specified time determined by the due and payable date, as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner; the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular action should have been taken or to which it was extended. The provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(x)(A)-(G) of this section pertaining to debentures apply.
§ 206.130
Amount of payment—HECM Single Family Sale assignments.
(a)
Time of payment.
Upon an assignment of a mortgage
insured under this part that is acceptable to the Commissioner, made pursuant to a HECM Single Family Sale and
in accordance with § 291.609 or § 291.619 of this chapter, the Commissioner shall pay to the mortgagee the unpaid principal balance of the loan at the time of assignment and an amount calculated in accordance with the Participating Servicer Agreement (PSA), as defined in § 291.601 of this chapter.
(b)
Acceptability criteria.
For assignment, the mortgagee must determine and certify the mortgage satisfies the Commissioner's acceptability criteria for the Single Family Sale.
(c)
Reduction in claim.
The mortgagee's claim for insurance will be reduced for failure to take the required actions within the specified schedule of dates for the Single Family Sale, as specified in the PSA.
(d)
Curtailment of debenture interest.
HUD will curtail debenture interest at the thirtieth (30th) day following the earliest anticipated claim submission date, as identified on the schedule of dates in the PSA, if:
(1) The mortgagee's claim for insurance is not submitted to HUD; or
(2) The claim for insurance is in a suspended status.
(e)
Debenture Interest.
For purposes of this section,
Debenture Interest
means interest at the debenture rate as computed by HUD in accordance with its rules and requirements for such calculations, on the unpaid principal balance as of the claim payment date,
plus
the approved reimbursable expenses identified in the PSA,
minus
any amount of such interest or expenses that would have been curtailed or for which the Participating Servicer would have been denied reimbursement pursuant to HUD's requirements for servicing due and payable notes and processing claims, including § 206.129(d)(3)(x), had the Participating Servicer foreclosed or the borrower sold the property in connection with an insurance claim.
(f)
Rejection of the claim.
HUD may reject the mortgagee's claim for insurance and exclude the related mortgage from settlement if, within the thirty (30)-day period prior to the claim's submission cut-off date, as identified on the schedule of dates in the PSA:
(1) An insurance claim is not submitted; or
(2) Any suspended insurance claim is not yet resolved.
[89 FR 99716, Dec. 11, 2024]

# Condominiums
§ 206.131
Contract rights and obligations for mortgages on individual dwelling units in a condominium.
(a)
Additional requirements.
The requirements of this subpart shall be applicable to mortgages on individual dwelling units in a condominium, except as modified by this section.
(b)
References.
The term
property
as used in this subpart shall be construed to include the individual dwelling unit and the undivided interest in the common areas and facilities as may be designated.
(c)
Assignment of the mortgage.
If the mortgagee assigns the mortgage on the individual dwelling unit to the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall certify:
(1) To any changes in the plan of apartment ownership including the administration of the property;
(2) That as of the date the assignment is filed for record, the family unit is assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining only to that unit; and
(3) To the condition of the property as of the date the assignment is filed for record. For units in projects with mortgages insured under 24 CFR part 234, § 234.275 of this chapter concerning the certification of condition applies.
(d)
Condition of the multifamily structure.
In projects with mortgages insured under 24 CFR part 234, the provisions of § 234.270(a) and (b) of this chapter concerning the condition of the multifamily structure in which the property is located shall be applicable to mortgages insured under this part which are assigned to the Commissioner.
[82 FR 7117, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 41877, Aug. 15, 2019]

# Termination of Insurance Contract
§ 206.133
Termination of insurance contract.
(a)
Payment of the mortgage.
The contract of insurance shall be terminated if the mortgage is paid in full.
(b)
Acquisition of title.
(1) If the mortgagee or a party other than the mortgagee acquires title at a foreclosure sale, or the mortgagee acquires title by a deed in lieu of foreclosure, and the mortgagee notifies the Commissioner that a claim for the payment of the insurance benefits will not be presented, the contract of insurance shall be terminated.
(2) For HECMs with Case Numbers assigned on or after September 19, 2017, if the mortgagee or a party other than the mortgagee acquires title at a foreclosure sale or the mortgagee acquires title by a deed in lieu of foreclosure and a claim for the payment of the insurance benefits will be presented, the contract of insurance shall be terminated as of claim payment.
(c)
Mortgagee fails to make payments.
If the mortgagee fails to make the payments to the borrower as required under the mortgage, and does not reimburse the Commissioner or assign the mortgage to the Commissioner within 30 days from the demand by the Commissioner for reimbursement or assignment, the contract of insurance shall automatically terminate. The Commissioner may later reinstate the contract
of insurance, which shall continue in force as if no termination had occurred, upon reimbursement with interest as provided in § 206.121. Upon reinstatement, the mortgagee shall be liable for all MIP which would have been due if no termination had occurred, including late charge and interest as provided in § 206.113.
(d)
Notice of termination.
The mortgagee shall give written notice to the Commissioner, or other notice acceptable to the Commissioner, within 15 days of the occurrence of an event under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. No contract of insurance shall be terminated under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section unless such notice is given.
(e)
Voluntary termination.
The mortgagor and the mortgagee may jointly request the Commissioner to approve the voluntary termination of the mortgage insurance contract. Prior to approval, the Commissioner shall make certain that the borrower is aware of the consequences which could arise out of the voluntary termination of the contract of insurance. The mortgagee shall cancel the insurance endorsement on the Mortgage Insurance Certificate or Note upon receipt of notice from the Commissioner that the contract of insurance is terminated. Notwithstanding any provision in a mortgage instrument, there shall be no voluntary termination charge due the Commissioner on account of the voluntary termination of any mortgage insurance contract where the request for termination is received by the Commissioner.
(f)
Effect of termination.
When the insurance contract is terminated, all rights of the mortgagee shall terminate, including the right to file a claim for insurance benefits. All obligations of the Commissioner shall also cease immediately.

# Additional Requirements
§ 206.134
Partial release, addition or substitution of security.
(a) A mortgagee shall not release the security or any part thereof, while the mortgage is insured, without the prior consent of the Commissioner.
(b) A mortgagee may, with the prior consent of the Commissioner, accept an addition to, or substitution of, security for the purpose of removing the dwelling to a new lot or replacing the dwelling with a similar or like kind on the existing lot under the following conditions:
(1) The mortgagee obtains a good and valid first lien on the property to which the dwelling is removed or the existing lot upon which the dwelling is rebuilt;
(2) All damages to the structure are repaired or all rebuilding of the structure is completed without cost to FHA; and
(3) The property to which the dwelling is removed or rebuilt is in an area known to be reasonably free from natural hazards or, if in a flood zone, the borrower will insure or reinsure under the National Flood Insurance Program or obtain equivalent private flood insurance coverage, as defined in § 203.16a of this chapter.
(c) A mortgagee may, without the prior consent of the Commissioner, accept an addition to, or substitution of, security for the purpose of removing the dwelling to a new lot under the following conditions:
(1) The dwelling has survived an earthquake or other disaster with little damage, but continued location on the property might be hazardous;
(2) The conditions stated in paragraph (b) of this section exist; and
(3) Immediately following the emergency removal the mortgagee notifies the Commissioner of the reasons for removal.
[82 FR 7117, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 70744, Nov. 21, 2022]
§ 206.135
Application for insurance benefits and fiscal data.
(a) On the date the application for assignment is filed, the mortgagee shall submit to the Commissioner:
(1)
Credit and security instrument.
The original credit and security instruments assigned without recourse or warranty, except that no act or omission of the mortgagee shall have impaired the validity and priority of the mortgage.
(2)
Proposed assignment instrument.
A copy of the proposed assignment of mortgage.
(3)
Hazard and flood insurance.
All hazard and flood insurance (if applicable) policies held in connection with the mortgaged property, together with a copy of the mortgagee's notification to the carrier authorizing the amendment of the loss payable clause substituting the Commissioner as the mortgagee.
(4)
Rights and interests.
An assignment of all rights and interests arising under the mortgage, and all claims of the mortgagee against the borrower or others arising out of the mortgage transaction.
(5)
Property.
All property of the borrower held by the mortgagee or to which it is entitled (other than the cash items which are to be retained by the mortgagee).
(6)
Records and accounts.
All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers and accounts relating to the mortgage transaction.
(7)
Additional information.
Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require.
(8)
Title evidence.
All title evidence held by the mortgagee. It need not be extended to include the recordation of the assignment. The title insurance policy shall be endorsed from the mortgage insurance company up to the point of assignment. At the point of assignment, the Commissioner shall be named insured under such policy.
(b) All documents required in paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted and approved before a claim for assignment may be submitted.
(c)
Recorded assignment instrument.
The original of the recorded assignment of mortgage shall be forwarded to the Commissioner as soon as received by the mortgagee, but in no case shall it be longer than 12 months after recordation. If the original of the assignment is not available, a copy shall be furnished and the original forwarded as soon as possible.
§ 206.136
Conditions for assignment.
(a) In order for a HECM to be eligible for assignment, the following must be met:
(1)
Priority of mortgage to liens.
The mortgage is prior to all mechanics' and materialmen's liens, regardless of when such liens attach, and prior to all liens and encumbrances, or defects which may arise based on any act or omission by the mortgagee except such liens or other matters as may have been approved by the Commissioner.
(2)
Amount due.
The amount stated in the instrument of assignment is actually due and owing under the mortgage.
(3)
Offsets or counterclaims.
There are no offsets or counterclaims thereto and the mortgagee has a good right to assign.
(b) The mortgagee shall certify that the conditions of paragraph (a) have been met.
§ 206.137
Effect of noncompliance with regulations.
If, for any reason, the mortgagee fails to comply with the regulations in this subpart, the Commissioner may hold processing of the application for insurance benefits in abeyance for a reasonable time in order to permit the mortgagee to comply. In the alternative to holding processing in abeyance, the Commissioner may reconvey title to the property or reassign the mortgage to the mortgagee, in which event the application for insurance benefits shall be considered as cancelled and the mortgagee shall refund the insurance benefits to the Commissioner as well as other funds required by § 206.138. The mortgagee may reapply for insurance benefits at a subsequent date; provided, however, that the mortgagee may not be reimbursed for any expenses incurred in connection with the property after it has been reconveyed or the mortgage reassigned by the Commissioner, or paid any debenture interest accrued after the date of initial conveyance, whichever is earlier, and there will be deducted from the insurance benefits any reduction in the Commissioner's estimate of the value of the property occurring from the time of reconveyance or mortgage reassignment to the time of reapplication.
§ 206.138
Mortgagee's liability for certain expenditures.
Where the Commissioner accepts an assignment, acquires a property after accepting an assignment of a mortgage, or otherwise pays a claim for insurance benefits and thereafter it becomes necessary for the Commissioner to either reconvey the property or reassign the mortgage to the mortgagee due to the mortgagee's noncompliance with these regulations, the mortgagee shall reimburse the Commissioner for all expenses incurred in connection with such acquisition and reconveyance or reassignment. The reimbursement shall include interest on the amount of insurance benefits refunded by the mortgagee from the date the insurance benefits were paid to the date of refund at an interest rate set in conformity with the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual, and the Commissioner's cost of holding the property or servicing the mortgage, accruing on a daily basis, from the date of assignment or claim payment to the date of reconveyance or reassignment. These costs are based on the Commissioner's estimate of the taxes, maintenance and operating expenses of the property, and administrative expenses. Appropriate adjustments shall be made by the Commissioner on account of any income received from the property.
§ 206.140
Inspection and preservation of properties.
The mortgagee, upon learning that a property subject to a mortgage insured under this part is vacant or abandoned, shall be responsible for the inspection of such property at least monthly, if the loan is in a due and payable status. When a mortgage is in due and payable status and efforts to reach the borrower or applicable party by telephone within that period have been unsuccessful, the mortgagee shall be responsible for a visual inspection of the security property to determine whether the property is vacant. The mortgagee shall take reasonable action to protect and preserve such security property when it is determined or should have been determined to be vacant or abandoned until assigned to the Commissioner or an application for insurance benefits is filed, if such action does not constitute an illegal trespass. “Reasonable action” includes the commencement of foreclosure within the time required by § 206.125.
§ 206.141
Property condition.
(a)
Condition at time of transfer.
When the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner or the property is sold by the mortgagee, the property shall be undamaged by fire, earthquake, flood, or tornado, except as set forth in this subpart.
(b)
Damage to property by waste.
The mortgagee shall not be liable for damage to the property by waste committed by the borrower, its heirs, successors or assigns in connection with mortgage insurance claims.
(c)
Mortgagee responsibility.
The mortgagee shall be responsible for:
(1) Damage by fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, or tornado; and
(2) Damage to or destruction of security properties on which the loans are in default and which properties are vacant or abandoned, when such damage or destruction is due to the mortgagee's failure to take reasonable action to inspect, protect and preserve such properties as required by § 206.140.
(d)
Limitation.
The mortgagee's responsibility for property damage shall not exceed the amount of its insurance claim as to a particular property.
§ 206.142
Adjustment for damage or neglect.
(a) Except as provided for in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section: if the property has been damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, or tornado, the damage must be repaired before assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner; if the property has suffered damage because of the mortgagee's failure to take action as required by § 206.140, the damage must be repaired before the mortgagee sells the property.
(1) If the prior approval of the Commissioner is obtained, there will be deducted from the insurance benefits the Commissioner's estimate of the cost of repairing the damage or any insurance recovery received by the mortgagee, whichever is greater.
(2) If the property has been damaged by fire and was not covered by fire insurance at the time of the damage, or the amount of insurance coverage was inadequate to repair fully the damage, only the amount of insurance recovery received by the mortgagee, if any, will be deducted from the insurance benefits, provided the mortgagee certifies, at the time that a claim is filed for insurance benefits, that:
(i) At the time the mortgage was insured, the property was covered by fire insurance in an amount at least equal to the lesser of 100 percent of the insurable value of the improvements, or the principal loan balance of the mortgage;
(ii) The insurer later cancelled this coverage or refused to renew it for reasons other than nonpayment of premium;
(iii) The mortgagee made diligent though unsuccessful efforts within 30 days of any cancellation or non-renewal of hazard insurance, and at least annually thereafter, to secure other coverage or coverage under a FAIR Plan, in an amount described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, or if coverage to such an extent was unavailable at a reasonable rate, the greatest extent of coverage that was available at a reasonable rate;
(iv) The extent of coverage obtained by the mortgagee in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section was the greatest available at a reasonable rate, or if the mortgagee was unable to obtain insurance, none was available at a reasonable rate; and
(v) The mortgagee took the actions required by § 206.140.
(b) If the property has been damaged during the time of the mortgagee's possession by events other than fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, or tornado, or if it was damaged notwithstanding reasonable action by the mortgagee as required by § 206.140, the mortgagee must provide notice of such damage to the Commissioner and may not sell the property until directed to do so by the Commissioner. The Commissioner will either:
(1) Allow the mortgagee to sell the property damaged; or
(2) Require the mortgagee to repair the damage before sale, and the Commissioner will reimburse the mortgagee for reasonable payments not in excess of the Commissioner's estimate of the cost of repair, less any insurance recovery.
§ 206.143
Certificate of property condition.
(a) The mortgagee shall certify that as of the date the mortgagee sold the property in accordance with § 206.125(g) or assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner, the property was:
(1) Undamaged by fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane or tornado; and
(2) Undamaged due to failure of the mortgagee to take action as required by § 206.140; and
(3) Undamaged while the property was in the possession of the mortgagee.
(b) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the mortgagee's certificate or description of the damage shall be accepted by the Commissioner as establishing the condition of the property, as of the date of mortgagee sale or assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner.
§ 206.144
Final payment.
The mortgagee may not file any supplemental claims to its mortgage insurance claim after six months from settlement by the Commissioner of the claim payment except where the Commissioner determines it appropriate and expressly authorizes an extension of time for supplemental claim filings.
§ 206.145
Items deducted from payment.
(a) There shall be deducted from the total of the added items in § 206.129 the following cash items:
(1) All amounts received by the mortgagee on account of the mortgage after the institution of foreclosure proceedings or the acquisition of the property or otherwise after due and payable.
(2) All amounts received by the mortgagee from any source relating to the property on account of rent or other income after deducting reasonable expenses incurred in handling the property.
(3) All cash retained by the mortgagee including amounts held or deposited for the account of the borrower or
to which it is entitled under the mortgage transaction that have not been applied in reduction of the outstanding loan balance.
(4) With regard to claims filed pursuant to successful short sales, all amounts received by the mortgagee relating to the sale of the property.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 206.146
Debenture interest rate.
(a) Debentures shall bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect as of the day the commitment was issued, or as of the date the mortgage was endorsed for insurance, whichever rate is higher. For applications involving mortgages originated under the single family Direct Endorsement program, debentures shall bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and on the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect as of the date the mortgage was endorsed for insurance;
(b) For mortgages endorsed for insurance after January 23, 2004, if an insurance claim is paid in cash, the debenture interest rate for purposes of calculating such a claim shall be the monthly average yield, for the month in which the default on the mortgage occurred, on United States Treasury Securities adjusted to a constant maturity of 10 years.

# Subpart D—Servicing Responsibilities
§ 206.201
Mortgage servicing generally; sanctions.
(a)
General.
This subpart identifies servicing practices that the Commissioner considers acceptable mortgage servicing practices of lending institutions servicing mortgages insured by the Commissioner. Failure to comply with this subpart shall not be a basis for denial of the insurance benefits, but a pattern of refusal or failure to comply will be cause for withdrawal of FHA mortgagee approval.
(b)
Importance of timely payments.
The paramount servicing responsibility is to make timely payments in full as required by the mortgage. Any failure of a mortgagee to make all payments required by the mortgage in a timely manner will be grounds for administrative sanctions authorized by regulations, including 2 CFR part 2424 (Debarment, Suspension, and Limited Denial of Participation), and 24 CFR part 25 (Mortgagee Review Board).
(c)
Responsibility for servicing.
(1) Servicing of insured mortgages must be performed by a mortgagee that is approved by FHA to service insured mortgages. The servicer must fully discharge the servicing responsibilities of the mortgagee as outlined in this part. The mortgagee shall remain fully responsible to the Commissioner for proper servicing, and the actions of its servicer shall be considered to be the actions of the mortgagee. The servicer also shall be fully responsible to the Commissioner for its actions as a servicer.
(2) Whenever servicing of any mortgage is transferred from one mortgagee or servicer to another, notice of the transfer of service shall be delivered:
(i) By the transferor mortgagee or servicer to the borrower. The notification shall be delivered not less than 15 days before the effective date of the transfer and shall contain the information required in 12 CFR 1024.33(b)(4); and
(ii) By the transferee mortgagee or servicer:
(A)
To the borrower.
The notification shall be delivered not less than 15 days before the effective date of the transfer and shall contain the information required in 12 CFR 1024.33(b)(4); and
(B)
To the Commissioner.
This notification shall be delivered within 15 days of the transfer, in a format prescribed by the Commissioner.
§ 206.203
Providing information
.
(a)
Statements of account activity.
The mortgagee shall provide to the borrower a monthly statement regarding the activity of the mortgage for each month, as well as for the calendar year. The statement shall summarize the total principal amount which has been paid to the borrower under the mortgage during that calendar year, the MIP paid to the Commissioner and charged to the borrower, the total amount of deferred interest added to
the outstanding loan balance, the total outstanding loan balance, and the current principal limit. The mortgagee shall include an accounting of all payments for property charges. The statement shall be provided to the borrower monthly until the mortgage is paid in full by the borrower. The mortgagee shall provide the borrower with a new payment plan every time it recalculates monthly payments or the payment option is changed. The statements shall be in a format acceptable to the Commissioner.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Servicing—Providing information.
(1) Mortgagees shall provide loan information to borrowers and arrange for individual loan consultation on request. The mortgagee must establish written procedures and controls to assure prompt responses to inquiries. One or more of the following means of making information readily available to borrowers is required:
(i) A servicing office staffed with competent personnel located within 200 miles of the property, capable of providing timely responses to requests for information. Complete records need not be maintained in such an office if the staff is able to secure needed information and pass it on to the borrower.
(ii) Toll-free telephone service at an office capable of providing needed information.
(2)(i) All borrowers must be informed of and reminded annually of the system available for obtaining answers to loan inquiries and the office from which needed information may be obtained. Toll-free telephone service need not be provided to a borrower other than at the office designated to serve the borrower nor other than from the immediate vicinity of the security property.
(ii) The mortgagee shall provide the borrower with the telephone number where the borrower may speak to employee(s) specifically designated by the mortgagee or its servicer to address inquiries concerning mortgages insured under this part. Such information shall be provided annually and whenever the servicer or the designated employee (or employee group) changes.
(3) Mortgagees must respond to FHA requests for information concerning individual accounts.
§ 206.205
Property charges
.
(a)
General.
(1) The borrower shall be responsible for the payment of the following property charges before or on the due date: ground rents, condominium fees, planned unit development fees, and homeowners' association fees.
(2) Payment of the following property charges are obligations of the borrower and shall be made through the LESA, by the borrower, or by the mortgagee, in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section on or before the due date: property taxes, including any special assessments levied by local or State law, hazard insurance premiums, and applicable flood insurance premiums.
(b)
Method of property charge payment
—(1)
LESA required.
For fixed or adjustable interest rate HECMs, based on the results of the Financial Assessment, the mortgagee may require the borrower to have a Fully-Funded LESA for the payment of property charges identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. For adjustable interest rate HECMs, based on the results of the Financial Assessment, the mortgagee may require the borrower to have a Partially-Funded LESA for the payment of property charges identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
LESA not required.
(i) If, based on the results of the Financial Assessment, the mortgagee does not require the borrower to have a LESA, the borrower shall elect one of the following at closing, whereby an election of the option in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) or (C) of this section cannot be cancelled by the borrower:
(A) Borrower is responsible for the independent payment of all property charges;
(B) Borrower elects to have a Fully-Funded LESA for the payment of property charges identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or
(C) For adjustable interest rate HECMs only, borrower elects to have the mortgagee pay property charges listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section which would have otherwise been required to be paid by the borrower, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) Through
Federal Register
notice, the Commissioner may establish
an incentive for voluntarily electing a LESA under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(c)
Life Expectancy Set Aside
—(1)
General.
(i) For a Fully-Funded LESA, the mortgagee shall:
(A) Make payments for property charges identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section before bills become delinquent and establish controls to ensure that the information needed to pay such bills is obtained on a timely basis;
(B) Make early payments to take advantage of a discount whenever it is to the borrower's advantage;
(C) Not charge the borrower penalties for late payments for property charges unless it can be shown that the penalty was the direct result of the borrower's error or omission;
(D) Ensure that LESA funds are not held in an escrow account;
(E) Add payments for property charges to the outstanding loan balance when the mortgagee disburses funds to the taxing authority or insurance carrier; and
(F) Provide written notification to the borrower and FHA within 30 days of the mortgagee receiving notification that a property charge payment is outstanding when there are no funds or insufficient funds remaining in the LESA, and recommend that the borrower speak with a HUD-Approved Housing Counselor.
(ii) For a Partially-Funded LESA, the mortgagee shall:
(A) Ensure that LESA funds are disbursed to the borrower semi-annually;
(B) Establish controls to ensure the taxing authority, insurance carrier, or both, received the borrower's payment;
(C) Ensure the LESA funds are not held in an escrow account;
(D) Add payments disbursed to the borrower for the payment of property charges identified in paragraph (a)(2) to the outstanding loan balance when the mortgagee disburses the funds; and
(E) Provide written notification to the borrower and FHA within 30 days of the mortgagee receiving notification that a property charge payment is outstanding when there are no funds or insufficient funds remaining in the LESA, and recommend that the borrower speak with a HUD-Approved Housing Counselor.
(2)
Calculation of property charges.
(i) The projected cost of property charges that will be required over the life expectancy of the youngest borrower shall be calculated based on a formula established by the Commissioner.
(ii) The mortgagee shall not require any LESA to be funded in excess of the projected cost of property charges.
(iii) For a Fully-Funded LESA, the amount withheld from the mortgage proceeds shall equal the projected cost of property charges.
(iv) For a Partially-Funded LESA, the amount withheld from the mortgage proceeds is based on a calculation of the gap in residual income and may not exceed the projected cost of property charges.
(v) Mortgagees shall use the
HECM Financial Assessment and Property Charge Guide,
or subsequent guide issued by the Commissioner, to determine whether a LESA is required; view the formula for calculating the projected costs of property charges; and view the formulas for calculating the Fully- and Partially-Funded LESA amounts.
(3)
Annual analysis of LESA.
Mortgagees shall perform an annual analysis of the LESA to determine whether the funds are sufficient to make required distributions for the next year. If funds are exhausted or there is an insufficient balance determination, the mortgagee shall notify the borrower, in writing and within 15 calendar days of the annual analysis of the determination, that LESA funds are exhausted or insufficient and the borrower will be responsible for the payment of property charges.
(4)
Non-payment of property charges
—(i)
Fully-Funded LESA for an adjustable interest rate HECM with no remaining funds.
(A) If the LESA is exhausted and the borrower fails to make property charge payments, the mortgagee shall use any available principal limit to pay the outstanding property charge amount in full and charge the borrower's account.
(B) The mortgagee shall provide the borrower with a written notification within 30 days of the mortgagee receiving notification that a property charge payment is outstanding. The borrower shall have 30 days to respond to the
mortgagee to explain the circumstances which resulted in the non-payment. (C) If there is no available principal limit from which the mortgagee can pay the property charge amount in full, and the borrower fails to pay the property charges, the mortgage will become due and payable under § 206.27(c)(2).
(ii)
Fully-Funded LESA for a fixed interest rate HECM with no remaining funds.
If the LESA is exhausted and the borrower fails to make property charge payments, the mortgage will become due and payable under § 206.27(c)(2).—
(iii)
Partially-Funded LESA with remaining funds.
If funds remain in the LESA and the borrower fails to make property charge payments, the mortgagee shall:
(A) Immediately suspend future semi-annual payments to the borrower from the Partially-Funded LESA, although scheduled and unscheduled payments from the borrower's payment option may continue;
(B) Disburse funds from the Partially-Funded LESA to pay the full amount owed for the past due property charge; and
(C) Provide written notification to the borrower, within 30 days of the mortgagee receiving notification that a property charge payment is outstanding, that funds were advanced from the Partially-Funded LESA to pay the outstanding property charge. The borrower shall have 30 days to respond to the mortgagee to explain the circumstances which resulted in the non-payment.
(iv)
Partially-Funded LESA with no remaining funds.
(A) If the LESA is exhausted and the borrower fails to make property charge payments when due, the mortgagee shall use any funds available in the principal limit to pay the outstanding property charge amount in full and charge the borrower's account.
(B) The mortgagee shall provide written notification to the borrower within 30 days of the mortgagee receiving notification that a property charge payment is outstanding. The borrower shall have 30 days to respond to the mortgagee to explain the circumstances which resulted in the non-payment.
(C) If there is no available principal limit from which the mortgagee can pay the property charge amount in full, and the borrower fails to pay the property charges, the mortgage will become due and payable under § 206.27(c)(2).
(5)
Unused LESA funds.
During a Deferral Period or when one of the events listed in § 206.27(c)(1) or (c)(2) have occurred, no unused funds from the LESA shall be disbursed.
(6)
Assignment of mortgage to the Commissioner.
If the insured first mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, or if payments are made through the second mortgage under the Demand Assignment process, the Commissioner is not required to assume the responsibility for property charge payments, but may continue to administer payments for property charges for a borrower with a Fully-Funded LESA or semi-annual disbursements to a borrower with a Partially-Funded LESA to the extent that there are any funds available in the LESA. For adjustable interest rate HECMs, if the LESA has a positive remaining balance but funds are insufficient to pay all property charges due or semi-annual disbursements to the borrower, the Commissioner may provide the remaining funds to the borrower as a line of credit.
(d)
Borrower elects to have mortgagee pay property charges.
If, based on the results of the Financial Assessment, the mortgagee does not require the borrower to have a LESA, for adjustable interest rate HECMs, the borrower may elect at closing to require the mortgagee to pay property charges identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by withholding funds from monthly payments due to the borrower or by charging such funds to a line of credit. This voluntary election to have funds withheld by the mortgagee to pay property charges cannot be canceled by the borrower at any time. If the sum of the outstanding loan balance and any unused set aside for repairs and servicing charges has reached the principal limit or the HECM proceeds are otherwise insufficient to pay the property charges, the borrower shall pay such property charges, even though the borrower elected payment to be made by the
mortgagee. Through
Federal Register
notice, the Commissioner may expand the borrower's options for property charge payment by the mortgagee.
(1)
Assignment of mortgage to the Commissioner.
If the insured first mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner under § 206.107(a)(1) or § 206.121(b), or if payments are made through the second mortgage under § 206.121(c), the Commissioner is not required to assume the mortgagee's responsibility under paragraph (d) of this section, despite the election by the borrower.
(2)
Mortgagee's responsibilities.
(i) Funds withheld from payments due to the borrower for property charges under paragraph (d) of this section shall not be paid into an escrow account. When property charges are actually paid, the mortgagee may add the amount paid to the outstanding loan balance.
(ii) It is the mortgagee's responsibility to make disbursements for property charges before bills become delinquent. Mortgagees shall establish controls to ensure that the information needed to pay such bills is obtained on a timely basis. Penalties for late payments for property charges must not be charged to the borrower unless it can be shown that the penalty was the direct result of the borrower's error or omission. Early payment of a bill to take advantage of a discount should be made whenever it is to the borrower's benefit.
(iii) Not later than the end of the second loan year the mortgagee shall establish a system for the periodic analysis of the amounts withheld from monthly payments. The analysis shall be performed at least once a year thereafter. The amount shall be adjusted, after analysis, to provide sufficient available funds to make anticipated disbursements during the ensuing year. The borrower shall be given at least ten days' notice of adjustment in the amount of withholding and an adequate explanation of the reasons for any change. When the amount withheld is analyzed in accordance with this paragraph, any surplus shall be paid to the borrower and added to the outstanding loan balance. Any shortage shall be corrected through increasing the monthly withholding as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section. If amounts withheld are insufficient to pay a property charge before it is delinquent, and the borrower could request a payment equal to the shortage under § 206.26(b), then the mortgagee shall pay the full property charge and treat payment of the shortage as a payment requested by the borrower under § 206.26(b).
(iv) The mortgagee's estimate of withholding amount shall be based on the best information available as to probable payments which will be required to be made for property charges in the coming year. If actual disbursements during the preceding year are used as the basis, the resulting estimate may deviate from those disbursements by as much as ten percent. The mortgagee may not require withholding in excess of the current estimated total annual requirement, unless expressly requested by the borrower. Each monthly withholding for property charges shall equal one-twelfth of the annual amounts as reasonably estimated by the mortgagee.
(e)
Borrower elects to pay property charges.
(1) If, based on the results of the Financial Assessment, the mortgagee does not require the borrower to have a LESA, the borrower may elect to be responsible for the independent payment of all property charges and shall pay all property charges in a timely manner and shall provide evidence of payment to the mortgagee as required in the mortgage.
(2)
Failure to pay property charges.
If the borrower fails to pay the property charges in a timely manner, and has not elected to have the mortgagee make the payments in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) The mortgagee may make the payment for the borrower and charge the borrower's account if there are available funds from which the mortgagee may make payment. If a pattern of missed payments occurs, the mortgagee may establish procedures to pay the property charges from the borrower's funds as if the borrower elected to have the mortgagee pay the property charges under this section.
(ii) The mortgagee shall provide a written notification to the borrower and notify the Commissioner that an
obligation of the mortgage has not been performed within 30 days of the mortgagee receiving notification of a missed payment when there are no available HECM funds from which the mortgagee may make payment. The borrower shall have 30 days to respond to the mortgagee to explain the circumstances which resulted in the non-payment. The mortgagee may provide any permissible loss mitigation made available by the Commissioner through notice. If the borrower is unable or unwilling to repay the mortgagee for any funds advanced by the mortgagee to pay property charges outside of a LESA, the mortgagee shall submit a due and payable request under the provisions of § 206.27(c)(2).
§ 206.207
Allowable charges and fees after endorsement
.
(a)
Reasonable and customary charges.
The mortgagee may collect reasonable and customary charges and fees from the borrower after insurance endorsement, only to the extent that the mortgagee is not reimbursed for such fees by FHA, by adding them to the outstanding loan balance, but only for: items listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; items authorized by the Commissioner under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or as provided at § 206.26(b)(1)(iii); or charges and fees related to additional documents described in § 206.27(b)(10) and related title search costs.
(1)(i) Charges for substitution of a hazard insurance policy at other than the expiration of term of the existing hazard insurance policy;
(ii) Attorney's and trustee's fees and expenses actually incurred (including the cost of appraisals and cost of advertising) when a case has been referred for foreclosure in accordance with the provisions of this part after a firm decision to foreclose if foreclosure is not completed because of a reinstatement of the account (no attorney's fee may be charged for the services of the mortgagee's or servicer's staff attorney or for the services of a collection attorney other than the attorney handling the foreclosure);
(iii) A trustee's fee if the security instrument in deed-of-trust states provides for payment of such a fee for execution of a satisfactory, release, or trustee's deed when the deed of trust is paid in full;
(iv) Where permitted by the security instrument, attorney's fees and expenses actually incurred in the defense of any suit or legal proceeding wherein the mortgagee shall be made a party thereto by reason of the mortgage (no attorney's fee may be charged for the services of the mortgagee's or servicer's staff attorney); and
(v) Property preservation expenses incurred pursuant to § 206.140.
(2) Such other reasonable and customary charges as may be authorized by the Commissioner, but which shall not include:
(i) Charges for servicing activities of the mortgagee or servicer;
(ii) Fees charged by independent tax service organizations which contract to furnish data and information necessary for the payment of property taxes;
(iii)
Satisfaction, termination,
or
reconveyance
fees when a mortgage is paid in full (other than as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section); or
(iv) The fee for recordation of a satisfaction of the mortgage in states where recordation is the responsibility of the mortgagee.
(b)
Servicing charges.
(1) If the following conditions are met, the mortgagee may include a servicing charge in the mortgage Note rate, starting with the month of loan closing and continuing through the life of the loan, including any applicable Deferral Period:
(i) The charge is authorized by the Commissioner;
(ii) The charge is selected by the mortgagee;
(iii) The charge is within the range established by the Commissioner, which shall be set, through notice, in an amount which shall be between 36 and 150 basis points. The Commissioner may, through a
Federal Register
notice for comment, extend the range of permissible charges below 36 basis points and above 150 basis points; and
(iv) The charge is disclosed as required by § 206.43 to the borrower in a manner acceptable to the Commissioner at the time the mortgagee provides the borrower with a loan application; or
(2) If the following conditions are met, the mortgagee may collect a fixed monthly charge for servicing activities of the mortgagee or servicer, starting with the month of loan closing and continuing through the life of the loan, including any applicable Deferral Period.
(i) The charge is authorized by the Commissioner;
(ii) The charge is disclosed as required by § 206.43 to the borrower in a manner acceptable to the Commissioner at the time the mortgagee provides the borrower with a loan application;
(iii) Amounts to pay the charge are set aside as a portion of the principal limit in accordance with § 206.19(f)(3); and
(iv) The charge is payable only from the Servicing Fee Set Aside.
§ 206.209
Prepayment.
(a)
No charge or penalty.
The borrower may repay a mortgage in full or prepay a mortgage in part without charge or penalty at any time, regardless of any limitations on repayment or prepayment stated in a mortgage.
(b)
Insurance and condemnation proceeds.
If insurance or condemnation proceeds are paid to the mortgagee, the principal limit and the outstanding loan balance shall be reduced by the amount of the proceeds not applied to restoration or repair of the damaged property.
(c) Funds received from a partial prepayment shall be applied in accordance with the Note.
§ 206.211
Determination of principal residence and contact information.
(a)
Annual certification.
At least once during each calendar year, the mortgagee shall verify the contact information for the borrower(s) and determine whether or not the property is the principal residence of at least one borrower. The mortgagee shall require each borrower to make an annual certification of his or her contact information and principal residence. As part of the annual certification, the borrower may designate an alternate individual as specified in § 206.40 to receive copies of the notifications from the mortgagee, and who the mortgagee shall contact if the borrower is unwilling or unable to reply to requests from the mortgagee. The mortgagee may rely on the certification unless it has information indicating that the certification may be false.
(b)
Requirements when an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse exists.
Where an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse has been identified, the mortgagee shall obtain an additional annual certification from the borrower confirming the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse remains his or her spouse and the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse continues to reside in the property as his or her principal residence.
(1)
Death of borrower with Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse.
If a borrower with an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse has died, the mortgagee shall obtain the annual certification in paragraph (a) of this section from the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse” shall replace the term “borrower” in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Failure of previously Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to reside in the property as his or her principal residence.
If a Non-Borrowing Spouse fails to reside in the property as his or her principal residence, the Non-Borrowing Spouse becomes an Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse and the deferral of due and payable status that would prevent the displacement of an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse will no longer be in effect. Once this occurs, the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse annual certifications are no longer required to be obtained.

# Subpart E—HECM Counselor Roster
§ 206.300
General.
This subpart provides for the establishment of the HECM Counselor Roster (Roster) and sets forth the requirements for the operation of the HECM Counselor Roster.
§ 206.302
Establishment of the HECM Counselor Roster.
(a)
HECM Counselor Roster.
FHA maintains a Roster of HECM counselors. Only counselors listed on the
Roster and employed by a participating agency are approved to provide HECM counseling. A prospective borrower applying for a HECM loan to be insured by FHA must receive the required HECM counseling from one of the counselors on the Roster.
(b)
Disclaimer.
The inclusion of a HECM counselor on the Roster does not create or imply a warranty or endorsement by FHA of the listed counselor to a prospective HECM borrower or to any other organization or individual, nor does it represent a warranty of any counseling provided by the listed HECM counselor. The inclusion of a counselor on the Roster means that a listed counselor has met the FHA-prescribed qualifications and conditions for inclusion on the Roster and that the counselor is approved to provide HECM counseling by telephone or face-to-face.
§ 206.304
Eligibility for placement on the HECM Counselor Roster.
(a)
Application.
To be considered for placement on the Roster, a housing counselor must apply to FHA in a form and in a manner prescribed by the Commissioner.
(b)
Eligibility.
FHA will approve an application for placement on the Roster if the application demonstrates that the housing counselor:
(1) Is employed by a HUD-approved housing counseling agency or an affiliate of a HUD-approved intermediary or State housing finance agency;
(2) Successfully passed a standardized HECM counseling exam administered by FHA, or a party selected by FHA, within the last 3 years. In order to maintain eligibility, a HECM counselor must successfully pass a standardized HECM counseling exam every 3 years;
(3) Received training and education related to HECMs within the prior 2 years;
(4) Has access to and is supported by technology that enables FHA to track the results of the counseling offered to each loan applicant,
e.g.,
what action(s), if any, did the client take after receiving the HECM counseling; and
(5) Is not listed on:
(i) The General Services Administration's Suspension and Debarment List;
(ii) HUD's Limited Denial of Participation List; or
(iii) HUD's Credit Alert Interactive Response System.
§ 206.306
Removal from the HECM Counselor Roster.
(a)
General.
FHA reserves the right to remove a HECM counselor from the Roster, in accordance with this section.
(b)
Cause for removal.
Cause for removal of a HECM counselor from the Roster includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Failure to comply with the education and training requirements of § 206.308;
(2) Failure to respond within a reasonable time to HUD inquiries or requests for documentation;
(3) Misrepresentation or fraudulent statements;
(4) Promotion, representation, or recommendation of any specific mortgagee;
(5) Failure to comply with applicable fair housing and civil rights requirements;
(6) Failure to comply with applicable statutes and regulations;
(7) Failure to comply with applicable statutory counseling requirements found at section 255(f) of the National Housing Act, which include, but are not limited to, providing information about: options other than a HECM, the financial implications of entering into a HECM, the tax consequences of a HECM, and any other information that HUD or the applicant may request;
(8) Failure to maintain any registration, license, or certification requirements of a State or local authority;
(9) Unsatisfactory performance in providing counseling to HECM loan applicants. FHA may determine that a HECM counselor's performance is unsatisfactory based on a review of counseling files or other monitoring activities, or if the counselor fails to employ the minimum competencies, as measured by the FHA-administered HECM counseling exam; or
(10) For any other reason HUD determines to be so serious as to justify an administrative sanction.
(c)
Automatic removal from HECM Counselor Roster for failure to maintain required State or local licensure.
A HECM
counselor who is required to maintain a State or local registration, license, or certification and whose registration or certification is revoked, suspended, or surrendered will be automatically suspended from the Roster until FHA receives evidence demonstrating that the local- or State-imposed sanction has been lifted.
(d)
Removal procedure.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following procedures apply to removal of a HECM counselor from the Roster.
(1) FHA will give the HECM counselor written notice of the proposed removal. The notice will state the reasons for and the duration of the proposed removal.
(2) The HECM counselor will have 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice (or such time as described in the notice, but in no event less than a period of 30 days) to submit a written appeal of the proposed removal, along with a written request for a conference.
(3) An FHA official will review the appeal and render a response affirming, modifying, or canceling the removal. The FHA official will not be a person who was involved in FHA's initial removal decision. FHA will respond with a decision within 30 days after the date of receiving the appeal or, if the HECM counselor has requested a conference, within 30 days after the conference was held. FHA may extend the 30-day period by providing written notice to the counselor.
(4) If the HECM counselor does not submit a timely written response, the removal will be effective 31 days after the date of FHA's initial removal notice (or after the period provided in the notice, if longer than 30 days). If a written response is submitted, and the removal decision is affirmed or modified, the removal will be effective on the date of FHA's notice affirming or modifying the initial removal decision.
(e)
Maximum time period of removal.
The maximum time period for removal from the Roster is 12 months from the effective date of removal for all removed counselors. A counselor who has been removed must apply for reinstatement on the Roster.
(f)
Placement on the Roster after removal.
A counselor who has been removed from the Roster must apply for reinstatement on the Roster (in accordance with § 206.304) after the period of the counselor's removal from the Roster has expired. FHA may require the counselor to retake and pass the HECM exam for reinstatement when the reason for removal from the Roster was particularly egregious. Typically, the counselor will not be required to take and pass the HECM exam; however, FHA must be ensured by the counselor that the HECM counseling requirements are understood and will be followed. An application from a counselor for reinstatement on the Roster will be rejected if the period of the counselor's removal from the Roster has not expired.
(g)
Voluntary removal.
A HECM counselor will be removed from the Roster upon FHA's receipt of a written request from the counselor.
(h)
Other action.
Nothing in this section prohibits HUD from taking such other action against a HECM counselor or from seeking any other remedy against a counselor available to HUD by statute or other authority.
§ 206.308
Continuing education requirements of counselors listed on the HECM Counselor Roster.
A HECM counselor listed on the Roster must receive, on a continuing basis, training, education, and technical assistance related to HECMs. The HECM counselor must maintain evidence of the successful completion of such continuing education, and such evidence must be made available to FHA upon request. FHA will consider a HECM counselor's successful completion of a HECM course no less than once every 2 years as satisfying the requirements of this section.
Pt. 207

# PART 207—MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE INSURANCE

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
Sec.
207.1
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
207.251
Definitions.

# Premiums
207.252
First, second and third premiums.
207.252a
Premiums—operating loss loans.
207.252b
Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to section 223(f) of the Act.
207.252c
Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to Section 238(c) of the Act.
207.252d
Mortgagee's late charge.
207.252e
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.
207.253
Termination by prepayment and voluntary termination.
207.253a
Termination of insurance contract
207.254
Changes in premiums; manner of publication.

# Rights and Duties of Mortgagee Under the Contract of Insurance
207.255
Defaults for purposes of insurance claim.
207.256
Notice to the Commissioner of default.
207.256a
Reinstatement of defaulted mortgage.
207.256b
Modification of mortgage terms.
207.257
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
207.258
Insurance claim requirements.
207.258a
Title requirements.
207.258b
Partial payment of claim.
207.259
Insurance benefits.
207.259a
Waiver of title objection; mortgages formerly Commissioner-held.
207.260
Maintenance and inspection of property.
207.261
Capturing excess bond proceeds.

# Rights in Housing Fund
207.263
Responsibility for servicing.

# Amendments
207.499
Effect of amendments.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701z-11(e), 1709(c)(1), 1713, 1715(b), and 1735d; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24537, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
§ 207.1
Eligibility requirements.
The eligibility requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1713), as amended.
[61 FR 14405, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
§ 207.251
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(a) The term
Commissioner
means the Federal Housing Commissioner.
(b) The term
act
means the National Housing Act, as amended.
(c) The term
mortgage
means such a first lien upon real estate and other property as is commonly given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the State, district or territory in which the real estate is located, together with the credit instrument or instruments, if any, secured thereby. In any instance where an operating loss loan is involved, the term shall include both the original mortgage and the instrument securing the operating loss loan.
(d) The term
insured mortgage
means a mortgage which has been insured by the endorsement of the credit instrument by the Commissioner, or his duly authorized representative.
(e) The term
contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by such endorsement and includes the terms, conditions and provisions of this part and of the National Housing Act.
(f) The term
mortgagor
means the original borrower under a mortgage and its successors and such of its assigns as are approved by the Commissioner.
(g) The term
mortgagee
means the original lender under a mortgage its successors and such of its assigns as are approved by the Commissioner, and includes the holders of the credit instruments issued under a trust indenture, mortgage or deed of trust pursuant to which such holders act by and through a trustee therein named.

# Premiums
§ 207.252
First, second and third premiums.
The mortgagee, upon the initial endorsement of the mortgage for insurance, shall pay to the Commissioner a first mortgage insurance premium equal to not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the
original face amount of the mortgage. The specific premium to be charged will be set forth in
Federal Register
notice.
(a) If the date of the first principal payment is more than one year following the date of such initial insurance endorsement, the mortgagee, upon the anniversary of such insurance date, shall pay a second premium equal to not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the original face amount of the mortgage. On the date of the first principal payment, the mortgagee shall pay a third premium equal to not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the said three premiums shall equal the sum of:
(1) One percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of initial insurance endorsement; and
(2) Not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent per annum as the Secretary shall determine of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the first anniversary of the date of initial insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(b) If the date of the first principal payment is one year, or less than one year following the date of such initial insurance endorsement, the mortgagee, upon such first principal payment date, shall pay a second premium equal to not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the said two premiums shall equal the sum of:
(1) One percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of initial insurance endorsement to the date of first principal payment; and
(2) Not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of the first principal payment.
(c) Where the credit instrument is initially and finally endorsed for insurance pursuant to a Commitment to Insure Upon Completion, the mortgagee on the date of the first principal payment shall pay a second premium equal to not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following such first principal payment date which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the said two premiums shall equal the sum of not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent per annum as the Secretary shall determine of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(d) Until the mortgage is paid in full, or until receipt by the Commissioner of an application for insurance benefits, or until the contract of insurance is otherwise terminated with the consent of the Commissioner, the mortgagee, on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment, shall pay an annual mortgage insurance premium equal to not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date on which such premium becomes payable.
(e) The premiums payable on and after the date of the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization provisions without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
(f) Premiums shall be payable in cash or in debentures at par plus accrued interest. All premiums are payable in advance and no refund can he made of any portion thereof except as hereinafter provided in this subpart.
(g) Any change in mortgage insurance premiums pursuant to this section will apply to new commitments issued or reissued on or after August 1, 2001 and any notice setting mortgage insurance premiums issued pursuant to this section.
[66 FR 35072, July 2, 2001]
§ 207.252a
Premiums—operating loss loans.
(a) The mortgagee, upon the insurance endorsement of the increase loan credit instrument covering the operating loss loan, shall pay to the Commissioner a first mortgage insurance premium of not less than one-fourth of one percent nor more than one percent as the Secretary shall determine of the original amount of the loan.
(b) The provisions of paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Sec. 207.252 shall apply to operating loss loans.
[66 FR 35073, July 2, 2001]
§ 207.252b
Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to section 223(f) of the Act.
(a) The mortgagee, upon the initial-final endorsement of the mortgage for insurance pursuant to a Commitment to Insure Upon Completion issued in accordance with § 207.32a, shall pay to the Commissioner a first mortgage insurance premium equal to one percent of the original face amount of the mortgage.
(b) The mortgagee, on the date of the first principal payment, shall pay a second premium equal to one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following such first principal payment date which shall be adjusted as of that date so that the aggregate of the first and second premiums shall equal the sum of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(c) The provisions of paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of § 207.252 shall apply to mortgages insured pursuant to section 223(f) of the Act.
[40 FR 10177, Mar. 5, 1975]
§ 207.252c
Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to section 238(c) of the Act.
All of the provisions of §§ 207.252 and 207.252a governing mortgage insurance premiums shall apply to mortgages insured under this subpart pursuant to section 238(c) of the Act except that all mortgage insurance premiums due on such mortgages in accordance with §§ 207.252 and 207.252a shall be calculated on the basis of one percent.
[42 FR 59674, Nov. 18, 1977]
§ 207.252d
Mortgagee's late charge.
Mortgage insurance premiums which are paid to the Commissioner more than 15 days after the billing date or due date, whichever is later, shall include a late charge of 4 percent of the amount of the payment due, except that no late charge shall be required with respect to any case for which HUD fails to render a proper billing to the mortgagee.
[43 FR 60154, Dec. 26, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 23067, Apr. 18, 1979]
§ 207.252e
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.
In the cases that the Commissioner deems appropriate, the Commissioner may require, by means of instructions communicated to all affected mortgagees, that mortgage insurance premiums be remitted electronically.
[63 FR 1303, Jan. 8, 1998]
§ 207.253
Termination by prepayment and voluntary termination.
All rights under the insurance contract and all obligations to pay future insurance premiums shall terminate on the following conditions:
(a)
Termination by prepayment.
Notice of the prepayment in full of the mortgage or loan shall be given to the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, within 30 days from the date of prepayment. The insurance contract shall terminate, effective as of the date of prepayment. No adjusted premium charge shall be due the Commissioner on account of such termination by prepayment.
(b)
Termination by voluntary agreement.
Receipt by the Commissioner of a written request, by the mortgagor and
mortgagee or lender for termination of the insurance on the mortgage or loan, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, accompanied by the original credit instrument for cancellation of the insurance endorsement and the remittance of all sums to which the Commissioner is entitled. The termination shall become effective as of the date these requirements are met. No voluntary termination charge shall be due the Commissioner on account of such termination by voluntary agreement.
(c) Upon termination of the mortgage or loan insurance contract by a payment in full or by a voluntary termination, the Commissioner shall refund to the mortgagee or lender for the account of the mortgagor or borrower an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the current annual mortgage insurance premium theretofore paid, which is applicable to the portion of the year subsequent to (1) the date of the prepayment or (2) the effective date of the voluntary termination of the contract of insurance.
(d) Notwithstanding any provision in the mortgage instrument, this section shall apply to all mortgage or loan insurance contracts terminated by either prepayment or voluntary termination where: (1) The mortgage is prepaid in full or (2) the Commissioner receives a request for voluntary termination, on or after May 1, 1972.
[37 FR 8662, Apr. 29, 1972]
§ 207.253a
Termination of insurance contract.
(a)
Reason for termination.
The happening of any of the following events shall constitute an additional reason for terminating the contract of insurance in cases where the mortgagee has elected to convey the property to the Commissioner:
(1) The acquisition by the mortgagee of the mortgaged property without conveying it to the Commissioner.
(2) The acquisition of the property at the foreclosure sale by a party other than the mortgagee.
(3) The redemption of the property after foreclosure.
(4) Notice given by the mortgagee after the foreclosure and during the redemption period that it will not tender the property to the Commissioner.
(b)
Notice of termination.
No contract of insurance shall be terminated until the mortgagee has given written notice thereof to the Commissioner within 30 days from the happening of any one of the events set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Effective termination date.
The Commissioner shall notify the mortgagee that the contract of insurance has been terminated and the effective termination date. The termination shall be effective as of the date any one of the events set forth in paragraph (a) of this section occur.
(d)
Effect of termination.
Upon termination of the contract of insurance the obligation to pay any subsequent MIP shall cease and all rights of the mortgagor and mortgagee shall be terminated.
[36 FR 24537, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8662, Apr. 29, 1972]
§ 207.254
Changes in premiums; manner of publication.
Notice of future premium changes will be published in the
Federal Register.
The Department will propose MIP changes for multifamily mortgage insurance programs and provide a 30-day public comment period for the purpose of accepting comments on whether the proposed changes are appropriate. After the comments have been considered, the Department will publish a final notice announcing the premiums for each program and their effective date. The provisions of paragraph (g) of 24 CFR 207.252 shall apply to any notice of future premium changes published pursuant to this section.
[66 FR 35073, July 2, 2001]

# Rights and Duties of Mortgagee Under the Contract of Insurance
§ 207.255
Defaults for purposes of insurance claim.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following shall be considered a default under the terms of a mortgage insured under this subpart:
(i) Failure of the mortgagor to make any payment due under the mortgage (also referred to as a “Monetary Event
of Default” in certain mortgage security instruments); or
(ii) A material violation of any other covenant under the provisions of the mortgage, if because of such violation, the mortgagee has accelerated the debt, subject to any necessary HUD approval (also referred to as a “Covenant Event of Default” in certain mortgage security instruments).
(2) For purposes of a mortgagee filing an insurance claim with the Commissioner, the failure of the mortgagor to make any payment due under an operating loss loan or under the original mortgage shall be considered a default under both the operating loss loan and original mortgage.
(3) If a default as defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section continues for a minimum period of 30 days, the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of the insurance provided for the mortgage, subject to the procedures in this subpart.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the date of default shall be:
(i) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment that subsequent payments by the mortgagor are insufficient to cover when those subsequent payments are applied by the mortgagee to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they became due; or
(ii) The date of the first uncorrected violation of a covenant or obligation for which the mortgagee has accelerated the debt.
(5) For multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance on or after September 1, 2011, the regulations of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply, unless the mortgagor demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that financial hardship to the mortgagor would result from application of the regulations in paragraph (a) of this section due to the reasonable expectations of the mortgagor that the transaction would close under the regulations in effect prior to September 1, 2011, in which case, the regulations of paragraph (b) shall apply.
(b)(1) For multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance before September 1, 2011, and for multifamily project mortgages insured under section 232 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715w), and section 242 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-7), the following shall be considered a default under the terms of a mortgage insured under this subpart:
(i) Failure of the mortgagor to make any payment due under the mortgage; or
(ii) Failure to perform any other covenant under the provisions of the mortgage, if the mortgagee, because of such failure, has accelerated the debt.
(2) In the case of an operating loss loan, the failure of the mortgagor to make any payment due under such loan or under the original mortgage shall be considered a default under both the loan and original mortgage.
(3) If such defaults, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, continue for a period of 30 days the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of the insurance hereinafter provided.
(4) Except for mortgages insured under section 232 of the Act, for the purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the date of default shall be considered as:
(i) The date of the first uncorrected failure to perform a covenant or obligation; or
(ii) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment which subsequent payments by the mortgagor are insufficient to cover when applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they became due.
(5) For mortgages insured under section 232 of the Act, for purposes of this section, the date of default shall be considered as:
(i) The first date on which the borrower has failed to pay the debt when due as a result of the lender's acceleration of the debt because of the borrower's uncorrected failure to perform a covenant or obligation under the regulatory agreement or security instrument; or
(ii) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment that subsequent payments by the borrower are insufficient to cover when applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they become due.
[76 FR 24370, May 2, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 55135, Sept. 7, 2012]
§ 207.256
Notice to the Commissioner of default.
(a) If a default as defined in § 207.255(a) or (b) is not cured within the grace period of 30 days provided under § 207.255(a)(3) or (b)(3), the mortgagee must, within 30 days after the date of the end of the grace period, notify the Commissioner of the default, in the manner prescribed in 24 CFR part 200, subpart B.
(b) The mortgagee must give notice to the Commissioner, in the manner prescribed in 24 CFR part 200, subpart B, of the mortgagor's violation of any covenant, whether or not the mortgagee has accelerated the debt.
[76 FR 24370, May 2, 2011]
§ 207.256a
Reinstatement of defaulted mortgage.
If, after default and prior to the completion of foreclosure proceedings, the mortgagor cures the default, the insurance shall continue on the mortgage as if a default had not occurred, provided the mortgagee gives notice of reinstatement to the Commissioner, in the manner prescribed in 24 CFR part 200, subpart B.
[76 FR 24370, May 2, 2011]
§ 207.256b
Modification of mortgage terms.
(a) The mortgagor and the mortgagee may, with the approval of the Commissioner, enter into an agreement that extends the time for curing a default under the mortgage or modifies the payment terms of the mortgage.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2), the Commissioner's approval of the type of agreement specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be given, unless the mortgagor agrees in writing that, during such period as the mortgage continues to be in default, and payments by the mortgagor to the mortgagee are less than the amounts required under the terms of the original mortgage, the mortgagor or mortgagee, as may be appropriate in the particular situation, will hold in trust for disposition, as directed by the Commissioner, all rents or other funds derived from the secured property that are not required to meet actual and necessary expenses arising in connection with the operation of such property, including amortization charges, under the mortgage.
(2) For multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance before September 1, 2011, and for multifamily project mortgages insured under section 232 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715w), and section 242 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-7), the Commissioner's approval of the type of agreement specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be given unless the mortgagor agrees in writing that, during such period as payments to the mortgagee are less than the amounts required under the terms of the original mortgage, the mortgagor will hold in trust for disposition as directed by the Commissioner all rents or other funds derived from the property which are not required to meet actual and necessary expenses arising in connection with the operation of such property, including amortization charges, under the mortgage.
(3) For multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance on or after September 1, 2011, the regulations of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply, unless the mortgagor demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that financial hardship to the mortgagor would result from application of the regulations in paragraph (b)(1) of this section due to the reasonable expectations of the mortgagor that the transaction would close under the regulations in effect prior to September 1, 2011, in which case, the regulations of paragraph (b)(2) shall apply.
(c) The Commissioner may exempt a mortgagor from the requirement of paragraph (b) of this section in any case where the Commissioner determines that such exemption does not jeopardize the interests of the United States.
[76 FR 24370, May 2, 2011]
§ 207.257
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
Upon receipt of notice of violation of a covenant, as provided for in § 207.256(b), or otherwise being apprised of the violation of a covenant, the
Commissioner reserves the right to require the mortgagee to accelerate payment of the outstanding principal balance due in order to protect the interests of the Commissioner.
[76 FR 24371, May 2, 2011]
§ 207.258
Insurance claim requirements.
(a)
Alternative election by mortgagee.
(1) When the mortgagee becomes eligible to receive mortgage insurance benefits pursuant to § 207.255(a)(3) or (b)(3), the mortgagee must, within 45 calendar days after the date of eligibility, such period is referred to as the “Eligibility Notice Period” for purposes of this section, give the Commissioner notice of its intention to file an insurance claim and of its election either to assign the mortgage to the Commissioner, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, or to acquire and convey title to the Commissioner, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. Notice of this election must be provided to the Commissioner in the manner prescribed in 24 CFR part 200, subpart B. HUD may extend the Eligibility Notice Period at the request of the mortgagee under the following conditions:
(i) The request must be made to and approved by HUD prior to the 45th day after the date of eligibility; and
(ii) The approval of an extension shall in no way prejudice the mortgagee's right to file its notice of its intention to file an insurance claim and of its election either to assign the mortgage to the Commissioner or to acquire and convey title to the Commissioner within the 45-day period or any extension prescribed by the Commissioner.
(2) For mortgages funded with the proceeds of state or local bonds, Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed securities, participation certificates, or other bond obligations specified by the Commissioner (such as an agreement under which the insured mortgagee has obtained the mortgage funds from third-party investors and has agreed in writing to repay such investors at a stated interest rate and in accordance with a fixed repayment schedule), any of which contains a lock-out or prepayment premium, in the event of a default during the term of the prepayment lock-out or prepayment premium, and for any mortgage insured under section 232 of the Act, the mortgagee must:
(i) Request a 90-day extension of the deadline for filing the notice of the mortgagee's intention to file an insurance claim and the mortgagee's election to assign the mortgage or acquire and convey title in accordance with the mortgagee certificate, which HUD may further extend at the written request of the mortgagee;
(ii) Assist the mortgagor in arranging refinancing to cure the default and avert an insurance claim, if the Commissioner grants the requested (or a shorter) extension of notice filing deadline;
(iii) Report to the Commissioner at least monthly on any progress in arranging refinancing;
(iv) Cooperate with the Commissioner in taking reasonable steps in accordance with prudent business practices to avoid an insurance claim;
(v) Require successors or assigns to certify in writing that they agree to be bound by these conditions for the remainder of the term of the prepayment lock-out or prepayment premium; and
(vi) After commencement of amortization of the refinanced mortgage, notify HUD of a delinquency when a payment is not received by the 10th day after the date the payment is due.
(3) For multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance on or after September 1, 2011, the regulations of paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall apply, unless the mortgagor demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that financial hardship to the mortgagor would result from application of the regulations in paragraph (a)(2) of this section due to the reasonable expectations of the mortgagor that the transaction would close under the regulations in effect prior to September 1, 2011, in which case, the regulations of paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply.
(4)
Acknowledgment of election.
For mortgages insured pursuant to section 232 of the Act, if the lender provides notice to the Commissioner of its election either to assign the mortgage to the Commissioner or to acquire and
convey title to the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall, not later than 90 calendar days after the expiration of the Eligibility Notice Period, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as the same may have been extended, acknowledge and accept, or reject for cause, pursuant to program requirements, the lender's election, provided that the Commissioner may, in the Commissioner's discretion, extend such 90-day period by no more than an additional 90 calendar days if the Commissioner determines that such an extension is in HUD's interest.
(b)
Assignment of mortgage to Commissioner—
(1)
Timeframe; request for extension.
(i) If the mortgagee elects to assign the mortgage to the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall, at any time within 30 calendar days after the date HUD acknowledges the notice of election, file its application for insurance benefits and assign to the Commissioner, in such manner as the Commissioner may require, any applicable credit instrument and the realty and chattel security instruments.
(ii) The Commissioner may extend this 30-day period by written notice that a partial payment of insurance claim under § 207.258b is being considered. A mortgagee may consider failure to receive a notice of an extension approval by the end of the 30-day time period a denial of the request for an extension.
(iii) The extension shall be for such term, not to exceed 60 days, as the Commissioner prescribes; however, the Commissioner's consideration of a partial payment of claim, or the Commissioner's request that a mortgagee accept partial payment of a claim in accordance with § 207.258b, shall in no way prejudice the mortgagee's right to file its application for full insurance benefits within either the 30-day period or any extension prescribed by the Commissioner.
(iv) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(6) of this section shall also be met by the mortgagee.
(2)
Notice of assignment.
On the date the assignment of the mortgage is filed for record, the mortgagee must notify the Commissioner, in the manner prescribed in 24 CFR part 200, subpart B, of such assignment, and must also notify the FHA Comptroller by telegram of such recordation.
(3)
Warranty of mortgagee.
The assignment shall be made without recourse or warranty, except that the mortgagee shall warrant that:
(i) No act or omission of the mortgagee has impaired the validity and priority of the mortgage.
(ii) The mortgage is prior to all mechanics' and materialmen's liens filed on record subsequent to the recording of the mortgage, regardless of whether such liens attached prior to the recording date.
(iii) The mortgage is prior to all liens and encumbrances which may have attached or defects which may have arisen subsequent to the recording of the mortgage, except such liens or other matters as may be approved by the Commissioner.
(iv) The amount stated in the instrument of assignment is actually due under the mortgage and there are no offsets or counterclaims against such amount.
(v) The mortgagee has a good right to assign the mortgage.
(4)
Chattel lien warranty.
In assigning its security interest in chattels, including materials, located on the premises covered by the mortgage, or its security interest in building components stored either on-site or off-site at the time of the assignment, the mortgagee shall warrant that:
(i) No act or omission of the mortgagee has impaired the validity or priority of the lien created by the chattel security instruments; and
(ii) The mortgagee has a good right to assign the security instruments; and
(iii) The chattel security instruments are a first lien on the items covered by the instruments except for such other liens or encumbrances as may be approved by the Commissioner.
(5)
Items delivered by mortgagee.
The mortgagee shall deliver to the Commissioner, within 45 days after the assignment is filed for record, the items enumerated below:
(i) An assignment of all claims of the mortgagee against the mortgagor or others arising out of the mortgage transaction.
(ii) All policies of title or other insurance or surety bonds or other guaranties, and any and all claims thereunder, including evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that the effective date of the original title coverage has been extended to include the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner.
(iii) All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers, and accounts relating to the mortgage transaction.
(iv) All property of the mortgagor held by the mortgagee or to which it is entitled (other than the cash items which are to be retained by the mortgagee) pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(v) Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require.
(6)
Disposition of cash items.
The following cash items shall either be retained by the mortgagee or delivered to the Commissioner in accordance with instructions to be issued by the Commissioner at the time the insurance claim is filed:
(i) Any balance of the mortgage loan not advanced to the mortgagor.
(ii) Any cash held by the mortgagee or its agents or to which it is entitled, including deposits made for the account of the mortgagor, and which have not been applied in reduction of the principal of the mortgage indebtedness.
(iii) All funds held by the mortgagee for the account of the mortgagor received pursuant to any other agreement.
(iv) The amount of any undrawn balance under a letter of credit used in lieu of a cash deposit.
(c)
Conveyance of title to Commissioner.
If the mortgagee elects to acquire and convey title to the Commissioner, the following requirements shall be met:
(1)
Alternative actions by mortgagee.
At any time within a period of 30 days after the date of the notice of such election, the mortgagee shall take one of the alternative actions in paragraph (c) (2) or (3) of this section.
(2)
Foreclosure of mortgage.
The mortgagee may elect to commence foreclosure proceedings. If the laws of the State where the property is located do not permit institution of foreclosure within such 30-day period, foreclosure shall be commenced not less than 30 days after such action can be taken. Under such proceedings, the mortgagee shall take one of the following actions:
(i) Obtain possession of the mortgaged property and the income therefrom through the voluntary surrender thereof by the mortgagor.
(ii) Institute and prosecute with reasonable diligence, proceedings for the appointment of a receiver to manage the mortgaged property and collect income therefrom.
(iii) Proceed to exercise such other rights and remedies as may be available to it for the protection and preservation of the mortgaged property and to obtain the income therefrom under the mortgage and the law of the particular jurisdiction.
(iv) With the prior approval of the Commissioner, exercise the power of sale under a deed of trust.
(3)
Acquisition of title and possession.
The mortgagee, with the approval of the Commissioner, may elect to acquire possession of, and title to, the mortgaged property by means other than foreclosure. With the prior approval of the Commissioner, title may be transferred directly to the Commissioner.
(4)
Notice of foreclosure.
The mortgagee shall given written notice to the Commissioner within 30 days after the institution of foreclosure proceedings and shall exercise reasonable diligence in prosecuting such proceedings to completion. Any developments which might delay the consummation of such proceedings shall be promptly reported to the Commissioner.
(5)
Transfer by mortgagee.
After acquiring title to and possession of the property, the mortgagee shall (within 30 days of such acquisition) transfer title and possession of the property to the Commissioner. The transfer shall be made in such manner as the Commissioner may require. On the date the deed is filed for record, the mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner on a form prescribed by him of the filing of such conveyance, and shall also notify the FHA Assistant Commissioner-Comptroller by telegram of such recordation.
(6)
Filing of deed and application.
The mortgagee shall file its application for insurance benefits at the time of filing for record of the deed conveying the property to the Commissioner.
(7)
Deed covenants and documents.
The deed conveying the property to the Commissioner shall contain covenants satisfactory to the Commissioner. The original deed shall be forwarded to the Commissioner as soon as received from the recording authority. The following documents shall be forwarded with the deed:
(i) A bill of sale covering any personal property to which the mortgagee is entitled by reason of the mortgage transaction or by the acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
(ii) An assignment of all claims of the mortgagee against the mortgagor or others arising out of the mortgage transaction and out of the foreclosure proceedings or other means by which the property was acquired.
(iii) An assignment of any claims on account of title insurance and fire or other hazard insurance, except claims which have been released with the prior approval of the Commissioner.
(8)
Title evidence.
Evidence of title, satisfactory to the Commissioner and meeting the requirements of § 207.258a shall be furnished to the Commissioner (without expense to him) within 45 days of the filing for record of the deed conveying the property to him.
(9)
Disposition of cash items.
The provisions of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, relating to the retention or delivery of cash items, shall be applicable to cases involving the conveyance of property to the Commissioner.
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2535-0061)
[36 FR 24537, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 44 FR 8195, Feb. 8, 1979; 50 FR 38786, Sept. 25, 1985; 51 FR 27838, Aug. 4, 1986; 64 FR 4770, Jan. 29, 1999; 76 FR 24371, May 2, 2011; 77 FR 55135, Sept. 7, 2012]
§ 207.258a
Title requirements.
(a)
Form of title evidence.
The title evidence submitted with a conveyance of the property to the Commissioner shall be in the form of an owner's policy of title insurance, except that, if an abstract and attorney's opinion were accepted by the Commissioner at the time of insurance, the title evidence may be in such form. The title evidence shall be effective on or after the date of the recording of the conveyance to the Commissioner.
(b)
Content of title evidence.
To be satisfactory to the Commissioner, the title evidence covering the property conveyed to him shall show the same title vested in the Commissioner as was vested in the mortgagor as of the date of the mortgage was filed for record, with the exception of such liens or other matters affecting the title as may be approved by the Commissioner.
§ 207.258b
Partial payment of claim.
(a) Whenever the Commissioner receives notice under § 207.258 of a mortgagee's intention to file an insurance claim and to assign the mortgage to the Commissioner, the Commissioner may request the mortgagee, in lieu of assignment, to accept partial payment of the claim under the mortgage insurance contract and to recast the mortgage, under such terms and conditions as the Commissioner may determine.
(b) The Commissioner may request the mortgagee to participate in a partial payment of claim in lieu of assignment only after a determination that partial payment would be less costly to the Federal government than other reasonable alternatives for maintaining the low- and moderate-income character of the project. This determination shall be based upon the findings listed below and such other findings as the Commissioner deems appropriate:
(1) The mortgagee is entitled, under § 207.255, to assign the mortgage in exchange for the payment of insurance benefits;
(2) The relief resulting from partial payment, when considered with other resources available to the project, would be sufficient to restore the financial viability of the project;
(3) The project is, or can at reasonable cost be made, structurally sound;
(4) The management of the project is satisfactory to the Commissioner; and
(5) The default under the insured mortgage was beyond the control of the mortgagor.
(c) Partial payment of a claim under this section shall be made only when:
(1) The project is, or potentially could serve as, a low- and moderate-income housing resource;
(2) The property covered by the mortgage is free and clear of all liens other than the insured first mortgage and such other liens as the Commissioner may have approved;
(3) The mortgagee has voluntarily agreed to accept partial payment of the insurance claim under the mortgage insurance contract and to recast the remaining mortgage amount under terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner; and
(4) The mortgagor has agreed to repay to the Commissioner an amount equal to the partial payment, with the obligation secured by a second mortgage on the project containing terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner. The terms of the second mortgage will be determined on a case-by-case basis to assure that the estimated project income will be sufficient to cover estimated operating expenses and debt service on the recast insured mortgage. The Commissioner may provide for postponed amortization of the second mortgage.
(d) Payment of insurance benefits under this section shall be in cash. The Commissioner shall waive the deduction of one percent of the mortgage funds advanced to the mortgagor, provided for in § 207.259(b)(2)(iv), with respect to a partial payment of a claim under this section. The items referred to in § 207.258(b)(4) shall either be retained by the mortgagee or delivered to the Commissioner in accordance with instructions to be issued by the Commissioner with respect to a partial payment of claim under this section.
(e) Lenders receiving a partial payment of claim following the Commissioner's endorsement of the Mortgage for full insurance under parts 251, 252, or 255 of this chapter, will pay HUD a fee in an amount set forth through
Federal Register
notice. HUD, in its discretion, may collect this fee or deduct the fee from any payment it makes in the claim process.
[50 FR 38786, Sept. 25, 1985, as amended at 61 FR 49037, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 207.259
Insurance benefits.
(a)
Method of payment.
(1) Upon either an assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner or a conveyance of the property to the Commissioner in accordance with requirements in § 207.258, payment of an insurance claim shall be made in cash, in debentures, or in a combination of both, as determined by the Commissioner either at, or prior to, the time of payment.
(2) An insurance claim paid on a mortgage insured under section 223(e) of the National Housing Act shall be paid in cash from the Special Risk Insurance Fund.
(b)
Amount of payment; assignment of mortgage.
If the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the insurance benefits shall be paid in an amount determined as follows:
(1) By adding to the unpaid principal amount of the mortgage, computed as of the date of default, the following items:
(i) The amount of all payments made by the mortgagee for taxes, special assessments and water rates which are liens prior to the mortgage; for insurance on the property; and for any mortgage insurance premiums paid after default.
(ii) An allowance for reasonable payments made by the mortgagee, with the approval of the Commissioner, for the completion and preservation of the property.
(iii) An amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned on the portion of the insurance benefits paid in cash, as of the date such cash payment is made, except that when the mortgagee fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of §§ 207.256 and 207.258 within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended.
(2) By deducting from the total of the items computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following items:
(i) Any amount received by the mortgagee on account of the mortgage after the date of default.
(ii) Any net income received by the mortgagee from the property covered by the mortgage after the date of default.
(iii) The sum of the cash items retained by the mortgagee pursuant to § 207.258(b)(6), except the balance of the mortgage loan not advanced to the mortgagor.
(iv) An amount equivalent to 1 percent of the mortgage funds advanced to the mortgagor and not repaid as of the date of default, except that all or part of the 1 percent may be waived by the Commissioner if, at his request and in lieu of foreclosure, the mortgage is assigned to the Secretary.
(v) In the case of a lender receiving insurance benefits for the full Mortgage amount upon the Commissioner's endorsement of the Mortgage for full insurance pursuant to 24 CFR parts 251, 252, or 255, the amount of the fee set forth through
Federal Register
notice. HUD may, in its discretion, collect this fee rather than deducting the fee from the total of the items computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(vi) Except for multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance before September 1, 2011, and for multifamily project mortgages insured under section 232 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715w) and under section 242 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-7), when there is a covenant default as defined in § 207.255(a)(1)(ii) and a mortgagee refuses to comply promptly with the Commissioner's request to accelerate payment pursuant to § 207.257, an amount equal to the difference between the project's market value as of the date of the Commissioner's request and the project's market value as of the date the mortgagee makes an election to assign the mortgage, or convey title to the project, as determined by appraisal procedures established by the Commissioner.
(vii) For multifamily project mortgages for which HUD issued a firm commitment for mortgage insurance on or after September 1, 2011, the regulations of paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section shall apply, unless the mortgagor demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that financial hardship to the mortgagor would result from application of the regulations in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section due to the reasonable expectations of the mortgagor that the transaction would close under the regulations in effect prior to September 1, 2011, in which case, the regulations of paragraph (b)(2)(vi) shall not apply.
(c)
Amount of payment; conveyance of property.
If the property is conveyed to the Commissioner, the insurance benefits shall be paid in an amount determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, except that the item set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section shall not be deducted.
(d)
Issuance of certificate of claim.
In addition to the insurance benefits paid under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, a certificate of claim shall be issued to the mortgagee.
(1) In the case of an assignment of the mortgage, the certificate shall be for an amount which the Commissioner determines to be sufficient, when added to the amount of the insurance benefits to equal the amount the mortgagee would have received if, on the date of assignment to the Commissioner, the mortgagor had paid in full all obligations under the mortgage. Where a conveyance is involved, there shall also be included in the certificate an allowance in a reasonable amount for any necessary expenses incurred by the mortgagee in connection with the foreclosure proceedings or the acquisition of the mortgaged property otherwise and in connection with the conveyance of the property to the Commissioner.
(2) The certificate of claim shall provide for an uncompounded annual interest increment of 3 percent to begin as of the date of either assignment or conveyance.
(e)
Issuance of debentures.
Where debentures are issued, they shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Be issued as of the date of default.
(2) Be registered as to principal and interest.
(3) At the option of the Commissioner and with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be redeemable at par
plus accrued interest on any semiannual interest payment date on 3 months' notice of redemption given in such manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The debenture interest on the debentures called for redemption shall cease on the semiannual interest payment date designated in the call notice. The Commissioner may include with the notice of redemption an offer to purchase the debentures at par plus accrued interest at any time during the period between the notice of redemption and the redemption date. If the debentures are purchased by the Commissioner after such call and prior to the named redemption date, the debenture interest shall cease on the date of purchase.
(4) Mature 20 years from the date thereof.
(5) Be issued in such forms and amounts; and be subject to such terms and conditions; and include such provisions for redemption, if any, as may be prescribed by the Secretary, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury; and may be in book entry or certificated registered form, or such other form as the Secretary by regulation may prescribe.
(6) Bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment was issued, or as of the date of initial insurance endorsement of the mortgage, whichever rate is higher. The applicable rates of interest will be published twice each year as a notice in the
Federal Register.
(7) Debentures representing the portion of the claim applicable to an operating loss loan shall bear interest at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment to insure such loan was issued, or as of the date of endorsement for insurance of such loan, whichever rate is the higher, although debentures representing the portion of the claim applicable to the original mortgage may bear interest at a different rate.
(f)
Mortgagee Time Limits for Supplemental Claims for Additional Insurance Benefits.
A mortgagee may not file for any additional payments of its mortgage insurance claim more than six months after the date of final settlement of the insurance claim by the Commissioner. For the purpose of this section, the term final settlement shall mean the payment of the insurance claim (in cash or debentures) or billing for any overpayment of a partial claim that is made by the Commissioner. Final settlement is based upon the submission by the mortgagee of all required documents and information pursuant to part 207 of this chapter.
[36 FR 24537, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 41 FR 45829, Oct. 18, 1976; 47 FR 26125, June 17, 1982; 49 FR 24654, June 14, 1984; 51 FR 13142, Apr. 17, 1986; 51 FR 27838, Aug. 4, 1986; 57 FR 55112, Nov. 24, 1992; 59 FR 49816, Sept. 30, 1994; 61 FR 49038, Sept. 17, 1996; 71 FR 18153, Apr. 10, 2006; 76 FR 24371, May 2, 2011; 80 FR 51468, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 207.259a
Waiver of title objection; mortgages formerly Commissioner-held.
If the Commissioner sells a mortgage and such mortgage is later reassigned to him in exchange for debentures or the property covered by such mortgage is later conveyed to him in exchange for debentures, the Commissioner will not object to title by reason of any lien or other adverse interest that was senior to the mortgage on the date of the original sale of such mortgage by the Commissioner.
§ 207.260
Maintenance and inspection of property.
As long as the mortgage is insured or held by the Commissioner, the mortgagor must maintain the insured project in accordance with the physical condition requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G; and the mortgagee must inspect the project in accordance with the physical inspection requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.
[63 FR 46578, Sept. 1, 1998]
§ 207.261
Capturing excess bond proceeds.
(a) A mortgagee that finances multifamily housing or healthcare facilities insured under Title II of the National Housing Act through the issuance and sale of bonds or bond anticipation notes and uses a project-specific trust indenture agreement, that clearly outlines the project and identifies by project the trust funds established by
and administered in accordance with the terms of the trust indenture, shall:
(1) Include the following clause in the trust indenture: In the event of an assignment or conveyance of the mortgage to the Commissioner, subsequent to the issuance of the bonds, all money remaining in all funds and accounts other than the rebate fund, and any other funds remaining under the trust indenture after payment or provision for payment of debt service on the bonds and the fees and expenses of the credit enhancer, issuer, trustee, and other such parties unrelated to the mortgagor (other than funds originally deposited by the mortgagor or related parties on or before the date of issuance of the bonds) shall be returned to the mortgagee.
(2) Upon the Commissioner's payment of an FHA mortgage insurance claim under § 207.259, the mortgagee shall take all legally-entitled actions to enforce the clause required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section and pay the Commissioner any trust funds remaining after discharge by the trustee of all obligations of the trust indenture, no later than 6 months after the date of the Commissioner's final settlement of the FHA mortgage insurance claim.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “rebate fund” means a separate fund established under a contract or agreement for tax-exempt bonds in which amounts (excess interest earnings from the tax-exempt bonds) must be deposited to make rebate payments to the federal government under the Internal Revenue Code.
[79 FR 43933, July 29, 2014]

# Rights in Housing Fund
§ 207.263
Responsibility for servicing.
After January 10, 1994, servicing of insured mortgages must be performed by a mortgagee which is approved by HUD to service insured mortgages.
[57 FR 58350, Dec. 9, 1992]

# Amendments
§ 207.499
Effect of amendments.
The regulations in this subpart may be amended by the Commissioner at any time and from time to time, in whole or in part, but such amendment shall not adversely affect the interests of a mortgagee or lender under the contract of insurance on any mortgage or loan already insured and shall not adversely affect the interests of a mortgagee or lender on any mortgage or loan to be insured on which the Commissioner has made a commitment to insure.
Pt. 208

# PART 208—ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION OF REQUIRED DATA FOR CERTIFICATION AND RECERTIFICATION AND SUBSIDY BILLING PROCEDURES FOR MULTIFAMILY SUBSIDIZED PROJECTS
Sec.
208.101
Purpose.
208.104
Applicability.
208.108
Requirements.
208.112
Cost.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701s, 1715l, 1715z-1; 42 U.S.C. 1437f and 3535(d).

# Source:
58 FR 61022, Nov. 19, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 208.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to require owners of subsidized multifamily projects to electronically submit certain data to HUD for the programs listed in § 208.104. This electronically submitted data is required by HUD Forms, Owner's Certification of Compliance with Tenant's Eligibility and Rent Procedure, Worksheets to Compute Tenant Payment/Rent (Form HUD-50059 and 50059 Worksheets), and the Monthly Subsidy Billing Forms, Housing Owner's Certification and Application for Housing Assistance Payments (HUD-52670), Schedule of Tenant Assistance Payments Due (HUD-52670A, Part 1), Schedule of section 8 Special Claims (HUD-52670A, Part 2), and Special Claims Worksheets, HUD-52671 A through D), as applicable.
§ 208.104
Applicability.
(a) This part applies to HUD administered subsidized multifamily projects, either insured or non-insured, under:
(1) The section 236 Interest Reduction and Rental Assistance Payments program;
(2) The section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Programs, including, but not
limited to, section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Programs for New Construction (24 CFR part 880), section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program for Substantial Rehabilitation (24 CFR part 881), section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program, New Construction Set-Aside for section 515 Rural Rental Housing Projects (24 CFR part 884); Loans for Housing for the Elderly or Handicapped (24 CFR part 885) and section 8 Loan Management and Property Disposition Set-aside program (24 CFR part 886);
(3) The section 221(d)(3) Below Market Interest Rate Housing for Low and Moderate Income Mortgage Insurance program (24 CFR part 221); and
(4) The section 101 Rent Supplement program (24 CFR part 215).
(b) This part applies to those multifamily projects having subsidy contracts, either insured or non-insured, where State housing finance and development agencies and other Public Housing Agencies are the subsidy contract administrator under:
(1) The section 236 Interest Reduction and Rental Assistance Payments program (24 CFR part 236);
(2) The section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Programs, including, but not limited to, section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program for New Construction (24 CFR part 880), section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program for Substantial Rehabilitation (24 CFR part 881), and section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program, New Construction Set-Aside for section 515 Rural Rental Housing Projects (24 CFR part 884);
(3) The section 221(d)(3) Below Market Interest Rate Housing for Low and Moderate Income Mortgage Insurance Program (24 CFR part 221); and
(4) The section 101 Rent Supplement program (24 CFR part 215).
(c) This part applies to all other subsidized section 202 projects, which include: section 202 projects with rent supplement or loan management set aside, section 202 projects with section 162 assistance, and section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly. This part also applies to section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities.
(d) This part does not apply to the section 8 Existing Housing Program or the Moderate Rehabilitation program.
§ 208.108
Requirements.
(a)
Projects specified in § 208.104(a) that are automated.
Project owners of applicable projects under § 208.104(a) who currently use an automated software package to process certifications and recertifications and to provide subsidy billings to HUD must update their software packages and begin electronic transmission of that data in a HUD specified format by March 21, 1994. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding March 21, 1994, as well as data collected on or after this date. Data collected for the 12 months preceding March 21, 1994, is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted.
(b)
Projects specified in § 208.104(a) that are not automated.
Nonautomated project owners and agents (those owners and agents that currently prepare the certification, recertification, and subsidy billing forms manually) of applicable projects under § 208.104(a) must:
(1) Complete the search and either obtain the necessary hardware or software, or sign service contracts;
(2) Complete their data loading; and
(3) Begin electronic transmission by May 20, 1994. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding May 20, 1994, as well as data collected on or after this date. Data collected for the 12 months preceding May 20, 1994, is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted.
(c)
Projects specified in § 208.104(b)
—(1)
Project owners.
Project owners of applicable projects under § 208.104(b) must electronically transmit data for certification, recertification and subsidy billing procedures in a HUD specified format to the contract administrator. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding September 23, 1994, as well as data collected on or after that date. Data collected for the 12 months preceding September 23, 1994 is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted.
(2)
Contract administrators.
State housing finance and development agencies and Public Housing Agencies that serve as the subsidy contract administrator must accept the electronic transmission of the HUD forms listed below in § 208.108(e) from the projects they administer, and electronically transmit that data to HUD in a HUD specified format after appropriate review and correction of the data.
(d)
Projects specified in § 208.104(c).
Project owners of applicable projects under § 208.104(c) must electronically transmit data for certification, recertification and subsidy billing procedures to HUD in a HUD specified format. In the case of partially assisted section 202 projects, owners are required to electronically transmit data only for subsidized units. These project owners are required to transmit data collected for the 12 months preceding the effective date of the rule, as well as data collected on or after the effective date of the rule. Data collected for the 12 months preceding September 23, 1994 is to include only the tenant's most recent “complete certification” (move-in, initial certification, interim recertification, or annual recertification). When the most recent certification for a tenant is a partial certification (gross rent change, unit transfer, or correction), both the complete and partial certifications must be transmitted.
(e)
Data to be transmitted.
Electronic transmission consists of data transmitted from the HUD-50059, 50059 worksheets, 52670 and 52670A, Parts 1 and 2 and 52671 A through D correctly formatted in accord with the HUD data requirements and in lieu of the hard copy forms.
[58 FR 61022, Nov. 19, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 43474, Aug. 24, 1994]
§ 208.112
Cost.
(a) The costs of the electronic transmission of the correctly formatted data, including either the purchase and maintenance of computer hardware or software, or both, the cost of contracting for those services, or the cost of centralizing the electronic transmission function, shall be considered project operating costs to be paid from project income, and considered project operating costs for the purpose of processing and approving requests for HUD approval of rent increases.
(b) At the owner's option, the cost of the computer software may include service contracts to provide maintenance or training, or both. Regardless of whether an owner obtains service contracts to provide maintenance or training or both, the software must be updated to incorporate changes or revisions in legislation, regulations, handbooks, notices or HUD electronic transmission data format requirements.
(c) The source of funds for the purchase of hardware or software, or contracting for services for electronic transmission, may include current project operating income; an expense item in processing rent increases; a loan from the Reserve for Replacement Account, or a release from the Residual Receipts Account.
(d) A loan from the Reserve for Replacements Account must be repaid within a five year period from the release date.
(e) Owners of smaller projects or partially assisted projects with few subsidized units and CAs that administer no more than one project that determine that the purchase of hardware and/or software is not cost effective may contract out the electronic data transmission function to organizations that provide such services, including,
but not limited to the following organizations: local management agents, local management associations and management agents with centralized facilities. Owners of multiple projects may centralize the electronic transmission function. However, owners that contract out or centralize the electronic transmission function are required to retain the ability to monitor the day-to-day operations of the project at the project site and be able to demonstrate that ability to the relevant HUD field office.
[58 FR 61022, Nov. 19, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 43475, Aug. 24, 1994]
Pt. 213

# PART 213—COOPERATIVE HOUSING MORTGAGE INSURANCE

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements—Projects
Sec.
213.1
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Projects
213.251
Cross-reference.
213.252
Definitions.
213.253
Premiums upon initial endorsement.
213.254
Premiums where first principal payment more than one year after initial endorsement.
213.255
Premiums where first principal payment one year or less after initial endorsement.
213.256
Premiums; insurance upon completion.
213.257
Premiums; purchasing cooperatives; Existing Construction, supplementary loans to purchase existing community facility.
213.258
Subsequent annual premiums.
213.259
Computation of subsequent annual premiums.
213.259a
Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to Section 238(c) of the Act.
213.260
Allowable methods of premium payment.
213.265
Modifications and consolidations.
213.266
Initial insurance endorsement.
213.266a
Insurance fund obligations.
213.267
Effect of insurance endorsement.
213.268
Final insurance endorsement.
213.269
Endorsement of supplementary loans.
213.270
Supplementary loans; election of action; claims; debentures.

# Cooperative Management Housing Insurance and Distributive Shares
213.275
Nature of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
213.276
Allocation of Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund income or losses.
213.277
Right and liability under the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
213.278
Distribution of distributive share.
213.279
Maximum amount of distributive share.
213.280
Finality of determination.

# Subpart C—Individual Properties Released From Project Mortgage; Expiring Program
213.501
Savings clause.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715e; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24553, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements—Projects
§ 213.1
Eligibility requirements.
The eligibility requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 213 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715e), as amended.
[61 FR 14405, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Projects
§ 213.251
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of subpart B, part 207 of this chapter covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act, apply with full force and effect to mortgages insured under section 213 of the National Housing Act, except the following provisions:
Sec.
207.251 Definitions.
207.252 First, second, and third premiums.
207.254 Form of endorsement.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the National Housing Act shall be deemed to refer to section 213 of the Act, and all references in part 207 of this chapter to the General Insurance Fund shall be deemed to refer to the Cooperative Management
Housing Insurance Fund in cases involving mortgages which are the obligation of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
(c) The provisions of §§ 207.255, 207.256, 207.257, 207.261, 207.262 and 207.263 of this chapter shall apply to supplementary loans insured under section 213(j) of the Act. In connection with the foregoing provisions the terms
mortgagor, mortgagee, mortgage
shall be construed to mean
borrower, lender,
and
supplementary loan, including required security instrument.
(d) Where the provisions of this subpart are applicable to supplementary loans, the terms
mortgagor, mortgagee, mortgage,
shall be construed to mean
borrower, lender,
and
supplementary loan, including required security instrument.
(e) Where the provisions of this subpart are applicable to operating loss loans, the terms
mortgagor, mortgagee
and
mortgage
shall be construed to mean
borrower, lender
and
operating loss loan, including required security instrument,
respectively.
[36 FR 24553, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8662, Apr. 29, 1972]
§ 213.252
Definitions.
The definitions contained in § 213.1 shall apply to this subpart and in addition the following terms shall have the meaning indicated.
(a)
Contract of Insurance
means the agreement evidenced by endorsement of the credit instrument by the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative and includes the terms, conditions and provisions of this subpart and of the National Housing Act.
(b)
Insured mortgage
means a mortgage which has been insured by the endorsement of the credit instrument by the Commissioner.
(c)
Mortgage
means such a first lien upon real estate and other property as is commonly given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the State, district or territory in which the real estate is located, together with the credit instrument or instruments, if any, secured thereby. In any instance where an operating loss loan is involved, the term shall include both the original mortgage and the instrument securing the operating loss loan.
(d)
Mortgagee
means the original lender under a mortgage, its successors and such of its assigns as are approved by the Commissioner, and includes the holders of the credit instruments issued under a trust indenture, mortgage or deed of trust pursuant to which such holders act by and through a trustee therein named.
(e)
Mortgagor
means the original borrower under a mortgage and its successors and such of its assigns as are approved by the Commissioner.
(f)
Project Mortgage
means a blanket mortgage insured under section 213 of the Act, covering a group of not less than five single-family dwellings.
§ 213.253
Premiums upon initial endorsement.
(a)
Management and Sales Types and Investor Sponsored Projects.
The mortgagee, upon the initial endorsement of the mortgage for insurance, shall pay to the Commissioner a first mortgage insurance premium equal to one-half of one percent of the original face amount of the mortgage.
(b)
Purchasing cooperatives.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the mortgage or a purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust where such mortgage is endorsed for insurance pursuant to the sale of an Investor Sponsored Project to such purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust.
(c)
Existing Construction.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of the section shall apply to a mortgage covering Existing Construction which involves insurance of advances for Commissioner approved or required repairs, improvements, alterations and additions.
(d)
Operating loss loans and supplementary loans.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to any operating loss loan and to any supplementary loan, except a supplementary loan to finance the acquisition of an existing community facility.
§ 213.254
Premiums where first principal payment more than one year after initial endorsement.
(a)
Management and Sales Types and Investor Sponsored Projects.
(1) If the date of the first principal payment is more than one year following the date of such initial insurance endorsement, the mortgagee, upon the anniversary of such insurance date, shall pay a second premium equal to one-half of one percent of the original face amount of the mortgage. On the date of the first principal payment, the mortgagee shall pay a third premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the first, second and third premiums shall equal the sum of:
(i) One percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of initial insurance endorsement, and
(ii) One-half of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the first anniversary of the date of initial insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(2) If the date of the first principal payment of a mortgage is more than one year following the date of the initial insurance endorsement and the mortgage is paid in full prior to the date of such first principal payment, the first and second premiums collected shall be adjusted so that the aggregate of the two premiums shall equal the sum of:
(i) One percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of the initial insurance endorsement and
(ii) One-half of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the first anniversary of the date of initial endorsement to the date the mortgage was paid in full.
(b)
Purchasing cooperatives.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the mortgage of a purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust where such mortgage is endorsed for insurance pursuant to the sale of an Investor Sponsored Project to such purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust.
(c)
Existing Construction.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to a mortgage covering Existing Construction which involves insurance of advances for Commissioner approved or required repairs, improvements, alterations and additions.
(d)
Supplementary loan; insurance of advances.
The provisions of paragraph (a) shall apply to any supplementary loan involving insurance of advances.
§ 213.255
Premiums where first principal payment one year or less after initial endorsement.
(a)
Management and Sales Types and Investor Sponsored Projects.
(1) If the date of the first principal payment is one year, or less than one year following the date of such initial insurance endorsement, the mortgagee, upon such first principal payment date, shall pay a second premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the first and second premiums shall equal the sum of
(i) One percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of initial insurance endorsement to the date of first principal payment, and
(ii) One-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of the first principal payment.
(2) If the date of the first principal payment of a mortgage is one year or less than one year following the date of the initial insurance endorsement and the mortgage is paid in full prior to the date of such first principal payment, the first and only premium collected shall be adjusted so that the total premium shall equal one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of initial
insurance endorsement to the date the mortgage was paid in full.
(b)
Purchasing cooperatives.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the mortgage of a purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust where such mortgage is endorsed for insurance pursuant to the sale of an Investor Sponsored Project to such purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust.
(c)
Existing Construction.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to a mortgage covering Existing Construction which involves insurance of advances for Commissioner approved or required repairs, improvements, alterations and additions.
(d)
Supplementary loan; insurance of advances.
The provisions of paragraph shall apply to a supplementary loan involving insurance of advances.
§ 213.256
Premiums; insurance upon completion.
(a)
Management and Sales Types and Investor Sponsored Projects.
(1) Where the mortgage is initially and finally endorsed for insurance pursuant to a Commitment to Insure Upon Completion, the mortgagee on the date of the first principal payment shall pay a second premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following such first principal payment date which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the first and second premiums shall equal the sum of one-half of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(2) Where the mortgage is initially and finally endorsed for insurance pursuant to a Commitment to Insure Upon Completion and is paid in full prior to the date of the first principal payment, the first and only premium collected shall be adjusted so that the total premium shall equal one-half of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to the date the mortgage was paid in full.
(b)
Purchasing cooperatives.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the mortgage of a purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust where such mortgage is endorsed for insurance pursuant to the sale of an Investor Sponsored Project to such purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust.
(c)
Existing Construction.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to Existing Construction not involving insurance of advances but involved Commissioner approved or required repairs, improvements, alterations and additions.
(d)
Supplementary loans; Commitment to Insure Upon Completion.
The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall apply to a supplementary loan endorsed for insurance pursuant to a Commitment to Insure Upon Completion.
§ 213.257
Premiums; purchasing cooperatives; Existing Construction; supplementary loans to purchase existing community facility.
(a) Where a mortgage is endorsed for insurance pursuant to the sale of an Investor Sponsor Project or covers Existing Construction not involving Commissioner approved or required repairs, improvements, alterations and additions, the mortgagee, on the date of the insurance endorsement, shall pay a first premium equal to one-half of one percent of the principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment. On the anniversary of the first principal payment, this first premium shall be adjusted to equal one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(b) The premium provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to a supplementary loan to purchase an existing community facility.
§ 213.258
Subsequent annual premiums.
(a) Until the mortgage is paid in full or until receipt by the Commissioner of an application for insurance benefits, or until the contract of insurance is otherwise terminated with the consent of the Commissioner, the mortgagee, on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment, shall pay an annual mortgage insurance premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date on which such premium becomes payable.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to operating loss loans and to supplementary loans.
§ 213.259
Computation of subsequent annual premiums.
The premiums payable on and after the date of the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization provisions without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
§ 213.259a
Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to section 238(c) of the Act.
All of the provisions of §§ 213.253 through 213.259 governing mortgage insurance premiums shall apply to mortgages insured under this subpart pursuant to section 238(c) of the Act, except that all mortgage insurance premiums due on such mortgages in accordance with §§ 213.253 through 213.259 shall be calculated on the basis of one percent.
[42 FR 59675, Nov. 18, 1977]
§ 213.260
Allowable methods of premium payment.
Premiums shall be payable in cash or in debentures at par plus accrued interest. All premiums are payable in advance and no refund can be made of any portion thereof except as hereinafter provided in this part.
§ 213.265
Modifications and consolidations.
Where a mortgage covering an investor sponsored project is modified and consolidated with the mortgage of a purchasing nonprofit cooperative housing corporation or trust, it shall be deemed to be paid in full as of the date of such modification and consolidation.
[37 FR 8662, Apr. 29, 1972]
§ 213.266
Initial insurance endorsement.
The Commissioner shall indicate his insurance of the mortgage or supplementary loan by endorsing the original credit instrument and identifying the section of the Act and the regulations under which the mortgage or supplementary loan is insured and the date of insurance.
§ 213.266a
Insurance fund obligations.
A mortgage endorsed for insurance under section 213 of the Act shall be the obligation either of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund or of the General Insurance Fund. The determination of the applicable fund shall be governed by the following:
(a) A mortgage insured under section 213(a)(1) of the Act or under section 213(a)(3) if the project has been acquired by a cooperative corporation or under section 213 (i) or (j) shall be the obligation of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund, where it has been insured pursuant to a commitment issued on or after August 10, 1965, or insured pursuant to a commitment issued prior to such date, and transferred to the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
(b) A mortgage insured under section 213(a)(2) of the Act or under section 213(a)(3) where the project has not been acquired by a cooperative corporation shall be the obligation of the General Insurance Fund. A mortgage insured prior to August 10, 1965, or insured pursuant to a commitment issued prior to such date, where the project has not been transferred to the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund, shall also be the obligation of the General Insurance Fund.
§ 213.267
Effect of insurance endorsement.
From the date of initial endorsement, the Commissioner and the mortgagee or lender shall be bound by the provisions of this subpart to the same extent as if they had executed a contract including the provisions of this
subpart and the applicable sections of the Act.
§ 213.268
Final insurance endorsement.
When all advances of mortgage or loan proceeds have been made and all the terms and conditions of the commitment have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, he shall indicate on the original credit instrument the total of all advances he has approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument.
§ 213.269
Endorsement of supplementary loans.
The provisions of §§ 213.266, 213.267, and 213.268 shall apply to supplementary loans.
§ 213.270
Supplementary loans; election of action; claims; debentures.
(a)
Election of action.
Where a real estate mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, chattel mortgage, lien, judgement, or any other security device has been used to secure the payment of a loan made under the provisions of this section, the lender may not, except with the approval of the Commissioner, both proceed against such security and also make claim under its contract of insurance, but shall elect which method it desires to pursue.
(b)
Maximum claim period.
Notice of intention to file claim on a form prescribed by the Commissioner shall be filed within 45 days after the lender becomes eligible for the benefits of the loan insurance, or within such later time as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing.
(c)
Items to be filed on submitting claim.
Within 30 days after the filing of the notice of intention to file claim, or within such further period as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing, the lender shall file with the Commissioner:
(1) The fiscal data pertaining to the loan transaction;
(2) Receipts covering all disbursements as required by the fiscal data form;
(3) The original note and any security instrument or instruments which shall be assigned to the Commissioner without recourse or warranty, except that the lender must warrant that no act or omission of the lender has impaired the validity and priority of such security instrument or instruments, that the security instrument or instruments, are prior to all mechanics' and materialmen's liens filed of record subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments regardless of whether such liens attached prior to such recording date, and prior to all liens and encumbrances which may have attached or defects which may have arisen subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments, except such liens or other matters as may be approved by the Commissioner, that the amount stated in the instrument of assignment is actually due and owing under the security instrument or instruments, that there are no offsets or counterclaims thereto, and that the lender has a good right to assign such note and security instrument or instruments;
(4) All hazard insurance policies held on property serving as security for the loan or other evidence of insurance coverage acceptable to the Commissioner, together with a copy of the lender's notification to the carrier authorizing the amendment of the loss payable clause substituting the Commissioner as the holder of the security instrument;
(5) The assignment to the Commissioner of all rights and interests arising under the note and security instrument or instruments so in default, and all claims of the lender against the borrower or others arising out of the loan transaction;
(6) All policies of title or other insurance or surety bonds, or other guarantees and any and all claims thereunder; including evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that the original title coverage has been extended to include the assignment of the note and the security instrument or instruments to the Commissioner;
(7) Any balance of the loan not advanced to the borrower;
(8) Any cash or property held by the lender or its agents or to which it is entitled; including deposits made for the account of the borrower and which have not been applied in reduction of
the principal obligation under the note and security instrument or instruments;
(9) All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers and accounts relating to the loan transaction;
(10) Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require.
(d)
Claim computation.
Upon an acceptable assignment of the note and security instrument, the Commissioner shall pay the claim of the lender in cash, in debentures or in a combination of both, as determined by the Commissioner at the time of payment. The payment shall be in an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the supplementary loan plus:
(1) Any accrued interest due on the supplementary loan as of the date of execution of its assignment to the Commissioner;
(2) Any advance made previously under the provisions of the loan instrument and approved by the Commissioner;
(3) Reimbursement for such reasonable collection costs, court costs, and attorney's fees as may be approved by the Commissioner;
(4) An amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned on the portion of the insurance benefits paid in cash, as of the date such cash payment is made, except that when the lender fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended.
(e)
Debenture interest.
The debentures shall bear interest as provided in § 207.259(e)(6) of this chapter.
(f)
Maturity of debentures.
Debentures shall mature 20 years from the date of issue.
(g)
Registration of debentures.
Debentures shall be registered as to principal and interest.
(h)
Denomination of debentures.
Debentures shall be issued in multiples of $50 and any difference not in excess of $50 between the amount of debentures to which the lender is otherwise entitled hereunder and the aggregate face value of the debentures issued shall be paid in cash by the Commissioner to the lender.
(i)
Redemption of debentures.
Debentures shall, at the option of the Commissioner and with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be redeemable at par plus accrued interest on any semiannual interest payment date on 3 months' notice of redemption given in such manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The debenture interest on the debentures called for redemption shall cease on the semiannual interest payment date designated in the call notice. The Commissioner may include with the notice of redemption an offer to purchase the debentures at par plus accrued interest at any time during the period between the notice of redemption and the redemption date. If the debentures are purchased by the Commissioner after such call and prior to the named redemption date, the debenture interest shall cease on the date of purchase.
(j)
Issue date of debentures.
The debentures shall be issued as of the date of the execution of the assignment of the supplementary loan in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

# Cooperative Management Housing Insurance and Distributive Shares
§ 213.275
Nature of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
The Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund shall consist of the General Surplus Account and the Participating Reserve Account.
§ 213.276
Allocation of Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund income or losses.
For any semiannual period in which Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund operations shall result in a net income, or loss, the Commissioner shall allocate such net income or such loss to the General Surplus Account, to the Participating Reserve Account, or to both, as he may determine
to be in accordance with sound actuarial and accounting practice. In determining net income or loss, the Commissioner shall take into consideration all income received from fees, premiums, and earnings on investments of the Fund, operating expenses, and provision for losses of the Fund.
§ 213.277
Right and liability under the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
No mortgagor or mortgagee shall have any vested right in a credit balance in either the General Surplus Account or the Participating Reserve Account. No mortgagor or mortgagee shall be subject to any liability arising under the mutuality of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund.
§ 213.278
Distribution of distributive share.
When the contract of insurance is terminated by reason of payment in full of the mortgage or by voluntary termination approved by the Commissioner, and at such time or times prior to such termination as the Commissioner may approve, the Commissioner may distribute to a mortgagor under a mortgage that is the obligation of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund a share of the Participating Reserve Account in such manner and amount as he shall determine to be equitable and in accordance with sound actuarial and accounting practice.
§ 213.279
Maximum amount of distributive share.
In no event shall a distributive share of the Participating Reserve Account exceed the aggregate paid scheduled annual premiums of the mortgagor paid to the year of termination of the insurance or to the year of payment of the share, if paid prior to termination.
§ 213.280
Finality of determination.
The determination of the Commissioner as to the amount to be paid to any mortgagor from the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund shall be final and conclusive.

# Subpart C—Individual Properties Released From Project Mortgage; Expiring Program
§ 213.501
Savings clause.
No new loans are being insured under the Cooperative Housing Mortgage Insurance Program for individual properties released from a project mortgage. Any existing insured loans on individual properties released from a project mortgage under this program will continue to be governed by the regulations on eligibility requirements, contract rights and obligations, and servicing responsibilities in effect as they existed immediately before December 26, 1996.
[61 FR 60160, Nov. 26, 1996]
Pt. 214

# PART 214—HOUSING COUNSELING PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Program Requirements
Sec.
214.1
Purpose.
214.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Approval and Disapproval of Housing Counseling Agencies
214.100
General.
214.103
Approval criteria.
214.105
Preliminary application process.
214.107
Approval by HUD.
214.109
Disapproval by HUD.

# Subpart C—Inactive Status, Termination, and Appeals
214.200
Inactive status.
214.201
Termination of HUD-approved status and grant agreements.
214.203
Re-approval or removal as a result of a performance review.
214.205
Appeals.

# Subpart D—Program Administration
214.300
Counseling services.
214.303
Performance criteria.
214.305
Agency profile changes.
214.307
Performance review.
214.309
Reapproval and disapproval based on performance review.
214.311
Housing counseling grant funds.
214.313
Housing counseling fees.
214.315
Recordkeeping.
214.317
Reporting.

# Subpart E—Other Federal Requirements
214.500
Audit.
214.503
Other requirements.

# Subpart F—Certification of Tribal Housing Counselors
214.600
Tribal housing counselor certification.
214.601
[Reserved]

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701x, 1701x-1; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Program Requirements
§ 214.1
Purpose.
This part implements the Housing Counseling Program authorized by section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701x). Section 106 authorizes HUD to make grants to, or contract with, public or private organizations to provide a broad range of housing counseling services to homeowners and tenants to assist them in improving their housing conditions and in meeting the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership. Section 106 also directs HUD to provide housing counseling services only through agencies or individuals that have been certified by HUD as competent to provide such services. The regulations contained in this part prescribe the procedures and requirements by which the Housing Counseling Program will be administered, including the process by which agencies are approved and individuals will be certified to provide the homeownership and rental counseling, as defined by section 106. These regulations apply to all agencies participating in HUD's Housing Counseling Program, and to all organizations or entities that deliver housing counseling, including homeownership counseling or rental housing counseling, required under or provided in connection with HUD programs.
[81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016]
§ 214.3
Definitions.
The following definitions apply throughout this part:
Action plan.
A plan that outlines what the housing counseling agency and the client will do in order to meet the client's housing goals and, when appropriate, addresses the client's housing problem(s).
Affiliate.
A nonprofit organization participating in the HUD-related Housing Counseling program of a regional or national intermediary, or state housing finance agency. The affiliate organization is incorporated separately from the regional or national intermediary or state housing finance agency. An affiliate is:
(1) Duly organized and existing as a tax-exempt nonprofit organization;
(2) In good standing under the laws of the state of the organization; and
(3) Authorized to do business in the states where it proposes to provide housing counseling services.
Branch or branch office.
An organizational and subordinate unit of a local housing counseling agency, multi-state organization, regional or national intermediary, or state housing finance agency not separately incorporated or organized, that participates in HUD's Housing Counseling program. A branch or branch office must be in good standing under the laws of the state where it proposes to provide housing counseling services. A branch or branch office cannot be a subgrantee or affiliate.
Clients.
Individuals or households who seek the assistance of an agency participating in HUD's Housing Counseling program to meet a housing need or resolve a housing problem.
Counseling.
Counselor to client assistance that addresses unique financial circumstances or housing issues and focuses on ways of overcoming specific obstacles to achieving a housing goal such as repairing credit, addressing a rental dispute, purchasing a home, locating cash for a down payment, being informed of fair housing and fair lending requirements of the Fair Housing Act, finding units accessible to persons with disabilities, avoiding foreclosure, or resolving a financial crisis. Except for reverse mortgage counseling, all counseling shall involve the creation of an action plan.
Education.
Formal classes, with established curriculum and instructional goals provided in a group or classroom
setting, covering topics applicable to groups of people such as, but not limited to:
(1) Renter rights;
(2) The homebuying process;
(3) How to maintain a home;
(4) Budgeting;
(5) Fair housing;
(6) Identifying and reporting predatory lending practices;
(7) Rights for persons with disabilities; and
(8) The importance of good credit.
Homeownership counseling.
See definition at 24 CFR 5.100.
Housing counseling.
See definition at 24 CFR 5.100.
Housing counseling grant funds.
Grants awarded to participating agencies under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701x).
Housing counseling work plan.
A participating agency's plan to provide housing counseling activities and services in a specified geographic area to resolve or mitigate identified community needs and problems. The plan will also describe the objectives of the agency and the resources available to meet those objectives. An intermediary's state housing finance agency's (SHFA) or multistate organization's (MSO) plan includes similar information regarding the services they propose to provide to the network of affiliated agencies or branches participating in their HUD-related Housing Counseling program.
Housing goal.
A realistic, short- or long-term objective set by the client, with advice from a housing counselor.
HUD-approved housing counseling agency.
Private and public nonprofit organizations that are exempt from taxation under section 501(a), pursuant to section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1996, 26 U.S.C. 501(a) and 501(c) and approved by HUD, in accordance with this part and 106(e) of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701x(e)), to provide housing counseling services to clients directly, or through their affiliates or branches, and which meet the requirements set forth in this part.
HUD certified housing counselor.
A housing counselor who has passed the HUD Certification examination, works for a participating agency, and is certified by HUD as competent to provide housing counseling services pursuant to this part.
HUD-certified Tribal housing counselor.
A housing counselor who has passed the HUD Certification examination as described in subpart F of this part, works for an Indian Tribe, Tribally designated housing entity (TDHE), or other Tribal entity, and is certified by HUD as competent to provide housing counseling services pursuant to subpart F of this part.
Intermediary.
A HUD-approved organization that provides housing counseling services indirectly through its branches or affiliates, for whom it exercises control over the quality and type of housing counseling services rendered. The Housing Counseling program recognizes two types of intermediaries, which include:
(1)
National intermediary.
A national intermediary provides, in multiple regions of the United States:
(i) Housing counseling services through its branches or affiliates or both; and
(ii) Administrative and supportive services to its network of affiliates or branches, including, but not limited to, pass-through funding, training, and technical assistance.
(2)
Regional intermediary.
A regional intermediary provides in a generally recognized region within the United States, such as the Southwest, Mid-Atlantic, New England:
(i) Housing counseling services through its branches or affiliates or both; and
(ii) Administrative and supportive services to its network of affiliates, or branches, including, but not limited to, pass-through funding, training, and technical assistance.
Local housing counseling agency (LHCA).
A housing counseling agency that directly provides housing counseling services. An LHCA may have a main office, and one or more branch offices, in no more than two contiguous states.
Multi-state organization (MSO).
A multi-state organization provides housing counseling services through a main office and branches in two or more states.
Nonprofit organization.
Shall have the meaning given in section 104(5) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12704(5)), except that subparagraph (D) of such section shall not apply.
Participating agency.
Participating agencies are all housing counseling and intermediary organizations participating in HUD's Housing Counseling program, including HUD-approved agencies, and affiliates and branches of HUD-approved intermediaries, HUD-approved MSOs, and state housing finance agencies.
Rental housing counseling.
See definition at 24 CFR 5.100.
Reverse mortgage.
A mortgage that pays a homeowner loan proceeds drawn from accumulated home equity and that requires no repayment until a future time.
State.
Each of the several States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, or any other possession of the United States.
State housing finance agency (SHFA).
Any public body, agency, or instrumentality created by a specific act of a state legislature empowered to finance activities designed to provide housing and related facilities through land acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation throughout an entire state. SHFAs may provide direct counseling services or subgrant housing counseling funds, or both, to affiliated housing counseling agencies within the SHFA's state. “State” includes the several states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Subgrantee.
An affiliate of a HUD-approved intermediary or SHFA that receives a subgrant of housing counseling funds provided under a HUD grant.
Tribally designated housing entity.
See definition at 25 U.S.C. 4103.
Unit of general local government.
Any city, county, parish, town, township, borough, village, or any other general purpose political subdivision of a State.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 90658, Dec. 14, 2016; 89 FR 49807, June 12, 2024]

# Subpart B—Approval and Disapproval of Housing Counseling Agencies
§ 214.100
General.
An organization may be approved by HUD as a HUD-approved housing counseling agency upon meeting the requirements of § 214.103 and upon completing the application procedures set forth in this subpart B.
(a)
Approval.
The approval of a housing counseling agency and the certification of a HUD certified housing counselor does not create or imply a warranty or endorsement by HUD of the approved agency, or its employees, including counselors, to a prospective client or to any other organization or individual, nor does it represent a warranty of any housing counseling provided by the agency or a HUD certified housing counselor working for an agency. Approval means only that the agency has met the qualifications and conditions prescribed by HUD, and a HUD certified housing counselor only means the housing counselor has successfully passed an examination pursuant to these regulations and works for a participating agency.
(b)
Effective date.
Agencies approved by HUD on or before October 29, 2007 and agencies that have submitted applications to HUD on or before September 28, 2007 and that are subsequently approved, are required to be in full compliance with the requirements in this part on October 1, 2007. Agencies approved after October 29, 2007 must comply with this part.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 90658, Dec. 14, 2016]
§ 214.103
Approval criteria.
The following criteria for approval apply to all agencies, MSOs, and intermediaries, including all local housing counseling agencies, branches, and affiliates that are included in one application:
(a)
Nonprofit and tax-exempt status.
A housing counseling agency must function as a private or public nonprofit organization, or be a unit of local, county, or state government. The agency must submit evidence of nonprofit status and tax-exempt status under section 501(a), pursuant to section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1996 (26 U.S.C. 501(a) and (c)). Units of local, county, or state government must submit proof of their authorization to provide housing counseling services.
(b)
Experience.
An agency must have successfully administered a Housing Counseling program for at least one year. An intermediary must have operated in an intermediary capacity for at least one year. To be considered part of an LHCA's, MSO's, or intermediary's approval application, and to participate in the HUD-approved portion of the intermediary's, SHFA's, or MSO's Housing Counseling program, affiliates and branches must have successfully administered a Housing Counseling program for at least one year.
(c)
Ineligible participants.
An agency, including any of the agency's directors, partners, officers, principals, or employees, must not be:
(1) Suspended, debarred, or otherwise restricted under the Department's, or any other federal regulations;
(2) Indicted for, or convicted of, a criminal offense that reflects upon the responsibility, integrity, or ability of the agency to participate in housing counseling activities. These offenses include criminal offenses that can be prosecuted at a local, state, or federal level;
(3) Subject to unresolved findings as a result of HUD or other government audit or investigations.
(d)
Community base.
A housing counseling agency and its HUD Program branches and affiliates must have functioned for at least one year in the geographical area(s) the agency set forth in its housing counseling work plan.
(e)
Recordkeeping and reporting.
The agency must have an established system of recordkeeping so that client files, electronic and paper, can be reviewed and annual activity data for the agency can be verified, reported, and analyzed. Client files, both electronic and paper, must be kept confidential, in accordance with § 214.315. This system must meet the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, 24 CFR 1.6, and 24 CFR part 121 and can be easily accessible to HUD for all monitoring and audit purposes.
(f)
Client management system.
All participating agencies shall utilize an automated housing counseling client management system for the collection and reporting of client-level information, including, but not limited to, financial and demographic data, counseling services provided, and outcomes data. The system used must provide the counseling agency with the tools necessary to track and manage all counseling and educational activities associated with each client. Agencies must utilize a Client Management System that satisfies HUD's requirements and interfaces with HUD's databases.
(g)
Housing counseling resources.
The agency must have the following resources sufficient to implement the proposed housing counseling work plan no later than the date of HUD approval:
(1)
Funding.
The application for approval must provide evidence of funds immediately available, or written commitment for funds to cover the cost of operating the housing counseling work plan during the initial 12-month period of HUD approval.
(2)
Staff.
The agency must employ staff trained in housing counseling. All staff providing housing counseling, including homeownership counseling or rental housing counseling, must be HUD certified housing counselors, and at least half the agency's counselors must have at least 6 months of experience in the job they will perform in the agency's housing counseling program.
(3)
Language skills.
The agency must have housing counselor(s) who are fluent in the language of the clients they serve, or the housing counseling agency must use the services of an interpreter, or the agency must refer the client to another agency that can meet the client's needs.
(h)
Knowledge of HUD programs and local housing market.
The agency's housing counseling staff must possess a working knowledge of HUD's housing and single-family mortgage insurance
programs, other state and local housing programs available in the community, consolidated plans, and the local housing market. The staff should be familiar with housing programs offered by conventional mortgage lenders and other housing or related programs that may assist their clients.
(i)
Contracts or agreements to provide eligible housing counseling services.
An agency and its branches or subgrantees or affiliates must deliver all of the housing counseling activities set forth in the agency's housing counseling work plan. It is not permissible to contract out housing counseling services, except:
(1) In geographic areas where a need for housing counseling services is demonstrated and no HUD-approved housing counseling agency or its branches, affiliates, or subgrantees exists. Under this exception, the contract must delineate the respective Housing Counseling program responsibilities of the contracting parties, the agency providing services (contractor) must meet the HUD approval eligibility standards, and the contracting agency must receive prior written approval from HUD.
(2) Intermediaries and SHFAs may enter into agreements with affiliates to provide housing counseling services. The agreements with affiliates may be in the form of an exchange of letters that delineate the respective Housing Counseling program responsibilities of the parties. Agreements must be sufficiently detailed to establish accountability and allow for adequate monitoring in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.
(3) With prior approval from HUD, and at HUD's discretion, intermediary organizations may operate a Housing Counseling program with a network of affiliated counselors, rather than affiliated counseling agencies, if the structure is designed to meet a special housing counseling need identified by HUD.
(j)
Community resources.
The housing counseling agency must have established working relationships with private and public community resources to which it can refer clients who need help the agency cannot offer, including agencies offering similar or related services to non-English speaking clients.
(k)
State and local requirements.
An agency and its branches and affiliates must meet all state and local requirements for its operation.
(l)
Facilities.
All participating agencies must maintain at least one facility. All facilities must meet the following criteria:
(1) Have a clearly identified space available for the provision of housing counseling services;
(2) Provide privacy for counseling services and confidentiality of client records; and
(3) Provide accessibility features or make alternative accommodations for persons with disabilities, in accordance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), 24 CFR parts 8 and 9, and the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
).
(m)
Housing counseling work plan.
(1) The agency must submit a detailed yet concise housing counseling plan that explains: The needs and problems of the target population; how the agency will address one or more of these needs and problems with its available resources; the type of housing counseling services offered; fee structure, if applicable; the geographic service area to be served; and the anticipated results (outcomes) to be achieved within the period of approval.
(2) The plan must be periodically reviewed and, when changed or amended, the agency must notify and provide a copy to HUD.
(3) The plan must meet the basic requirements described in § 214.300.
(4) An agency's housing counseling work plan must also address, if appropriate, alternative settings and formats for the provision of housing counseling services.
(n)
Certification of housing counselors.
(1) In order for an agency to participate in HUD's Housing Counseling Program, all individuals who provide counseling, including homeownership and rental housing counseling, must be HUD certified according to requirements in this section.
(2) For an individual to become a HUD certified counselor, an individual must pass a standardized written examination to demonstrate competency in each of the following areas:
(i) Financial management;
(ii) Property maintenance;
(iii) Responsibilities of homeownership and tenancy;
(iv) Fair housing laws and requirements;
(v) Housing affordability; and
(vi) Avoidance of, and response to, rental or mortgage delinquency and avoidance of eviction or mortgage default.
(3) HUD will certify an individual housing counselor who has met the requirements of paragraph (n)(1) of this section upon verification that the individual works for a participating agency.
(4) Participating agencies and housing counselors must be in compliance with requirements of paragraph (n) of this section as of August 1, 2021.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 90658, Dec. 14, 2016; 85 FR 47303, Aug. 5, 2020; 89 FR 75501, Sept. 16, 2024]
§ 214.105
Preliminary application process.
(a)
Submission.
All agencies must complete the forms prescribed by HUD and submit the application and all supporting documentation to HUD. Agencies with branches or affiliates for which the parent entity exercises control over the quality and type of housing counseling services rendered must submit a single application for approval.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a), SHFAs are not required to submit an application for HUD approval. However, to participate in HUD's Housing Counseling program, SHFAs must either submit a request and provide HUD with a list of affiliates, if applicable, and assure that they meet all program requirements, or submit a request through such other application procedure as HUD may periodically announce in the
Federal Register
or other informational sources.
§ 214.107
Approval by HUD.
(a)
Notice of approval.
If an application package meets all requirements outlined in § 214.103, HUD will approve an agency for a period of up to 3 years. HUD will advise the agency of its approval in the form of an approval letter to the agency's main office.
(b)
Certificate of Approval.
HUD will issue a “Certificate of Approval” to the approved agency. The certificate will show the period of approval.
(c)
Appearance on list of HUD-approved and participating housing counseling agencies.
For purposes of client referrals, participating agencies that provide housing counseling services directly to clients must provide HUD with the agency name and contact information, which may appear on HUD's Web site. In addition, names and addresses of all participating agencies that provide housing counseling services directly may be made available to the public through HUD's toll-free housing counseling hotline.
§ 214.109
Disapproval by HUD.
If an application package does not meet all requirements in § 214.103, HUD will provide the agency with the reasons for the denial in writing. Within 30 calendar days of the written notice of denial, the agency may submit a revised application, or appeal HUD's decision in writing to HUD, as provided in § 214.205. If an agency decides to submit a revised application, the agency may consult HUD, to determine the specific actions needed to resolve the deficiencies.

# Subpart C—Inactive Status, Termination, and Appeals
§ 214.200
Inactive status.
(a) HUD may change a participating agency's status to inactive, in lieu of terminations of HUD-approved status or removals from the list of HUD-approved agencies, under certain circumstances that may temporarily impair an agency from complying with its housing counseling plan. An agency's status may be changed to inactive on a case-by-case basis for a period not to exceed 6 months, unless an extension is provided by HUD under paragraph (d) of this section. HUD may change an agency's status through either a request submitted to HUD or as a result of information obtained by the Department. Some of the conditions under which inactive status may be considered include, but are not limited to:
(1) Loss of counselor(s);
(2) Damage to facilities by natural disasters that renders the agency unable to function properly;
(3) Loss of funds;
(4) Relocation;
(5) Other circumstances caused by reasons beyond the agency's control; or
(6) Results of performance review.
(b) Agencies that seek temporary inactive status must submit a request to HUD in writing. Documentation or evidence of the condition(s) that rendered the agency incapable of carrying out its housing counseling plan must be submitted along with the request, if possible. Upon receipt of the request, HUD will review and notify the agency of approval or rejection, in writing. If approved, the agency's name and contact information will be temporarily removed from the HUD-approved Web list of agencies and the telephone referral system.
(c) The agency must notify HUD in writing and provide supporting documentation or evidence when it is ready to resume operation, or no later than the end of the inactive period. After review and acceptance by HUD, the agency's contact information may be restored to the Web list of HUD-approved and participating agencies and the telephone referral system.
(d) At HUD's discretion, if the condition(s) still exists, an extension of the inactive period may be considered or the agency may be terminated or removed from the Housing Counseling program. HUD will notify the agency in writing of its decision.
§ 214.201
Termination of HUD-approved status and grant agreements.
(a)
Cause for termination by HUD.
HUD may terminate an agency's approval; remove an SHFA; remove one or more branches or affiliates from the HUD portion of an intermediary's, MSO's, or SHFA's counseling program; and terminate any grant agreements (if applicable) upon confirmation of any of the following reasons:
(1) Noncompliance with program requirements;
(2) Failure to implement in whole or in part the agency's approved housing counseling work plan or failure to notify HUD of changes in the agency's housing counseling work plan;
(3) Lack of the capacity to deliver the housing counseling activities described in its approved housing counseling work plan;
(4) Failure to achieve outcomes described in the work plan;
(5) Misuse of grant funds; or
(6) HUD determines that there is good cause.
(b)
Agency withdrawal.
The participating agency may withdraw from the Housing Counseling program at any time.
(c)
Post-termination, post-withdrawal requirements.
All terminations by HUD, or an agency's withdrawal, must be in writing. When a termination or withdrawal occurs, the agency must return to HUD any unexpired “Certificate of Approval.” A terminated or inactive agency cannot continue to display the certificate. If HUD has determined that an agency will be terminated from participating in the Housing Counseling program, and an agency does not voluntarily withdraw, then HUD may follow the provisions found in 24 CFR part 24.
§ 214.203
Re-approval or removal as a result of a performance review.
HUD may conduct a periodic performance review for all agencies participating in the Housing Counseling program. The performance review and the terms of re-approval or removal of a participating agency are described in § 214.307 and § 214.309. At the end of the approval period, and upon completion of a successful performance review, if conducted, HUD will reapprove agencies.
§ 214.205
Appeals.
An agency making an application for approval, or an approved agency seeking reapproval, shall have the right to appeal any adverse decisions rendered by HUD under this part:
(a)
Appeal must be in writing.
An agency may make a formal written appeal to HUD.
(b)
Timeliness.
HUD must receive an appeal within 30 days of the date of the HUD decision letter to the applicant
agency. HUD is not bound to review appeals received after this 30-calendar day period.
(c)
Other action.
Nothing in this section prohibits HUD from taking such other action against an agency as provided in 24 CFR part 24, or from seeking any other remedy against an agency available to HUD by statute or otherwise.

# Subpart D—Program Administration
§ 214.300
Counseling services.
(a)
Basic requirements.
(1) Agencies must provide counseling to current and potential homeowners and tenants to assist them in improving their housing conditions and in meeting the responsibilities of homeownership or tenancy.
(2) Except for reverse mortgage counseling, housing counselors and clients must establish an action plan for each counseling client.
(3) Counseling may take place at the housing counseling agency facility or at an alternate location, and may be conducted by telephone, or via collaborative online software. Agencies must ensure that any telephonic or collaborative online software, or any form of counseling, is accessible for persons with disabilities, in accordance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), 24 CFR parts 8 and 9, and the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
). All agencies participating in HUD's Housing Counseling program must, upon a client's request, refer clients to participating agencies that provide in-person counseling services in accordance with § 214.303(e).
(4) Regardless of setting or format, all participating agencies must continue to meet the requirements of § 214.103(d), 214.103(g), and 214.103(h).
(5) Regardless of setting or format, counseling activities must be limited to the geographic area specified in the agency's approved housing counseling work plan.
(6) With prior approval from HUD, a network of affiliated counselors or a HUD roster of counselors, designed to meet a special housing counseling need, may be permitted to provide specified types of counseling nationally.
(7) All participating agencies that offer group educational sessions must also offer individual counseling on the same topics covered in the group educational sessions.
(8) All participating agencies that provide homeownership counseling, shall address the entire process of homeownership, including, but not limited to, the decision to purchase a home, the selection and purchase of a home, the home inspection process, issues arising during or affecting the period of ownership of a home (including, but not limited to, financing, refinancing, default, and foreclosure, and other financial decisions), and the sale or other disposition of a home.
(9) All participating agencies that provide rental housing counseling shall address issues related to the rental of residential property, which may include counseling regarding future homeownership opportunities, the decision to rent, responsibilities of tenancy, affordability of renting, and eviction prevention.
(10) As part of the homeownership counseling process, participating agencies shall provide clients with such materials as HUD may require regarding the availability and importance of obtaining an independent home inspection.
(b)
Counseling services.
For each client, all agencies participating in HUD's Housing Counseling program shall offer the following basic services:
(1) Housing counseling, on at least one of the topics described in paragraph (d) of this section, that enables a client to make informed and reasonable decisions to achieve his or her housing goal.
(2) Referrals to local, state, and federal resources.
(c)
Follow-up.
Make a reasonable effort to have follow-up communication with the client, when possible, to assure that the client is progressing toward his or her housing goal, to modify or terminate housing counseling, and to learn and report outcomes.
(d)
Agency's housing counseling work plan.
(1) A participating agency shall deliver housing counseling services consistent with the agency's housing
counseling work plan. The work plan should identify housing counseling services to be provided in response to one or more of the needs in targeted communities and geographic areas where the agency and its branches and affiliates provide their housing counseling services.
(2) Participating agencies may also conduct marketing and outreach, including, but not limited to, providing general information about housing opportunities, conducting information campaigns, and raising awareness about critical housing topics such as predatory lending and fair housing topics.
(e)
Approved housing counseling, education, and outreach topics.
The following are examples of approved housing counseling, education, and outreach topics that participating agencies may provide to and discuss with clients:
(1) Prepurchase/homebuying, including, but not limited to: Advice regarding readiness and preparation, Federal Housing Administration-insured financing, housing selection and mobility, search assistance, fair housing and predatory lending, budgeting and credit, loan product comparison, purchase procedures, and closing costs;
(2) Resolving or preventing mortgage delinquency, including, but not limited to: Default and foreclosure, loss mitigation, budgeting, and credit;
(3) Home maintenance and financial management for homeowners, including, but not limited to: Escrow funds, budgeting, refinancing, home equity, home improvement, utility costs, energy efficiency, rights and responsibilities of home owners, and reverse mortgages;
(4) Rental topics, including, but not limited to: HUD rental and rent subsidy programs; other federal, state or local assistance; fair housing; housing search assistance; landlord tenant laws; lease terms; rent delinquency; and
(5) Homeless assistance, including, but not limited to: Information regarding emergency shelter, other emergency services, and transitional housing.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 90658, Dec. 14, 2016; 89 FR 75502, Sept. 16, 2024]
§ 214.303
Performance criteria.
To maintain HUD-approved status, a participating agency must meet the following requirements:
(a)
Approval status.
Agencies must continue to comply with approval requirements in § 214.103.
(b)
Workload.
During each 12-month period, the participating agency must provide housing counseling to at least 30 clients. Agencies that offer only housing counseling services limited to reverse mortgages, including home equity conversion mortgages (HECMs), are exempt from this requirement.
(c)
Reporting.
The agency must submit to HUD complete, accurate, and timely activity reports, as described in § 214.317.
(d)
Agency's housing counseling work plan.
The agency must implement the housing counseling work plan and demonstrate reasonable achievement of the outcome objectives approved by HUD, as described in § 214.103(k).
(e)
Client referrals from HUD and other participating agencies.
Except as described in this paragraph, all clients who contact the agency as a result of these referrals must be served. In cases where the agency does not offer the unique services requested by the client or does not have sufficient resources, the agency must refer the client to another participating agency, preferably in the area, or, failing the availability of a participating agency, must make a reasonable effort to refer the client to another agency, that can help the client meet his or her needs.
(f)
Conflicts of interest.
(1) A director, employee, officer, contractor, or agent of a participating agency shall not engage in activities that create a real or apparent conflict of interest. Such a conflict would arise if the director, employee, officer, contractor, agent, his or her spouse, child, general partner, or organization in which he or she serves as employee (other than with the participating counseling agency), or with whom he or she is negotiating future employment, has a direct interest in
the client as a landlord, broker, or creditor, or originates, has a financial interest in, services, or underwrites a mortgage on the client's property, owns or purchases a property that the client seeks to rent or purchase, or serves as a collection agent for the client's mortgage lender, landlord, or creditor.
(2) A director, employee, officer, contractor, or agent of a participating agency shall not refer clients to mortgage lenders, brokers, builders, or real estate sales agents or brokers in which the officer, employee, director, his or her spouse, child, or general partner has a financial interest, neither may they acquire the client's property from the trustee in bankruptcy or accept a fee or any other consideration for referring a client to mortgage lenders, brokers, builders, or real estate sales agents or brokers.
(3) A director, employee, officer, contractor, or agent of a participating agency or any member of his or her immediate family shall avoid any action that might result in, or create the appearance of, administering the housing counseling operation for personal or private gain; providing preferential treatment to any organization or person; or undertaking any action that might compromise the agency's ability to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part and to serve the best interests of its clients.
(4) HUD may investigate agency practices and may take action to inactivate or terminate the agency's approval or participation in the Housing Counseling program.
(5) Participating agencies must notify HUD of conflicts of interest not later than 15 calendar days after the conflict occurred and report to HUD on the corrective action taken to cure the immediate, and avoid future, conflicts.
(g)
Disclosure requirements.
A participating agency must provide to all clients a disclosure statement that explicitly describes the various types of services provided by the agency and any financial relationships between this agency and any other industry partners. The disclosure must clearly state that the client is not obligated to receive any other services offered by the organization or its exclusive partners. Furthermore, the agency must provide information on alternative services, programs, and products.
(h)
Staff and supervision.
The agency must employ staff trained in housing counseling, and at least half the counselors must have at least 6 months of experience in the job they will perform in the agency's Housing Counseling program. Supervisors of the housing counselors must periodically monitor the work of the housing counselors by reviewing client files with the housing counselor to determine the adequacy and effectiveness of the housing counseling. The agency must document these monitoring activities and make the documentation available to HUD upon request.
(i)
Funding.
The agency must maintain a level of funds that enables it to provide housing counseling to at least the required workload of clients every year, whether or not the agency receives HUD funding.
§ 214.305
Agency profile changes.
Participating agencies must notify HUD within 15 days when any of the following occurs:
(a) The agency loses or changes its tax-exempt, nonprofit status.
(b) The agency no longer complies with local and state requirements.
(c) Changes occur in any of the items below:
(1) Address(es) of the agency's main office and the address(es) of its branches and affiliates;
(2) Staff personnel responsible for the Housing Counseling program, such as the housing counselors and management staff;
(3) Telephone numbers of the main office, affiliates, and branches; or
(4) Any other aspect of the agency's purpose or functions that may impair its ability to comply with these regulations or the applicable grant agreement (e.g., lack of qualified housing counselors).
§ 214.307
Performance review.
(a) HUD may conduct periodic on-site or desk performance reviews of all participating agencies.
(b) The performance review will consist of a review of the participating agency's compliance with all program
requirements, including applicable civil rights requirements, and the agency's level of success in delivering counseling services.
§ 214.309
Reapproval and disapproval based on performance review.
Based on the performance review, HUD may determine whether to renew the approval unconditionally or conditionally, temporarily change status to inactive, or terminate approval or participation of the agency.
(a)
Unconditional Reapproval.
If the agency is in full compliance with the performance criteria of this part, HUD may reapprove the agency unconditionally for up to 3 years.
(b)
Conditional Reapproval.
If the agency fails to meet the performance criteria, but the failure does not seriously impair the agency's counseling capability as required in this part, HUD may extend the agency's approval or participation for up to 120 calendar days.
(c)
Inactive status.
HUD may temporarily change an agency's status to inactive, as provided in § 214.200.
(d)
Follow-up Review.
HUD may conduct a follow-up review to determine if the deficiencies have been corrected.
(e)
Termination of HUD Approval.
When HUD determines that the agency's program deficiencies seriously impair the agency's ability to comply with this part, HUD may terminate approval or participation of the agency immediately.
(f)
Appeal.
If HUD does not reinstate the approval, or terminates participation, the agency may file an appeal, as prescribed under § 214.205.
§ 214.311
Housing counseling grant funds.
(a)
HUD housing counseling grant funds.
HUD approval or program participation does not guarantee housing counseling grant funding. Funding for the Housing Counseling Program depends on appropriations from Congress, and are awarded competitively under Federal and HUD regulations and policies governing assistance programs, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545
et seq.
). If housing counseling grant funds become available that are to be competitively awarded, HUD will notify the public through a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in the
Federal Register
and by the Internet or other electronic media.
(b)
Local funding sources.
HUD recommends that approved agencies seek and secure funding from funding sources that may include local and state governments, private foundations, and lending or real estate organizations. Agencies must assure that such arrangements do not violate the provisions regarding conflicts of interest described in § 214.303(e).
(c)
Limitation on distribution of funds.
No housing counseling funds made available under the Housing Counseling Program shall be distributed to:
(1)(i) Any organization that has been convicted for a violation under Federal law relating to an election for Federal office or any organization that employs applicable individuals. For the purposes of this section, applicable individual means an individual who is:
(A) Employed by the organization in a permanent or temporary capacity;
(B) Contracted or retained by the organization; or
(C) Acting on behalf of, or with the express or apparent authority of, the organization; and
(D) Has been convicted for a violation under Federal law relating to an election for Federal office.
(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), a violation under Federal law relating to an election for Federal office includes, but is not limited to, a violation of one or more of the following statutory provisions related to Federal election fraud, voter intimidation, and voter suppression: 18 U.S.C. 241-242, 245(b)(1)(A), 592-611, and 42 U.S.C. 1973.
(2) A participating agency that provides housing counseling through housing counselors who are not HUD certified housing counselors in accordance with § 214.103(n).
(d)
Misuse of housing counseling grant funds.
If any participating agency that receives housing counseling grant funds under the Housing Counseling Program is determined by HUD to have used those housing counseling grant funds in a manner that constitutes a
material violation of applicable statutes and regulations, or any requirements or conditions under which such funds were provided:
(1) HUD shall require that, within 12 months after the date of the determination of such misuse, the agency shall reimburse HUD for such misused amounts and return to HUD any such amounts that remain unused or unobligated for use; and
(2) Such agency shall be ineligible, at any time after the date of such determination of material misuse, to apply for or receive further funds under the Housing Counseling Program.
(3) The remedies under paragraph (d) of this section are in addition to any other remedies that may be available under law.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 90658, Dec. 14, 2016]
§ 214.313
Housing counseling fees.
(a) Participating agencies may charge reasonable and customary fees for housing education and counseling services, as long as the cost does not create a financial hardship for the client. An agency's fee schedule must be posted in a prominent place that is easily viewed by clients, and be available to HUD for review.
(b) Agencies must inform clients of the fee structure in advance of providing services. Clients cannot be charged for client intake.
(c) If any agency chooses to charge fees, the agency must conform to the following guidelines:
(1) Provide counseling without charge to persons who cannot afford the fees;
(2) Fees must be commensurate with the level of services provided;
(3) Agencies may not impose fees upon clients for the same portion of or for an entire service that is already funded with HUD grant funds.
(d) The agency may also be reimbursed from clients for the direct cost of obtaining copies of clients' credit reports from credit reporting bureaus if this does not cause a hardship for the client. In cases where the participating agency receives a discount for the cost of credit reports, this discount must be passed on to the client.
(e) Lenders may pay agencies for counseling services, through a lump sum or on a case-by-case basis, provided the level of payment does not exceed a level that is commensurate with the services provided, and is reasonable and customary for the area, and does not violate requirements under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
). These transactions and relationships must be disclosed to the client as required in § 214.303(g).
§ 214.315
Recordkeeping.
(a)
Recordkeeping system.
Each participating housing counseling agency must maintain a recordkeeping system. The system must permit HUD to easily access all information needed for a performance review. This system must meet the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, 24 CFR 1.6, and 24 CFR part 121.
(b)
File retention requirements.
Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records and all other pertinent records, both electronic and on paper, shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the date the case file was terminated for housing counseling. If the housing counseling agency is a recipient of a HUD housing counseling grant, then the client files for the housing counseling grant year must be retained for 3 years from the date the final grant invoice was paid by HUD.
(c)
Grant activities.
Recipients of HUD housing counseling grants are required to report activities under the grant in a format acceptable to HUD and within the designated time frames required by the applicable grant agreement.
(d)
Race, ethnicity, and income data.
Participating agencies must maintain current and accurate data on the race, ethnicity, and income of their counseling clients and education participants.
(e)
Client file.
The housing counseling agency must maintain a separate confidential file for each counseling client to document the action plan and the services provided to the client, as described in § 214.300. For all counseling, except for HECM counseling, the client file must include an action plan. The client file may be for an individual or
household or for a group of clients with the same housing need.
(f)
Group education file.
The housing counseling agency must maintain a separate confidential file for each course provided. This file must contain a list of all participants, their race, ethnicity and income data, course title, course outline, instructors, and date of each course.
(g)
Confidentiality.
Participating agencies must ensure the confidentiality of each client's personal and financial information, including credit reports, whether the information is received from the client or from another source. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of, or improper use of, credit reports may subject the agency to penalties under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (14 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
).
(h)
Termination of services.
The housing counseling agency must document in the client's file termination of housing counseling. Termination occurs or may occur under any of these conditions:
(1) The client meets his or her housing need or resolves the housing problem;
(2) The agency determines that further housing counseling will not meet the client's housing need or resolve the client's housing problem;
(3) The agency attempts to, but is unable to, locate the client;
(4) The client does not follow the agreed-upon action plan;
(5) The client otherwise terminates housing counseling; or
(6) The client fails to appear for housing counseling appointments.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 214.317
Reporting.
All participating agencies shall submit to HUD activity reports, which may be required up to quarterly. The reports must be submitted in the format, by the deadline, and in the manner prescribed by HUD. Participating agencies that are also recipients of HUD grants or subgrants may be required to submit additional reports, as described in their grant agreements and prescribed by HUD.

# Subpart E—Other Federal Requirements
§ 214.500
Audit.
Housing counseling grant recipients and subrecipients shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. HUD must be provided a copy of the audit report within 30 days of completion.
[72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 214.503
Other requirements.
In addition to the requirements of this part, the Housing Counseling program is subject to applicable federal requirements in 24 CFR 5.105.

# Subpart F—Certification of Tribal Housing Counselors

# Source:
89 FR 49807, June 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 214.600
Tribal housing counselor certification.
(a) This subpart applies only to housing counseling required under or provided in connection with the Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) program or the Indian Community Development Block Grant (ICDBG) program. Indian Tribes, tribally designated housing entities (TDHEs), and other tribal entities funding housing counseling required under or provided in connection with IHBG or ICDBG programs shall not be subject to the requirements of this part, except as otherwise provided in this subpart.
(b) Housing counseling required under or provided in connection with IHBG or ICDBG programs must be provided by a HUD-certified housing counselor or a HUD-certified Tribal housing counselor.
(c) HUD will certify an individual housing counselor to provide housing counseling required under or provided in connection with IHBG or ICDBG programs upon verification that the person:
(1) Passes a standardized written examination to demonstrate competency in each of the following areas:
(i) Financial management;
(ii) Property maintenance;
(iii) Responsibilities of homeownership and tenancy;
(iv) Fair housing laws and requirements;
(v) Housing affordability; and
(vi) Avoidance of, and response to, rental or mortgage delinquency and avoidance of eviction or mortgage default; and
(2) Works for an Indian Tribe, TDHE, or other Tribal entity.
(d) To provide housing counseling required under or provided in connection with HUD programs other than the IHBG and ICDBG programs, an individual working for an Indian Tribe, TDHE, or other Tribal entity must meet the housing counseling certification requirement under § 214.103(n), including the standardized written examination required under § 214.103(n)(2), and the Indian Tribe, TDHE, or other Tribal entity must be a participating agency).
(e) Entities and individuals providing housing counseling under this subpart must be certified by the Office of Housing Counseling by 48 months from the effective date of this rule or 30 days after HUD makes the Tribal certification examination available, whichever is later. HUD will publish a document in the
Federal Register
to announce the start of the testing and certification requirement.
§ 214.601
[Reserved]
Pt. 219

# PART 219—FLEXIBLE SUBSIDY PROGRAM FOR TROUBLED PROJECTS
Sec.
219.1
Program operations.
219.2
Savings provision.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
61 FR 14405, Apr. 1, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 219.1
Program operations.
Effective May 1, 1996, the Flexible Subsidy Program for Troubled Projects will be governed and operate under the statutory provisions codified at 12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a, under the administrative policies and procedures contained in any applicable HUD Handbooks, and other administrative bulletins and notices as the Department may issue from time to time.
§ 219.2
Savings provision.
Part 219, as it existed immediately before May 1, 1996, (contained in the April 1, 1995 edition of 24 CFR, parts 200 to 219) will continue to govern the rights and obligations of housing owners, tenants, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development with respect to units and projects assisted under the Flexible Subsidy Program for Troubled Projects prior to May 1, 1996. A list of any amendments to this part published after the CFR revision date is available from the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410.
Pt. 220

# PART 220—MORTGAGE INSURANCE AND INSURED IMPROVEMENT LOANS FOR URBAN RENEWAL AND CONCENTRATED DEVELOPMENT AREAS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Homes
Sec.
220.251
Cross-reference.
220.252
Forbearance of foreclosure and assignment of mortgage.
220.253
Substitute mortgagors.
220.275
Method of paying insurance benefits.

# Insured Home Improvement Loans
220.350
Cross-reference.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Projects
220.501
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Projects

# Project Mortgage Insurance
220.751
Cross-reference.
220.753
Forbearance relief.
220.765
Special insurance benefits—forbearance relief cases.

# Insured Project Improvement Loans
220.800
Definitions.
220.801
Initial insurance endorsement.
220.802
Final insurance endorsement.
220.803
Effect of insurance endorsement.
220.804
Insurance premiums.
220.804a
Mortgagee's late charge.
220.805
Termination of insurance.
220.806
Pro rata refund of insurance premium.
220.810
Definition of default.
220.811
Date of default.
220.812
Notice of default.
220.813
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
220.814
Election of action.
220.820
Maximum claim period.
220.821
Items to be filed on submitting claim.
220.822
Claim computation; items included.
220.823
Claim computation; items deducted.
220.830
Debenture interest rate.
220.832
Maturity of debentures.
220.834
Registration of debentures.
220.836
Form and amounts of debentures.
220.838
Redemption of debentures.
220.840
Issue date of debentures.
220.842
Cash adjustment.
220.850
Assignment of insured loans.

# Subpart E—Servicing Responsibilites—Homes
220.900
Cross-reference.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1713, 1715b, 1715k, and 1735d; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24573, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Homes
§ 220.251
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of subpart B, part 203 of this chapter covering mortgages insured under section 203 of the National Housing Act apply to mortgages covering 1- to 11-family dwellings insured under section 220 of the National Housing Act, except the following:
Sec.
203.258 Substitute mortgagors.
203.259 Scope.
203.280 One-time MIP.
203.281 Calculation of one-time MIP.
203.282 Mortgagee's late charge and interest.
203.283 Refund of one-time MIP.
203.340 Conditions of special forbearance relief.
203.342 Recasting of mortgage.
203.343 Partial release, addition or substitution of security.
203.350 Assignment of defaulted mortgage—ingeneral.
203.350a Assignment of defaulted mortgage.
203.351 Application for insurance benefits and fiscal data.
203.353 Certification by mortgagee.
203.400 Method of payment.
203.402a Reimbursement for uncollected interest.
203.420 Nature of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
203.421 Allocation of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund income or loss.
203.422 Right and liability under Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
203.423 Distribution of distributive shares
203.424 Maximum amount of distributive shares.
203.425 Finality of determination.
203.438 Mortgages on Indian land insured pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act.
203.439 Mortgages on Hawaiian home lands insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act.
203.439a Mortgages on property in Allegany Reservation of Seneca Nation of Indians authorized by section 203(q) of the National Housing Act.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, all references in part 203 of this chapter to section 203 of the act shall be construed to refer to section 220 of the act, and all references to the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall be construed to refer to the General Insurance Fund.
[36 FR 24573, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 29304, June 8, 1977; 48 FR 28807, June 23, 1983; 51 FR 21874, June 16, 1986; 52 FR 8069, Mar. 16, 1987; 52 FR 28470, July 30, 1987; 52 FR 48203, Dec. 21, 1987; 53 FR 9869, Mar. 28, 1988; 55 FR 34808, Aug. 24, 1990]
§ 220.252
Forbearance of foreclosure and assignment of mortgage.
All of the provisions of §§ 203.340 through 203.342, 203.350, 203.352 and 203.353 of this chapter shall apply to mortgages insured under this subpart, except that the provisions relating to forbearance of foreclosure, recasting of the mortgage and assignment of a defaulted mortgage, shall be applicable only to a mortgage covering a property having not more than four dwelling units.
§ 220.253
Substitute mortgagors.
(a)
Selling mortgagor.
The mortgagee may effect the release of a mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note only if it obtains the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, as provided by this section.
(b)
Purchasing mortgagor.
(1) The Commissioner may approve a substitute mortgagor with respect to any mortgage insured under subpart A of this part, if the substitute mortgagor is to occupy the dwelling as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 220.30(d)).
(2) The Commissioner may approve as a substitute mortgagor an eligible non-occupant mortgagor (as defined in § 220.30(d)) with respect to any mortgage insured under this part, only if the outstanding balance of the mortgage does not exceed the Commissioner's estimate of:
(i) The replacement cost of the property as of the date the mortgage was originally accepted for insurance, or the date the substitute mortgagor is approved by the Commissioner, which ever is greater, in the case of a dwelling described in § 220.30(a) (1) or (2); or
(ii) The cost of repair or rehabilitation, plus the Commissioner's estimate of the replacement cost of the property as of either the date the mortgage was originally accepted for insurance, or the date the substitute mortgagor is approved by the Commissioner, whichever is greater, in the case of a dwelling described in § 220.30(a) (3) or (4).
(c)
Applicability—current mortgagor.
Paragraph (b) of this section applies to the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, only if the mortgage executed by the original mortgagor met the conditions of § 203.258(c) of this chapter.
(d)
Applicability—earlier mortgagor.
The occupancy and similar requirements set forth in § 203.258(d) of this chapter apply to mortgages insured under subpart A of this part.
(e) Mortgagees approved for participation in the Direct Endorsement program under § 203.3 may, subject to limitations established by the Commissioner, themselves approve an appropriate substitute mortgagor under this section for mortgages which they own or service, and need not obtain further specific approval from the Commissioner.
(f)
Definition.
As used in this section, the term
substitute mortgagor
includes: (1) Persons who, upon the release by a mortgagee of a previous mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note, assume this liability and agree to pay the mortgage debts; and (2) persons who purchase without assuming liability on the mortgage note, or purchase where no release is given by the mortgagee to the previous mortgagor.
[55 FR 34808, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 58351, Dec. 9, 1992]
§ 220.275
Method of paying insurance benefits.
If the application for insurance benefits is acceptable to the Commissioner, all of the insurance claim shall be paid in cash unless the mortgagee files a written request with the application for payment in debentures. If such a request is made, all of the claim shall be paid by issuing debentures and by making a cash payment adjusting any differences between the total amount of the claim and the amount of the debentures issued.

# Insured Home Improvement Loans
§ 220.350
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of §§ 203.440 through 203.495 of this chapter covering insured home improvement loans under section 203(k) of the Act shall apply to home improvement loans on one-to-four family dwellings under section 220(h) of the Act, except as set out in paragraph (b).
(b) The provisions of §§ 203.473(a) shall not be applicable to home improvement loans on one-to-four family dwellings under section 220(h) of the Act.
[52 FR 1330, Jan. 13, 1987]

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Projects
§ 220.501
Eligibility requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 220 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715k), as amended.
[61 FR 14405, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Projects

# Project Mortgage Insurance
§ 220.751
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of subpart B, part 207, of this chapter, covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act, apply with full force and effect to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 220 of the National Housing Act, except § 207.256b Modification of mortgage terms.
(b) For the purposes of the portion of this subpart, covering multifamily project mortgages, all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the National Housing Act shall be deemed to refer to section 220 of the National Housing Act.
[36 FR 24573, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 80 FR 51468, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 220.753
Forbearance relief.
(a) In a case where the mortgage is in default, the mortgagor and the mortgagee may enter into a forbearance agreement for the reduction or suspension of regular mortgage payments for a specified period of time, if the following requirements are met:
(1) The mortgage was endorsed for insurance on or after July 7, 1961.
(2) The Commissioner determines that the default was due to circumstances beyond the mortgagor's control and that the mortgage probably will be restored to good standing within a reasonable period of time and evidences such determination by written approval of the forbearance agreement.
(b) The time specified in § 207.258(a) of this chapter, within which a mortgagee shall give the Commissioner written notice of its intention to file an insurance claim, shall be suspended for the period of time specified in the forbearance agreement as long as the mortgagor complies with the requirements of such agreement.
(c) If the mortgagor fails to meet the requirements of a forbearance agreement or to cure the default under the mortgage at the expiration of the forbearance period, and such failure continues for a period of 30 days, the mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner of such failure. Within 45 days thereafter, unless a modification or extension of the forbearance agreement has been approved by the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner of its election to file an insurance claim and of its decision to either assign the mortgage to the Commissioner or acquire and convey title to the property to the Commissioner. If the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the special insurance benefits prescribed in § 220.765 shall be applicable.
§ 220.765
Special insurance benefits—forbearance relief cases.
(a) Upon a failure of the mortgagor to meet the requirements of a forbearance agreement or to cure the default under the mortgage at the expiration of the forbearance period, the mortgagee shall be entitled to obtain a special insurance payment in cash, in lieu of the insurance benefits otherwise provided under this subpart. To receive the special insurance payment, the mortgagee shall assign the mortgage to the Commissioner in compliance with the requirements of § 207.258(b) of this chapter.
(b) The special insurance benefits to the mortgagee shall be a cash payment computed in accordance with § 207.259(b) of this chapter, except that in lieu of the allowance for debenture interest in § 207.259(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter, the payment shall include the amount of the unpaid accrued mortgage interest computed to the date the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner is filed for record. In addition, there shall be included in the cash payment an amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned from the date the mortgage assignment was filed for record to the date the payment is made; except that when the mortgagee fails to meet any of the applicable requirements of § 207.258(b) of this chapter and § 220.753(c) within the specified times and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), such debenture interest allowance shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken.

# Insured Project Improvement Loans
§ 220.800
Definitions.
All of the definitions contained in § 220.550 shall apply to §§ 220.800
et seq.
In addition the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by the endorsement of the Commissioner upon the note given in connection with an insured loan, incorporating by reference the regulations in §§ 220.800
et seq.
and the applicable provisions of the Act.
(b)
Maturity
means the date on which the loan indebtedness would be extinguished if paid in accordance with periodic payments provided for in the loan.
§ 220.801
Initial insurance endorsement.
The Commissioner shall indicate his insurance of the loan by endorsing the original credit instrument and identifying the section of the Act and the regulations under which the loan is insured and the date of insurance.
§ 220.802
Final insurance endorsement.
When all advances of loan proceeds have been made, and all the terms and conditions of the commitment have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, he shall indicate on the original credit instrument the total of advances he has approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument.
§ 220.803
Effect of insurance endorsement.
From the date of initial endorsement, the Commissioner and the lender shall be bound by the provisions of this subpart to the same extent as if they had executed a contract including the provisions of this subpart and the applicable sections of the Act.
§ 220.804
Insurance premiums.
(a)
First premium.
The lender, upon the initial endorsement of the loan for insurance, shall pay to the Commissioner a first loan insurance premium equal to one-half of one percent of the original face amount of the note.
(b)
Second premium; first payment more than one year following initial endorsement.
If the date of the first principal payment is more than one year following the date of initial insurance endorsement, the lender, upon the anniversary of such insurance date, shall pay a second premium equal to one-half of one percent of the original face amount of the loan.
(c)
Third premium.
On the date of the first principal payment, the lender shall pay a third premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the three premiums shall equal the sum of (1) one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the year following the date of initial insurance endorsement and (2) one-half of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the period from the first anniversary of the date of initial insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(d)
Second premium; first payment one year or less following initial endorsement.
If the date of the first principal payment is one year, or less than one year following the date of initial insurance endorsement, the lender upon such first principal payment date, shall pay a second premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the said two premiums shall equal the sum of (1) one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the period from the date of initial insurance endorsement to the date of first principal payment and (2) one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the year following the date of the first principal payment.
(e)
Second premium; commitment to insure upon completion.
Where the note is initially and finally endorsed for insurance pursuant to a Commitment to Insure Upon Completion, the lender on the date of the first principal payment shall pay a second premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average
outstanding principal obligation of the note for the year following such first principal payment date which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the said two premiums shall equal the sum of one-half of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the note for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(f)
Annual insurance premium.
Until the note is paid in full, or until the loan is assigned to the Commissioner, or until the contract of insurance is otherwise terminated with the consent of the Commissioner, the lender, on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay an annual loan insurance premium equal to one-half of one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following the date on which such premium becomes payable.
(g)
Method of premium payment.
Premiums shall be payable in cash or in debentures at par plus accrued interest. All premiums are payable in advance and no refund can be made of any portion thereof except as hereinafter provided in §§ 220.800
et seq.
(h)
Calculation of premiums.
The premiums payable on and after the date of the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization provisions without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
§ 220.804a
Mortgagee's late charge.
Mortgage insurance premiums which are paid to the Commissioner more than 15 days after the billing date or due date, whichever is later, shall include a late charge of 4 percent of the amount of the payment due, except that no late charge shall be required with respect to any case for which HUD fails to render a proper billing to the mortgagee.
[43 FR 60154, Dec. 26, 1978]
§ 220.805
Termination of insurance.
(a)
Prepayment in full.
The contract of insurance shall be terminated if the loan is paid in full prior to its maturity. Notice of the prepayment shall be given to the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, within 30 days from the date of the prepayment. The insurance termination shall become effective as of the date of the prepayment.
(b)
Voluntary termination.
The contract of insurance shall be voluntarily terminated upon receipt by the Commissioner of a written request, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, by the borrower and the lender for such termination, accompanied by a submission of the original credit instrument for cancellation of the insurance endorsement and the remittance of all sums to which the Commissioner is entitled. The termination shall become effective as of the date these requirements are met.
§ 220.806
Pro rata refund of insurance premium.
Upon termination of loan insurance contract by a payment in full or by a voluntary termination, the Commissioner shall refund to the lender for the account of the borrower an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the current annual loan insurance premium theretofore paid which is applicable to the portion of the year subsequent to the date of the prepayment or the effective date of the voluntary termination of the contract of insurance.
§ 220.810
Definition of default.
(a) If the borrower fails to make any payments due under or provided to be paid by the terms of the note or security instrument and such default continues for a period of 30 days, the note or security instrument shall be considered in default for the purposes of §§ 220.800
et seq.
(b) The failure to perform any other covenant under the note or security instrument shall be considered a default, provided the lender because of such default, has exercised its right under the note or security instrument and accelerated the debt.
(c) If such defaults as defined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section continue for a period of 30 days, the lender shall be entitled to receive the benefits of insurance hereinafter provided.
§ 220.811
Date of default.
For the purposes of §§ 220.800
et seq.,
the date of default shall be considered as:
(a) The date of the first uncorrected failure to perform a covenant or obligation under the note or security instrument; or
(b) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment which subsequent payments by the borrower are insufficient to cover when applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they became due.
§ 220.812
Notice of default.
(a) If the default as defined in § 220.810 is not cured within the 30 day grace period, the lender shall, within 30 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner in writing of such default.
(b) The lender shall give notice in writing to the Commissioner of the failure of the borrower to comply with any covenant or obligation under the security instrument or note regardless of the fact the lender may not have elected to accelerate the debt.
§ 220.813
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
Upon receipt of notice of the failure of the borrower to comply with any covenant or obligation under the security instrument or note, or otherwise being apprised thereof, the Commissioner reserves the right to require the lender to accelerate payment of the outstanding principal balance due in order to protect the interests of the Federal Housing Commissioner.
§ 220.814
Election of action.
Where a real estate mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, chattel mortgage, lien, judgment, or any other security device has been used to secure the payment of a loan made under the provisions of this section, the lender may not, except with the approval of the Commissioner, both proceed against such security and also make claim under its contract of insurance, but shall elect which method it desires to pursue.
§ 220.820
Maximum claim period.
Notice of intention to file claim on a form prescribed by the Commissioner shall be filed within 45 days after the lender becomes eligible for the benefits of the loan insurance, or within such later time as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing.
§ 220.821
Items to be filed on submitting claim.
Within 30 days after the filing of the notice of intention to file claim, or within such further period as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing, the lender shall file with the Commissioner:
(a) The fiscal data pertaining to the loan transaction;
(b) Receipts covering all disbursements as required by the fiscal data form;
(c) The original note and any security instrument or instruments which shall be assigned to the Commissioner without recourse or warranty, except that the lender must warrant that no act or omission of the lender has impaired the validity and priority of such security instrument or instruments, that the security instrument or instruments are prior to all mechanics' and materialmen's liens filed of record subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments regardless of whether such liens attached prior to such recording date, and prior to all liens and encumbrances which may have attached or defects which may have arisen subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments, except such liens or other matters as may be approved by the Commissioner, that the amount stated in the instrument of assignment is actually due and owing under the security instrument or instruments, that there are no offsets or counter claims thereto, and that the lender has a good right to assign such note and security instrument or instruments;
(d) All hazard insurance policies held on property serving as security for the loan, together with a copy of the lender's notification to the carrier authorizing the amendment of the loss payable clause substituting the Commissioner as the holder of the security instrument;
(e) The assignment to the Commissioner of all rights and interests arising under the note and security instrument or instruments so in default, and all claims of the lender against the borrower or others arising out of the loan transaction;
(f) All policies of title or other insurance or surety bonds, or other guarantees and any and all claims thereunder; including evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that the original title coverage has been extended to include the assignment of the note and security instrument or instruments to the Commissioner.
(g) Any property held by the lender or its agents or to which it is entitled and, if payment is requested in debentures, any cash held by the lender or its agents or to which it is entitled, including deposits made for the account of the borrower, and which have not been applied in reduction of the principal of the mortgage indebtedness;
(h) All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers and accounts relating to the loan transaction;
(i) Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require.
§ 220.822
Claim computation; items included.
(a)
Assignment of loan.
Upon an acceptable assignment of the note and security instrument, the Commissioner shall pay the claim of the lender in an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loan plus:
(1) Any accrued interest due as of the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.
(2) Any advances approved by the Commissioner made previously by the lender under the provisions of the note of security instrument or instruments.
(3) Reimbursement for such reasonable collection costs, court costs, and attorney's fees as may be approved by the Commissioner.
(4) Reimbursement for premiums paid on any hazard insurance policies held on the property.
(5) If payment is made in cash, an amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned as of the date insurance settlement occurs, except that when the lender fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of §§ 220.812, 220.820, and 220.821 within the specified time (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the debenture interest shall be computed only to the date to which the particular action should have been taken or to which it was extended.
(b) [Reserved]
[36 FR 24573, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 80 FR 51468, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 220.823
Claim computation; items deducted.
If the lender is to receive payment in cash, there shall be deducted from the total of the added items in § 220.822 the following:
(a) Any balance of the loan not advanced to the borrower;
(b) Any cash held by the lender or its agents or to which it is entitled; including deposits made for the account of the borrower and which have not been applied in reduction of the principal obligation under the note and security instrument or instruments.
§ 220.830
Debenture interest rate.
Debentures shall bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment was issued or as of the date the loan was endorsed for insurance, whichever rate is higher. The applicable rates of interest will be published twice each year as a notice in the
Federal Register.
[47 FR 26125, June 17, 1982]
§ 220.832
Maturity of debentures.
Debentures shall mature 10 years from the date of issue.
§ 220.834
Registration of debentures.
Debentures shall be registered as to principal and interest.
§ 220.836
Form and amounts of debentures.
Debentures issued under subpart D of this part shall be in such form and amounts; and shall be subject to such terms and conditions; and shall include such provisions for redemption, if any,
as may be prescribed by the Secretary, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury; and may be in book entry or certificated registered form, or such other form as the Secretary by regulation may prescribe.
[59 FR 49816, Sept. 30, 1994]
§ 220.838
Redemption of debentures.
Debentures shall, at the option of the Commissioner and with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, be redeemable at par plus accrued interest on any semiannual interest payment date on three months' notice of redemption given in such manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The debenture interest on the debentures called for redemption shall cease on the semiannual interest date designated in the call notice. The Commissioner may include with the notice of redemption an offer to purchase the debentures at par plus accrued interest at any time during the period between the notice of redemption and the redemption date. If the debentures are purchased by the Commissioner after such call and prior to the named redemption date, the debenture interest shall cease on the date of purchase.
§ 220.840
Issue date of debentures.
The debentures shall be issued as of the date of the execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.
§ 220.842
Cash adjustment.
Any difference of less than $50 between the amount of debentures to be issued to the lender and the total amount of the lender's claim, as approved by the Commissioner, may be adjusted by the issuance of a check in payment thereof.
[59 FR 49816, Sept. 30, 1994]
§ 220.850
Assignment of insured loans.
(a) An insured loan may not be transferred or pledged prior to the full disbursement of the loan, except with the prior written approval of the Commissioner which approval may be subject to such conditions and qualifications as the Commissioner may prescribe. Subsequent to full disbursement such loan may be transferred only to a transferee who is a lender approved by the Commissioner. Upon such transfer and the assumption by the transferee of all obligations under the contract of insurance the transferor shall be released from its obligations under the contract of insurance.
(b) The contract of insurance shall terminate with respect to loans described in paragraph (a) of this section upon the happening of either of the following events:
(1) The transfer or pledge of the insured loan to any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, other than an approved lender.
(2) The disposal by a lender of any partial interest in the insured loan by means of a declaration of trust or by a participation or trust certificate or by any other device, unless with the prior written approval of the Commissioner, which approval may be subject to such conditions and qualifications as the Commissioner in his discretion may prescribe:
Provided,
That this paragraph shall not be applicable to any loan so long as it is held in a common trust fund maintained by a bank or trust company exclusively for the collective investment and reinvestment of moneys contributed thereto by the bank or trust company in its capacity as a trustee, executor or administrator; and in conformity with the rules and regulations prevailing from time to time of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pertaining to the collective investment of trust funds:
Provided further,
That this paragraph shall not be applicable to any loan so long as it is held in a common trust estate administered by a bank or trust company which is subject to the inspection and supervision of a governmental agency, exclusively for the benefit of other banking institutions which are subject to the inspection and supervision of a governmental agency, and which are authorized by law to acquire beneficial interests in such common trust estate, nor to any loan transferred to such a bank or trust company as trustee exclusively for the benefit of outstanding owners of undivided interest in the trust estate, under the terms of certificates issued and sold more than three years prior to said transfer, by a corporation which is
subject to the inspection and supervision of a governmental agency.

# Subpart E—Servicing Responsibilities—Homes
§ 220.900
Cross-reference.
All of the provisions of subpart C, part 203 of the chapter concerning the responsibilities of servicers of mortgages insured under section 203 of the National Housing Act apply to mortgages covering 1- to 11-family dwellings insured under section 220 of the National Housing Act, except §§ 203.664 through 203.666.
[52 FR 48203, Dec. 21, 1987, and 53 FR 9869, Mar. 28, 1988]
Pt. 221

# PART 221—LOW COST AND MODERATE INCOME MORTGAGE INSURANCE—SAVINGS CLAUSE

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements—Low Cost Homes—Savings Clause
Sec.
221.1
Savings clause.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Low Cost Homes
221.251
Cross-reference.
221.252
Substitute mortgagors.
221.254
Mortgage insurance premiums.
221.255
Assignment option.
221.256
Interest rate increase and payment of mortgage insurance premiums on mortgages under §§ 221.60 and 221.65
221.275
Method of paying insurance benefits.
221.280
Waived title objections.

# Special Provisions Applicable Only to Mortgages Involving Condominium Units
221.300
Changes in the plan of apartment ownership.
221.305
Condition of the multifamily structure.
221.310
Assessment of taxes.
221.315
Certificate of tax assessment.
221.320
Certificate or statement of condition.
221.325
Cancellation of hazard insurance.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Moderate Income Projects
221.501
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Moderate Income Projects
221.751
Cross-reference.
221.753
Termination of mortgage insurance.
221.755
Premiums first, second, third and operating loss loans.
221.761
Forbearance relief.
221.762
Payment of insurance benefits.
221.763
Special insurance benefits—forbearance relief cases.
221.770
Assignment option.
221.775
Option period.
221.780
Issuance of debentures.
221.785
Date of maturity of debentures.
221.790
Debenture interest rate.
221.795
Displacement—below market interest rate mortgages.

# Subpart E—Servicing Responsibilities—Low Cost Homes
221.800
Cross-reference.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715l, and 1735d; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements—Low Cost Homes—Savings Clause
§ 221.1
Savings clause.
(a) Effective February 20, 2001, the authority to insure mortgages under section 221(d)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l(d)(2)) for low cost and moderate income mortgage insurance is terminated, except that HUD will endorse for insurance validly processed mortgages under direct endorsement where the credit worksheet was signed by the mortgagee's underwriter before February 20, 2001.
(b) Subpart A of this part, as it existed immediately before February 20, 2001, will continue to govern the rights and obligations of insured mortgage lenders, mortgagors, and HUD with respect to section 221(d)(2) single family loans insured before February 20, 2001, or in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, pursuant to the applicable provisions of this subpart.
[66 FR 5913, Jan. 19, 2001]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Low Cost Homes
§ 221.251
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of subpart B, part 203 of this chapter covering mortgages insured under section 203 of the
National Housing Act apply to mortgages covering one- to four-family dwellings insured under section 221 of the National Housing Act, except the following provisions:
Sec.
203.258 Substitute mortgagors.
203.259a Scope.
203.260 Amount of Mortgage Insurance Premium (MIP).
203.261 Calculation of MIP.
203.262 Due date of MIP.
203.264 Payment of MIP.
203.266 Period covered by MIP.
203.268 Pro rata payment of MIP.
203.280 One-time MIP.
203.281 Calculation of one-time MIP.
203.282 Mortgagee's late charge and interest.
203.283 Refund of one-time MIP.
203.288 Discontinuance of adjusted premium charge.
203.295 Voluntary termination of insurance.
203.389 Waived title objections.
203.400 Method of payment.
203.420 Nature of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
203.421 Allocation of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund income or loss.
203.422 Right and liability under Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
203.423 Distribution of distributive shares.
203.424 Maximum amount of distributive shares.
203.425 Finality of determination.
203.436 Claim procedure—graduated payment mortgages.
203.438 Mortgages on Indian land insured pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act.
203.439 Mortgages on Hawaiian home lands insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act.
203.439a Mortgages on property in Allegany Reservation of Seneca Nation of Indians authorized by section 203(q) of the National Housing Act.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, all references in part 203 of this chapter to section 203 of the Act shall be construed to refer to section 221 of the Act, and all references to the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall be construed to refer to the General Insurance Fund.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8663, Apr. 29, 1972; 41 FR 42949, Sept. 29, 1976; 42 FR 29304, June 8, 1977; 47 FR 30754, July 15, 1982; 48 FR 28807, June 23, 1983; 51 FR 21874, June 16, 1986; 52 FR 8069, Mar. 16, 1987; 52 FR 28470, July 30, 1987; 52 FR 48204, Dec. 21, 1987; 53 FR 9869, Mar. 28, 1988; 55 FR 34810, Aug. 24, 1990; 61 FR 37801, July 19, 1996]
§ 221.252
Substitute mortgagors.
(a)
Selling mortgagor.
The mortgagee may effect the release of a mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note only if it obtains the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, as provided by this section.
(b)
Purchasing mortgagor.
The Commissioner may approve a substitute mortgagor with respect to any mortgage insured under subpart A of this part, if the substitute mortgagor is to occupy the dwelling as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 221.20(c)) or is a private nonprofit or public entity as provided in section 221(h) of the National Housing Act.
(c)
Applicability—current mortgagor.
Paragraph (b) of this section applies to the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, only if the mortgage executed by the original mortgagor met the conditions of § 203.258(c) of this chapter.
(d)
Applicability—earlier mortgagor.
The occupancy and similar requirements set forth in § 203.258(d) of this chapter apply to mortgages insured under subpart A of this part.
(e) Mortgagees approved for participation in the Direct Endorsement program under § 203.3 of this chapter may, subject to limitations established by the Commissioner, themselves approve an appropriate substitute mortgagor under the section and need not obtain further specific approval from the Commissioner.
(f)
Definition.
As used in this section, the term
substitute mortgagor
includes:
(1) Persons who, upon the release by a mortgagee of a previous mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note, assume this liability and agree to pay the mortgage debts and
(2) Persons who purchase without assuming liability on the mortgage note or purchase where no release is given by the mortgagee to the previous mortgagor.
[55 FR 34810, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 58351, Dec. 9, 1992]
§ 221.254
Mortgage insurance premiums.
(a) All of the provisions of §§ 203.260 through 203.295 of this chapter relating
to mortgage insurance premiums shall apply to mortgages insured under this subpart, except that as to mortgages meeting the special requirements of § 221.60 or § 221.65, such provisions shall only be applicable under the circumstances prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. Notwithstanding any provision in the mortgage instrument, there shall be no adjusted mortgage insurance premium or voluntary termination charge due the Commissioner on account of the prepayment of any mortgage or the voluntary termination of any mortgage insurance contract where (1) The mortgage is prepaid in full, or (2) the Commissioner receives a request for voluntary termination on or after May 1, 1972.
(b) Whenever the interest rate on a mortgage insured under this part as having met the special requirement of § 221.60 or § 221.65 shall have been increased to the maximum rate in accordance with § 221.60(j), § 221.65(d)(4), or § 221.65(d)(5), the provisions of §§ 203.260 through 203.295 of this chapter relating to mortgage insurance premiums shall apply except that:
(1) References to the original principal amount shall be construed as the scheduled unpaid principal balance, without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments, on the date of the change in interest rate required under the mortgage.
(2) References to the date of the issuance of a Mortgage Insurance Certificate or the date of the endorsement of the credit instrument or the date the insurance becomes effective shall be construed as the date of the change in interest required under the mortgage.
(3) References to the first year of amortization under the mortgage shall be construed as the period beginning on the date of the change in interest rate required under the mortgage and ending on the next anniversary of the beginning of amortization.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8663, Apr. 29, 1972]
§ 221.255
Assignment option.
(a) A mortgagee holding a mortgage insured pursuant to a conditional or firm commitment issued on or before November 30, 1983 has the option to assign, transfer and deliver to the Commissioner the original credit instrument and the mortgage securing it, provided the mortgage is not in default at the expiration of 20 years from the date of final endorsement of the credit instrument. In processing a mortgagee's claim for insurance benefits under this section, the Commissioner may direct the mortgagee to assign, transfer and deliver the original credit instrument, and the mortgage securing it, directly to the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). Upon such assignment, transfer and delivery, either to the Commissioner or to GNMA, as directed, the mortgage insurance contract shall terminate and the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive insurance benefits in accordance with this section.
(b) The mortgagee may exercise its assignment option within 1 year following the twentieth anniversary of the date the mortgage was endorsed for insurance.
(c) Upon the exercise of the assignment option the Commissioner shall issue to the assignor mortgagee debentures having a total face value equal to the amount of the original principal obligation of the mortgage which was unpaid on the date of the assignment, plus accrued interest to such date.
(d) The debentures issued pursuant to the exercise of an assignment option shall be dated as of the date the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner and shall mature 10 years after such date.
(e) The debentures issued pursuant to the exercise of an assignment option shall bear interest at the
going Federal rate
at date of issuance. The
going Federal rate
means the annual rate of interest specified by the Secretary of the Treasury as applicable to the 6-month period which includes the issuance date of the debentures. The Secretary of the Treasury shall determine this applicable rate by estimating the average yield to maturity, on the basis of daily closing market bid quotations or prices during the month of May or the month of November, as the case may be, next preceding such 6-month period, on all outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having a maturity date of 8 to 12 years from the first day
of May or November, as the case may be. If there should be no outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having the 8 to 12 year maturity at the time the Secretary of the Treasury is required to determine the debenture rate involved, the obligation next shorter than 8 years and the obligation next longer than 12 years respectively, shall be used.
(f) Debentures shall bear interest from the date of issue, payable semiannually on the first day of January and the first day of July of each year at the rate in effect on the issue date, a date which shall be established as provided in § 203.410 of this chapter. The interest rate shall be established by the Commissioner in an amount not in excess of the annual rate of interest which the Secretary of the Treasury shall specify as applicable to the 6-month period (consisting of January through June, or July through December) which includes the issuance date of such debentures, which applicable rate for each 6-month period shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, at the request of the Commissioner, by estimating the average yield to maturity, on the basis of daily closing market bid quotations or prices during the calendar month next preceding the establishment of such rate of interest, on all outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having a maturity date of 15 years or more from the first day of such next preceding month, and by adjusting such estimated average annual yield to the nearest one-eighth of 1 per centum.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 49 FR 12697, Mar. 30, 1984]
§ 221.256
Interest rate increase and payment of mortgage insurance premiums on mortgages under § 221.60 and § 221.65.
(a) Where a mortgage meets the special requirements of § 221.60 or § 221.65, the following procedures are applicable:
(1) The mortgagee shall determine, at least biennially, whether the mortgagor has continued to occupy the property securing the mortgage. If the mortgagee determines that the mortgagor is not occupying the property or that the mortgagor has sold the property subject to the mortgage to a purchaser not qualifying under the provisions of § 221.60(h) or § 221.65(d)(4) (as appropriate) for the continuation of a below market interest rate, interest on such mortgage shall be computed by the mortgagee at the highest rate permissible under the mortgage. The computation at the higher rate shall be effective from the first day of the month following the month in which the right to collect interest at the increased rate first accrued, as determined by the mortgagee.
(2) The mortgagee shall determine the mortgagor's family income, at least biennially, and shall increase the mortgage interest pursuant to the requirements of §§ 221.60(g) and 221.65(d)(5), as appropriate, to comply with the requirements of such sections. The computation at the higher rate shall be effective from the first day of the month following the month in which the mortgagee determines that the mortgagor's family income was increased.
(b) The mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, within 30 days of making the determination of the right to compute interest at the higher rate, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, of:
(1) The date on which such right first accrued, and
(2) The outstanding principal balance of the mortgage on the first day of the month following the date on which such right first accrued.
(c) The liability for payment of mortgage insurance premiums shall begin on and be computed from the first day of the month following the date on which the right to compute interest at the higher rate shall have first accrued.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8663, Apr. 29, 1972]
§ 221.275
Method of paying insurance benefits.
If the application for insurance benefits is acceptable to the Commissioner, all of the insurance claim shall be paid in cash unless the mortgagee files a written request with the application for payment in debentures. If such a request is made, all of the claim shall be
paid by issuing debentures and by making a cash payment adjusting any differences between the total amount of the claim and the amount of the debentures issued.
§ 221.280
Waived title objections.
(a)
General provisions.
All of the provisions of § 203.389 of this chapter (relating to the waiver by the Commissioner of objections to title) shall apply to mortgages insured under this subpart, with the exception of mortgages involving condominium units.
(b)
Provisions applicable to condominium units.
Where the mortgage involves a condominium unit, the Commissioner shall not object to title by reason of the following matters:
(1) Violations of a restriction based on race, color, or creed, even where such restriction provides for a penalty of reversion or forfeiture of title or a lien for liquidated damage.
(2) Easements for public utilities along one or more of the property lines, provided the exercise of the rights thereunder do not interfere with any of the buildings or improvements located on the subject property.
(3) Encroachments on the subject property by improvements on adjoining property, provided such encroachments do not interfere with the use of any improvements on the subject property.
(4) Variations between the length of the subject property lines as shown on the application for insurance and as shown by the record or possession lines, provided such variations do not interfere with the use of any of the improvements on the subject property.
(5) Customary buildings or use restrictions for breach of which there is no reversion and which have not been violated to a material extent.

# Special Provisions Applicable Only to Mortgages Involving Condominium Units
§ 221.300
Changes in the plan of apartment ownership.
The mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner of any changes in the plan of apartment ownership and in the administration of the property. Such notification shall be given either at the time of the conveyance of the property or at the time of the assignment of the mortgage. Any changes in such plan shall require approval by the Commissioner.
§ 221.305
Condition of the multifamily structure.
(a) When a family unit is conveyed or a mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the family unit and the common areas and facilities (including restricted common areas and facilities) designated for the particular unit shall be undamaged by fire, earthquake, tornado, or boiler explosion, except if the property has been damaged, either of the following actions shall be taken:
(1) The property may be repaired prior to its conveyance or prior to the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner.
(2) With the prior approval of the Commissioner, the property may be conveyed or the mortgage assigned to the Commissioner without repairing the damage. In such instances, the Commissioner shall deduct from the insurance benefits either his estimate of the decrease in value of the family unit or the amount of any insurance recovery received by the mortgagee, whichever is the greater.
(b) If the property has been damaged by fire and such property was not covered by fire insurance at the time of the damage, the mortgagee may convey the property or assign the mortgage to the Commissioner without deduction from the insurance benefits for any loss occasioned by such fire if the following conditions are met:
(1) The property shall have been covered by fire insurance at the time the mortgage was insured.
(2) The fire insurance shall have been later cancelled or renewal shall have been refused by the insuring company.
(3) The mortgagee shall have notified the Commissioner within 30 days (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve) of the cancellation of the fire insurance or of the refusal of the insuring company to renew the fire insurance. This notification shall have been accompanied by a certification of the mortgagee that diligent efforts were made, but it was unable to obtain fire insurance coverage at reasonably competitive rates
and that it will continue its efforts to obtain adequate fire insurance coverage at competitive rates.
§ 221.310
Assessment of taxes.
When a family unit is conveyed to the Commissioner or a mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the unit shall be assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining only to that unit.
§ 221.315
Certificate of tax assessment.
The mortgagee shall certify, as of the date of filing for record of the deed or assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner, that the family unit is assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining to that unit.
§ 221.320
Certificate or statement of condition.
(a) At the time of the assignment of the mortgage or conveyance of the property to the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall, as of the date of the filing for record of the deed or assignment,
(1) Certify that the conditions of § 221.305(a) have been met; or
(2) Submit a statement describing any such damage that may still exist.
(b) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the mortgagee's certificate or its statement as to damage shall be accepted by the Commissioner as establishing the condition of the family unit and the common areas and facilities including restricted common areas and facilities designated for the particular unit.
§ 221.325
Cancellation of hazard insurance.
The provisions of § 203.382 of this chapter are incorporated by reference and shall apply to hazard insurance policies carried solely for the family unit.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Moderate Income Projects
§ 221.501
Eligibility requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 221 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l), as amended.
[61 FR 14405, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Moderate Income Projects
§ 221.751
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of subpart B, part 207 of this chapter, covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act, apply with full force and effect to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 221 of the National Housing Act, except the following provisions:
Sec.
207.252 First, second, and third premium.
207.252a Premiums—operating loss loans.
207.259 Insurance benefits.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the act shall be construed to refer to section 221 of the Act, and all references to part 207 shall be construed to refer to this subpart.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8663, Apr. 29, 1972; 42 FR 59675, Nov. 18, 1977]
§ 221.753
Termination of mortgage insurance.
In addition to the provisions of § 207.253a, the following requirements apply to certain multifamily mortgages insured under section 221 of the National Housing Act:
(a) For those projects qualifying as eligible low income housing under § 248.201, the contract of insurance may be terminated only as provided in part 248.
(b) For those projects subject to section 250(a) of the National Housing Act, the contract of insurance may be terminated only if the Commissioner determines that the requirements of section 250(a) are met.
[55 FR 38958, Sept. 21, 1990]
§ 221.755
Premiums first, second, third and operating loss loans.
All of the provisions of §§ 207.252 and 207.252a of this chapter, relating to mortgage insurance premiums, apply
to mortgages insured under this subpart that provide for interest at the market rate prescribed in § 221.518(a) except that as to mortgages insured under this subpart pursuant to section 238(c) of the Act all mortgage insurance premiums due in accordance with §§ 207.252 and 207.252a shall be calculated on the basis of one percent. The provisions of § 207.252. shall not apply to:
(a) Mortgages that provide for interest during the construction period at the market rate and for interest subsequent to final endorsement at the below market rate prescribed in § 221.518(b); or
(b) Mortgages encumbering a project in which all units are covered by an annual contributions contract issued pursuant to section 10(c) of the Housing Act of 1937.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 59675, Nov. 18, 1977]
§ 221.761
Forbearance relief.
(a) In a case where the mortgage is in default, the mortgagor and the mortgagee may enter into a forbearance agreement for the reduction or suspension of regular mortgage payments for a specified period of time, if the following requirements are met:
(1) The mortgage was endorsed for insurance on or after July 7, 1961.
(2) The Commissioner determines that the default was due to circumstances beyond the mortgagor's control and that the mortgage probably will be restored to good standing within a reasonable period of time and evidences such determination by written approval of the forbearance agreement.
(b) The time specified in § 207.258(a) of this chapter, within which a mortgagee shall give the Commissioner written notice of its intention to file an insurance claim, shall be suspended for the period of time specified in the forbearance agreement as long as the mortgagor complies with the requirements of such agreement.
(c) If the mortgagor fails to meet the requirements of a forbearance agreement or to cure the default under the mortgage at the expiration of the forbearance period, and such failure continues for a period of 30 days, the mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner of such failure. Within 45 days thereafter, unless a modification or extension of the forbearance agreement has been approved by the Commissioner, the mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner of its election to file an insurance claim and of its decision to either assign the mortgage to the Commissioner or to acquire and convey title to the property to the Commissioner. If the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the special insurance benefits prescribed in § 221.763 shall be applicable.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 51 FR 27838, Aug. 4, 1986]
§ 221.762
Payment of insurance benefits.
All of the provisions of § 207.259 of this chapter relating to insurance benefits apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under this subpart, except as provided in this section:
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Below market interest rate mortgages.
Where the mortgage has been finally endorsed and the special below market interest rate provided in § 221.518(b) is applicable as of the date of default, the 1 percent deduction from insurance benefits prescribed in § 207.259(b)(2)(iv) of this chapter shall not be applicable.
(c)
Mortgages financed with section 11(b) obligations.
Where the funds for a mortgage loan are provided by obligations that are tax-exempt under section 11(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (24 CFR part 811), the one percent deduction from insurance benefits prescribed in § 207.259(b)(2)(iv) of this chapter shall not be applicable to claims with respect to multifamily rental housing projects for which a firm commitment for mortgage insurance was issued on or after March 12, 1979.
[36 FR 24587, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 44 FR 40890, July 13, 1979; 80 FR 51468, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 221.763
Special insurance benefits—forbearance relief cases.
(a) In the case of a mortgage that provides for payment of interest at the market rate prescribed in § 221.518(a), if the mortgagor fails to meet the requirements of a forbearance agreement
or to cure the default under the mortgage at the expiration of the forbearance agreement, the mortgagee shall be entitled to obtain a special insurance payment in cash, in lieu of the insurance benefits otherwise provided under this subpart. To receive the special insurance payment, the mortgagee shall assign the mortgage to the Commissioner in compliance with the requirements of § 207.258(b) of this chapter.
(b) The special insurance benefit to the mortgagee shall be a cash payment computed in accordance with § 207.259(b) of this chapter, except that in lieu of the allowance for debenture interest in § 207.259(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter, the payment shall include the amount of the unpaid accrued mortgage interest computed to the date the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner is filed for record. In addition, there shall be included in the cash payment an amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned from the date the mortgage assignment was filed for record to the date the payment is made; except that when the mortgagee fails to meet any of the applicable requirements of § 207.258(b) of this chapter and § 221.761(c) within the specified times and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), such debenture interest allowance shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken.
§ 221.770
Assignment option.
A mortgagee holding a conditional or firm commitment issued on or before November 30, 1983 (or, in the Direct Endorsement program, a property appraisal report signed by the mortgagee's approved underwriter on or before November 30, 1983) has the option to assign, transfer and deliver to the Commissioner the original credit instrument and the mortgage securing it, provided that the mortgage is not in default at the expiration of 20 years from the date of final endorsement of the credit instrument. In processing a mortgagee's claim for insurance benefits under this section, the Commissioner may direct the mortgagee to assign, transfer and deliver the original credit instrument, and the mortgage securing it, directly to the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). Upon such assignment, transfer and delivery either to the Commissioner or to GNMA, as directed, the mortgage insurance contract shall terminate and the mortgagee shall be entitled to receive insurance benefits in accordance with § 221.780.
[49 FR 12698, Mar. 30, 1984, as amended at 57 FR 58351, Dec. 9, 1992]
§ 221.775
Option period.
The mortgagee may exercise its option to assign within one year following the twentieth anniversary of the date the mortgage was finally endorsed for insurance.
§ 221.780
Issuance of debentures.
Upon the exercise of the assignment option and the satisfactory performance of the requirements as to assignment set out in § 207.258 of this chapter, the Commissioner shall issue the assignor mortgagee debentures having a total par value equal to the amount of the original principal obligation of the mortgage which was unpaid on the date of the assignment, plus accrued interest to such date.
[59 FR 49816, Sept. 30, 1994]
§ 221.785
Date of maturity of debentures.
The debentures issues pursuant to the exercise of an assignment option shall be dated as of the date the mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner and shall mature 10 years after such date.
§ 221.790
Debenture interest rate.
The debentures issued pursuant to the exercise of an assignment option shall bear interest at the
going Federal rate
at date of issuance. The
going Federal rate
means the annual rate of interest specified by the Secretary of the Treasury as applicable to the 6-month period which includes the issuance date of the debentures. The Secretary of the Treasury shall determine this applicable rate by estimating the average yield to maturity, on the basis of daily closing market bid quotations or prices
during the month of May or the month of November, as the case may be, next preceding such 6-month period, on all outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having a maturity date of 8 to 12 years from the first day of May or November, as the case may be. If there should be no outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having the 8 to 12 year maturity at the time the Secretary of the Treasury is required to determine the debenture rate involved, the obligation next shorter than 8 years and the obligation next longer than 12 years respectively shall be used.
§ 221.795
Displacement—below market interest rate mortgages.
(a)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, Owners shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part.
(b)
Temporary relocation.
The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily to permit rehabilitation or other work for the project. Such tenants must be provided:
(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied housing, any increase in monthly rent/utility costs and any incidental expenses.
(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of:
(i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation;
(ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period;
(iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the rehabilitation; and
(iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A “displaced person” (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A “displaced person” shall be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-19), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas.
(d)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(e)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the Owner's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or with the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the Owner. A person who is dissatisfied with the Owner's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office.
(f)
Responsibility of Owner.
(1) The Owner shall certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) that the Owner will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section. The Owner shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the Owner to comply with these provisions.
(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs also may be paid with funds available from other sources.
(3) The Owner shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate
compliance with these provisions. The Owner shall maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons.
(g)
Definition of displaced person.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term
displaced person
means a person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term “displaced person” includes, but may not be limited to:
(i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after the Owner executes the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the amount approved by HUD;
(ii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or
(B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or
(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or
(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or
(iv) Any person, including a person who moves before the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition, if the Owner or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition for the assisted project.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
(i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance;
(ii) The person moved into the property after the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, received written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that he or she would not qualify as a “displaced person” (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project;
(iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or
(iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project.
(3) The Owner may ask HUD, at any time, to determine whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section.
(h)
Definition of initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term
initiation of
negotiations
means the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition.
(Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506-0121)
[59 FR 29330, June 6, 1994]

# Subpart E—Servicing Responsibilities—Low Cost Homes
§ 221.800
Cross-reference.
All of the provisions of subpart C, part 203 of the chapter concerning the responsibilities of servicers of mortgages insured under section 203 of the National Housing Act apply to mortgages covering one- to four-family dwellings to be insured under section 221 of the National Housing Act, except §§ 203.664 through 203.666.
[52 FR 48204, Dec. 21, 1987, and 53 FR 9869, Mar. 28, 1988]
Pt. 231

# PART 231—HOUSING MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR THE ELDERLY

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
Sec.
231.1
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
231.251
Cross-reference.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715v; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24615, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
§ 231.1
Eligibility requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 231 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715v), as amended.
[61 FR 14406, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
§ 231.251
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of part 207, subpart B of this chapter covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act apply to mortgages insured under section 231 of such Act.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the Act shall be construed to refer to section 231 of the Act.
Pt. 232

# PART 232—MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR NURSING HOMES, INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES, BOARD AND CARE HOMES, AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
Sec.
232.1
Eligibility requirements, generally; applicability of certain requirements.
232.2
License.
232.3
Eligible borrower.
232.7
Bathroom.
232.11
Establishment and maintenance of long-term debt service reserve account.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
232.251
Cross-reference.
232.252
Definitions.
232.254
Withdrawal of project funds, including for repayments of advances from the borrower, operator, or management agent.
232.256
Partial payment of claims.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Supplemental Loans To Finance Purchase and Installation of Fire Safety Equipment
232.500
Definitions.

# Fees and Charges
232.505
Application and application fee.
232.510
Commitment and commitment fee.
232.515
Refund of fees.
232.520
Maximum fees and charges by lender.
232.522
Inspection fee.

# Eligible Security Instruments
232.525
Note and security form.
232.530
Disbursement of proceeds.
232.535
Loan multiples—minimum principal.
232.540
Method of loan payment and amortization period.
232.545
Covenant against liens.
232.550
Accumulation of next premium.
232.555
Security instrument and lien.
232.560
Interest rate.
232.565
Maximum loan amount.
232.570
Endorsement of credit instrument.
232.580
Application of payments.
232.585
Prepayment privilege and prepayment charge.
232.586
Minimum principal loan amount.

# Property Requirements
232.590
Eligibility of property.
232.591
Smoke detectors.

# Title
232.595
Eligibility of title.
232.600
Title evidence.

# Form of Contract
232.605
Contract requirements.

# Cost Certification Requirements
232.610
Certification of cost requirements.

# Eligible Borrowers
232.615
Eligible borrowers.
232.616
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers.

# Special Requirements
232.620
Determination of compliance with fire safety equipment requirements.
232.625
Discrimination prohibited.
232.630
Assurance of completion.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations
232.800
Definitions.

# Premiums
232.805
Insurance premiums.
232.805a
Mortgagee's late charge.
232.815
Termination of insurance.
232.825
Pro rata refund of insurance premium.

# Rights and Duties of Lender Under the Contract of Insurance
232.830
Definition of default.
232.840
Date of default.
232.850
Notice of default.
232.860
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
232.865
Election by lender.
232.875
Maximum claim period.
232.880
Items to be delivered on submitting claim.
232.885
Insurance benefits.
232.890
Characteristics of debentures.
232.893
Cash adjustment.

# Assignments
232.895
Assignment of insured loans.

# Extension of Time
232.897
Actions to be taken by lender.

# Subpart E—Insurance of Mortgages Covering Existing Projects
232.901
Mortgages covering existing projects are eligible for insurance.
232.902
Eligible project.
232.903
Maximum mortgage limitations.
232.904
Terms of the mortgage.
232.905
Labor standards and prevailing wage requirements.
232.906
Processing of applications and required fees.

# Subpart F—Eligible Operators and Facilities and Restrictions on Fund Distributions
232.1001
Scope.
232.1003
Eligible operator.
232.1005
Treatment of project operating accounts.
232.1007
Operating expenses.
232.1009
Financial reports.
232.1011
Management agents.
232.1013
Restrictions on deposit, withdrawal, and distribution of funds, and repayment of advances.
232.1015
Prompt notification to HUD and mortgagee of circumstances placing the value of the security at risk.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715w, 1735d, and 1735f-19; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24618, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements

# Source:
61 FR 14406, Apr. 1, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 232.1
Eligibility requirements, generally; applicability of certain requirements.
(a)
Eligibility, generally.
All of the requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, except for the requirements for “eligible mortgagor” in 24 CFR 200.5, apply to mortgages insured under section 232 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715w), as amended.
(b)
Applicability of certain requirements.
As of October 9, 2012 the provisions in 24 CFR 207.255(b)(5), 207.258, 232.3, 232.11, 232.254, 232.903(c) and (d), and subpart F of part 232, excluding
§§ 232.1007, 232.1009, and 232.1015 of subpart F are applicable only to transactions for which a firm commitment has been issued under this part on or after July 12, 2013.
[77 FR 55136, Sept. 7, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 25185, Apr. 30, 2013]
§ 232.2
License.
The Commissioner shall not insure any mortgage under this part unless the facility is regulated by the State, municipality or other political subdivision in which the facility is or is to be located, and the appropriate agency for such jurisdiction provides a license, certificate or other assurances the Commissioner considers necessary, that the facility complies with any applicable State or local standards and requirements for such facility.
§ 232.3
Eligible borrower.
The borrower shall be a single asset entity acceptable to the Commissioner, as may be limited by the applicable section of the Act, and shall possess the powers necessary and incidental to owning the project, except that the Commissioner may approve a non-single asset borrower entity under such circumstances, terms, and conditions determined and specified as acceptable to the Commissioner.
[77 FR 55136, Sept. 7, 2012]
§ 232.7
Bathroom.
(a)
General requirement.
For a board and care home or assisted living facility to be eligible for insurance under this part:
(1) The board and care home or assisted living facility must have no less than one full bathroom provided for every four residents; and
(2) Bathroom access from any bedroom or sleeping area must not pass through a public corridor or area.
(b)
Exemption for existing projects providing memory care.
The following applies to a board and care home or assisted living facility that provides housing for residents in need of memory care,
i.e.,
care for residents who have cognitive impairments, such as Alzheimer's disease or other dementias:
(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a project seeking insurance under subpart E, pursuant to section 223(f) or 223(a)(7) of the National Housing Act, may be eligible for insurance without meeting the general requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, if the project meets the following four requirements:
(i) Memory care residents are in a separate, secured, and locked area of the board and care home or assisted living facility;
(ii) Any bathroom access from a memory care resident's bedroom or sleeping area that passes through a public corridor or area is in a separate, secured, and locked area of the board and care home or assisted living facility prescribed in (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iii) Memory care residents receive full assistance or supervision while bathing; and
(iv) Memory care residents reside in wards that contain no more than two beds per unit and have a half-bath in each unit.
(2) If a facility serving memory care residents also serves residents who are not in a separate, secured, and locked area of the board and care home or assisted living facility, this exemption applies only to the separate, secured, and locked area in which solely memory care residents reside.
[85 FR 38324, June 26, 2020]
§ 232.11
Establishment and maintenance of long-term debt service reserve account.
(a) To be eligible for insurance under this part, and except with respect to Supplemental Loans to Finance Purchase and Installation of Fire Safety Equipment (subpart C of this part), if HUD determines the mortgage presents an atypical long-term risk, HUD may require that the borrower establish, at final closing and maintain throughout the term of the mortgage, a long-term debt service reserve account.
(b) The long-term debt service reserve account, if required, may be financed as part of the initial mortgage amount, provided that the maximum mortgage amount as otherwise calculated is not thereby exceeded.
(c) The amount required to be initially placed in the long-term debt service reserve account and the minimum long-term balance to be maintained in that account will be determined during underwriting and separately identified in the firm commitment. Although HUD may, when appropriate to avert a mortgage insurance claim, permit the balance to fall below the required minimum long-term balance, the borrower may not take any distribution of mortgaged property except when both the long-term debt service reserve account is funded at the minimal long-term level and such distribution is otherwise permissible.
[77 FR 55136, Sept. 7, 2012]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
§ 232.251
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions, except § 207.258b, of part 207, subpart B of this chapter relating to mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act, apply to mortgages insured under section 232 of the Act.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the Act shall be construed to refer to section 232 of the Act.
[36 FR 24618, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 50 FR 38787, Sept. 25, 1985]
§ 232.252
Definitions.
All of the definitions contained in § 232.1 shall apply to this subpart. In addition, as used in this part, the following term shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by the Commissioner's insurance endorsement and includes the provisions of this subpart and of the Act.
§ 232.254
Withdrawal of project funds, including for repayments of advances from the borrower, operator, or management agent.
Borrower may make and take distributions of mortgaged property, as set forth in the mortgage loan transactional documents, to the extent and as permitted by the law of the applicable jurisdiction, provided that, upon each calculation of borrower surplus cash (as defined by HUD), which calculation shall be made no less frequently than semi-annually, borrower must demonstrate positive surplus cash, or to the extent surplus cash is negative, repay any distributions taken during such calculation period within 30 calendar days unless a longer time period is approved by HUD. Borrower shall be deemed to have taken distributions to the extent that surplus cash is negative unless, in conjunction with the calculation of surplus cash, borrower provides to HUD documentation evidencing, to HUD's reasonable satisfaction, a lesser amount of total distributions. To the extent that the provisions of this section are inconsistent with the provisions in a borrower's existing transactional loan documents, including without limitation any HUD-required regulatory agreement, the provisions of the transactional loan documents shall apply.
[77 FR 55136, Sept. 7, 2012]
§ 232.256
Partial payment of claims.
(a) When a lender for a loan on a healthcare project becomes eligible to file an insurance claim and to assign the mortgage to the Commissioner pursuant to § 207.258, the Commissioner may request the lender, in lieu of assignment, to accept a partial payment of the claim under the mortgage insurance contract and recast the mortgage, under such terms and conditions as the Commissioner may determine.
(b) The Commissioner may request the lender to participate in a partial payment of claim in lieu of assignment only after a determination that partial payment would be less costly to the Federal Government than other reasonable alternatives for maintaining the project and that would keep the healthcare facility operational to serve community needs. In addition to any findings that may be provided in other guidance, the Commissioner shall base the determination on the findings listed below:
(1) The lender is entitled, after a default as defined in § 207.255, to assign the mortgage in exchange for the payment of insurance benefits;
(2) The relief resulting from partial payment, when considered with other resources available to the project, would be sufficient to restore the financial viability of the project;
(3) The project is or can (at reasonable cost) be made physically sound;
(4) The current or proposed operator of the facility is satisfactory to the Commissioner, as demonstrated by past experience in operating similar types of healthcare facilities and by state regulatory performance;
(5) The default under the insured mortgage was beyond the control of the borrower and/or operator, or in the case of a transfer of physical assets (TPA), the proposed borrower or operator, unless the Commissioner determines that any borrower/operator deficiencies giving rise to the default have clearly been addressed; and
(6) The project is serving as, or potentially could serve as, a needed nursing home, intermediate care facility, board and care home, or assisted living facility.
(c) Partial payment of a claim under this section shall be made only when:
(1) The property covered by the mortgage is free and clear of all liens other than the insured first mortgage and such other liens as the Commissioner may have approved;
(2) The lender has voluntarily agreed to accept a PPC under the mortgage insurance contract and to recast the remaining mortgage amount under terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner; and
(3) The borrower has agreed to repay to the Commissioner an amount equal to the partial payment, with the obligation secured by a second mortgage on the project containing terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner. The terms of the second mortgage will be determined on a case-by-case basis to ensure that the estimated project income will be sufficient to cover estimated operating expenses and debt service on the recast insured mortgage. The Commissioner may provide for postponed amortization of the second mortgage.
(d) Payment of insurance benefits under this section shall be in cash.
(e) A lender receiving a partial payment of claim, following the Commissioner's endorsement of the mortgage for full insurance under 24 CFR part 252, will pay HUD a fee in an amount set forth through
Federal Register
notice. HUD, in its discretion, may collect this fee or deduct the fee from any payment it makes in the claim process.
[77 FR 72922, Dec. 7, 2012]

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Supplemental Loans To Finance Purchase and Installation of Fire Safety Equipment

# Source:
39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 232.500
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions contained in subpart A, incorporated herein by reference, the following terms, as used in §§ 232.500
et seq.,
shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Insured loan
means a loan insured by the endorsement of the credit instrument by the Commissioner.
(b)
Insurance premium
means the loan insurance premium paid by the financial institution to the Commissioner in consideration of the contract of insurance.
(c)(1)
Fire safety equipment
means equipment that is purchased, installed, and maintained in a nursing home, intermediate care facility, assisted living facility, or board and care home and that meets the following standards for the applicable occupancy:
(i) The edition of The Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association as accepted by the Department of Health and Human Services in 42 CFR 483.70; or
(ii) A standard mandated by a State under the provisions of section 1616(e) of the Social Security Act.
(iii) Any appropriate requirement approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for providers of services under title XVIII or title XIX of the Social Security Act.
(2) In addition to those requirements approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as necessary for the appropriate level of occupancy,
fire safety equipment
may also include fire safety-related improvements that are
not mandatory under the requirements of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, but which the Secretary of Health and Human Services considers acceptable and reasonable for protection against the hazards of fire and which the borrower agrees to install.
(3) For the purposes of this definition, the terms
nursing home
and
intermediate care facility
shall include those facilities designated as skilled nursing facilities or intermediate care facilities by the Department of Health and Human Services.
(d)
Fire safety loan
means any form of secured or unsecured obligation determined by the Commissioner to be eligible for insurance under this subpart and, in the case of an assisted living facility or a board and care home, made with respect to such a home located in a State which the Secretary has determined is in compliance with the provisions of section 1616(e) of the Social Security Act.
(e)
Equipment cost
means the reasonable cost of fire safety equipment fully installed as determined by the Commissioner.
(f)
Insured loan maturity
means the date on which the loan indebtedness would be extinguished if paid in accordance with periodic payments provided for in the loan instrument or instruments.
(g)
Approved lender
means a financial institution or other mortgagee approved by the Commissioner as eligible for insurance under section 2 of the National Housing Act, or a mortgagee approved under section 203(b)(1) of the National Housing Act.
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 50 FR 37522, Sept. 16, 1985; 59 FR 61228, Nov. 29, 1994; 80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]

# Fees and Charges
§ 232.505
Application and application fee.
(a)
Filing of application.
An application for insurance of a fire safety loan for a nursing home, intermediate care facility, assisted living facility or board and care home shall be submitted on an approved HUD form by an approved lender and by the owners of the project to the HUD office.
(b)
Application fee.
See 24 CFR 200.40(d)(2).
[80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.510
Commitment and commitment fee.
(a)
Issuance of commitment.
Upon approval of an application for insurance, a commitment shall be issued by the Commissioner setting forth the terms and conditions upon which the fire safety loan will be insured.
(b)
Type of commitment.
The commitment will provide for the insurance of the loan after satisfactory completion of installation of the fire safety equipment, as determined by the Commissioner.
(c)
Term of commitment.
A commitment shall have a term as the Commissioner deems necessary for satisfactory completion of installation.
(d)
Commitment fee.
See 24 CFR 200.40(d)(2).
(e)
Increase in commitment prior to endorsement.
An application, filed prior to endorsement, for an increase in the amount of an outstanding firm commitment shall be accompanied by an additional application fee. The additional application fee shall be in an amount determined by the Secretary as equal to the amount determined under 24 CFR 200.40(d)(2), which shall not exceed $5.00 per thousand dollars of the amount of the requested increase. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount computed at the same dollar rate per thousand dollars of the amount of increase in commitment as was used for the inspection fee required in the original commitment. The additional inspection fee shall be paid prior to the date installation of fire safety equipment is begun, or, if installation has begun, it shall be paid with the application for increase.
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.515
Refund of fees.
If the amount of the commitment issued or an increase in the loan amount prior to endorsement is less than the amount applied for, the Commissioner shall refund the excess
amount of the application fee submitted by the applicant. If an application is rejected before it is assigned for processing, or in such other instances as the Commissioner may determine, the entire application fee or any portion thereof may be returned to the applicant.
[80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.520
Maximum fees and charges by lender.
See 24 CFR 200.40 titled “HUD fees” and 200.41 titled “Maximum mortgage fees and charges” for maximum fees and charges applicable to mortgages insured under 24 CFR part 232.
[80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.522
Inspection fee.
See 24 CFR 200.40 titled “HUD fees” and 200.41 titled “Maximum mortgage fees and charges” for maximum fees and charges applicable to mortgages insured under 24 CFR part 232.
[80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]

# Eligible Security Instruments
§ 232.525
Note and security form.
The lender shall present for insurance a note and security instrument, if required, on forms approved by the Commissioner for use in the jurisdiction in which the property to be improved is located.
§ 232.530
Disbursement of proceeds.
At the time of endorsement for insurance of the note by the Commissioner, the entire principal amount of the note shall have been disbursed to the borrower or to his creditors for his account and with his consent.
§ 232.535
Loan multiples—minimum principal.
The loan shall involve a principal obligation in multiples of $100, and the minimum principal obligation shall be $10,000.
[40 FR 4908, Feb. 3, 1975]
§ 232.540
Method of loan payment and amortization period.
See 24 CFR 200.82 titled “Maturity” for loan payment and amortization period requirements applicable to mortgages insured under 24 CFR part 232.
[80 FR 48027, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.545
Covenant against liens.
(a) The security instrument shall contain a covenant against the creation by the borrower of additional liens against the property superior or inferior to the lien of such instrument, except with the prior approval of the Commissioner.
(b) The covenant required under paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply where a lien inferior to the lien of the insured mortgage is given in favor of a Federal, State or local governmental agency or instrumentality under such circumstances as may be approved by the Commissioner, provided the source of funds for repayment of the inferior lien is limited to surplus cash or residual receipts.
[36 FR 24641, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 48 FR 35393, Aug. 4, 1983; 49 FR 12215, Mar. 29, 1984]
§ 232.550
Accumulation of next premium.
The security instrument shall provide for payments by the borrower to the lender on each interest payment date of an amount sufficient to accumulate in the hands of the lender one payment period prior to its due date the next annual insurance premium payable by the lender to the Commissioner.
§ 232.555
Security instrument and lien.
The security instrument shall cover the entire property included in the project, shall be a lien on the real property of the project under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the project is located, and may be junior to such prior liens or mortgages indebtedness as the Commissioner may approve. The Commissioner may from time to time require such other security, in lieu of, or in addition to, a lien on real property as he may prescribe.
§ 232.560
Interest rate.
(a) The loan shall bear interest at the rate agreed upon by the lender and the borrower.
(b) Interest shall be payable in monthly installments on the principal amount of the loan outstanding on the due date of each installment.
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 53 FR 3366, Feb. 5, 1988; 53 FR 8885, Mar. 18, 1988]
§ 232.565
Maximum loan amount.
The principal amount of the loan shall not exceed the lower of the Commissioner's estimate of the cost of the fire safety equipment, including the cost of installation and eligible fees, or the amount supported by ninety percent (90%) of the residual income, which is ninety percent (90%) of the amount of net income remaining after payment of all existing debt service requirements, as determined by the Commissioner. The cost of installation may include the cost of such other work to be performed on the project necessary to meet the requirements of the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Commissioner to enhance the fire safety of the project, and such costs incidental to installation as may be approved by the Commissioner.
[40 FR 4908, Feb. 3, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 48028, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.570
Endorsement of credit instrument.
The Commissioner shall indicate his insurance of the loan by endorsing the credit instrument and identifying the section of the Act and regulations under which the loan is insured and the date of insurance, subject to the presentation and approval by him of the following:
(a) Certification of full disbursement of loan proceeds as provided for in § 232.530.
(b) Certification of costs as required by § 232.610.
(c) Certification that fire safety equipment was installed as required by § 232.500(c).
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 48028, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.580
Application of payments.
(a) The security instrument shall provide that all monthly payments to be made by the borrower shall be added together and this aggregate amount shall be paid by the borrower upon each monthly payment date in a single payment. The lender shall apply the payment to the following items in the order set forth:
(1) Premium charges under the contract of insurance;
(2) Interest on the loan;
(3) Amortization of the principal of the loan;
(b) Any deficiency in the amount of any monthly payments required under paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute an event of default and the loan shall further provide for a grace period of 30 days within which time the default must be cured.
§ 232.585
Prepayment privilege and prepayment charge.
The security instrument shall contain a provision permitting prepayment of the loan in whole or in part upon any interest payment date after giving to the lender 30 days' advance written notice and it may contain a provision, with the approval of the Commissioner, for a reasonable charge in the event of prepayment.
§ 232.586
Minimum principal loan amount.
A mortgagee may not require, as a condition of providing a loan secured by a mortgage insured under this subpart, that the principal amount of the mortgage exceed a minimum amount established by the mortgagee.
[53 FR 8885, Mar. 18, 1988]

# Property Requirements
§ 232.590
Eligibility of property.
(a) A loan to be eligible for insurance shall be on real estate held:
(1) In fee simple; or
(2) On the interest of the lessee under a lease for not less than ninety-nine years which is renewable; or
(3) Under a lease having a period of not less than “twenty-five” years to run from the date the loan is executed.
(b) The property constituting security for the loan transaction must be held by an eligible borrower as herein defined and must at the time the loan is insured be free and clear of all liens
other than those specifically approved by the Commissioner.
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974; 39 FR 30349, Aug. 22, 1974]
§ 232.591
Smoke detectors.
After October 30, 1992, each occupied room must include at least one battery-operated or hard-wired smoke detector in proper working condition. If the room is occupied by hearing-impaired persons, the smoke detector must have an alarm system designed for hearing-impaired persons, unless the smoke alarm is connected to a central alarm system that is monitored on a 24-hour basis, or otherwise meets industry standards.
[57 FR 33850, July 30, 1992]

# Title
§ 232.595
Eligibility of title.
In order for the property which is to be the security for a loan to be insured under this subpart to be eligible for insurance, the Commissioner shall determine that the title to the property is vested in the borrower as of the date the security instrument is filed for record. The title evidence will be examined by the Commissioner and the endorsement of the credit instrument for insurance shall be evidence of its acceptability.
§ 232.600
Title evidence.
The lender, without expense to the Commissioner, shall furnish to the Commissioner a policy of title insurance, or if the lender is unable to furnish a policy for reasons satisfactory to the Commissioner, the lender, without expense to the Commissioner, shall furnish an abstract of title. The following are the requirements covering the title insurance and abstract of title:
(a) The policy of title insurance shall be issued by a company, and in a form, satisfactory to the Commissioner. The policy shall name as the insureds the lender and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, as their respective interests may appear. The policy shall provide that upon acquisition of title by the lender or the Secretary, the policy of title insurance will continue to provide the same coverage as the original policy, and will run to the lender or the Secretary, as the case may be.
(b) The abstract of title shall be satisfactory to the Commissioner, prepared by an abstract title company or an individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title, accompanied by a legal opinion satisfactory to the Commissioner, as to the quality of such title, signed by an attorney at law experienced in the examination of titles.
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 58 FR 34216, June 24, 1993]

# Form of Contract
§ 232.605
Contract requirements.
The contract between the mortgagor and the general contractor may be in the form of a lump sum contract, a cost plus contract, or different or alternative forms of contract specified by the Commissioner.
[80 FR 48028, Aug. 11, 2015]

# Cost Certification Requirements
§ 232.610
Certification of cost requirements.
(a)
Certificate and adjustment.
No loan shall be insured unless a certification of actual cost is made by the contractor.
(b)
Cost computation.
The term
actual cost of the improvements
shall mean the cost to the borrower of the improvements, after deducting the amount of any kickbacks, rebates, or trade discount received in connection with the improvements, and including the amounts paid under any contract for the improvements, labor, materials, and for any other items of expense approved by the Commissioner.
(c)
Statement of facts.
Any agreement, undertaking, statement or certification required in connection with cost certification shall specifically state that it has been made, presented and delivered for the purpose of influencing an official action of the Commissioner and may be relied upon as a true statement of the facts contained therein.
(d)
Incontestability.
Upon the Commissioner's approval of the cost certification, such certification shall be final
and incontestable except for fraud or material misrepresentation on the part of the borrower.
(e)
Records.
The borrower shall keep and maintain adequate records of all costs of any construction improvements or other cost items not representing work under the general contract and shall require the builder to keep similar records and, upon request by the Commissioner, shall make available for examination such records, including any collateral agreements.
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 48028, Aug. 11, 2015]

# Eligible Borrowers
§ 232.615
Eligible borrowers.
(a) In order to be eligible as a borrower under this subpart the applicant shall be a profit or non-profit entity, which owns a nursing home or intermediate care facility for which the Secretary of Health and Human Services has determined that the installation of fire safety equipment in such facility is necessary to meet the applicable requirements of the Secretary of Health and Human Services for providers of services under Title XVIII and Title XIX of the Social Security Act and that upon completion of the installation of such equipment the nursing home or intermediate care facility will meet the applicable fire safety requirements of HHS. Until the termination of all obligations of the Commissioner under an insurance contract under this subpart and during such further period of time as the Commissioner shall be the owner, holder, or reinsurer of the loan, the borrower shall be regulated or restricted by the Commissioner as to methods of operation including requirements for maintenance of fire safety equipment.
(b) Also eligible as a borrower shall be a profit or nonprofit entity which owns an assisted living facility or board and care home for which HUD has determined that the installation of fire safety equipment is approvable under the definition contained in § 232.500(c).
[39 FR 28966, Aug. 12, 1974; 39 FR 30349, Aug. 22, 1974, as amended at 50 FR 37523, Sept. 16, 1985; 59 FR 61228, Nov. 29, 1994; 80 FR 48028, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.616
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers.
To be eligible for mortgage insurance under this subpart, the borrower must meet the requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers, as provided by part 200, subpart U, of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0118)
[54 FR 39695, Sept. 27, 1989]

# Special Requirements
§ 232.620
Determination of compliance with fire safety equipment requirements.
Prior to Endorsement, applicant must provide certification that the installed improvements will meet HHS, as well as all other Federal, state and local requirements for fire safety equipment, if applicable.
[80 FR 48028, Aug. 11, 2015]
§ 232.625
Discrimination prohibited.
Any contract or subcontract executed for the installation of equipment, or construction of improvements to the project shall provide that there shall be no discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment because of sex, religion, race, color, creed or national origin.
§ 232.630
Assurance of completion.
If the property upon which the fire safety equipment is to be installed is subject to a mortgage insured or held by the Commissioner pursuant to subpart B of this part, the Commissioner may require such assurance of completion of the contract for installation as he may from time to time prescribe.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations

# Source:
39 FR 28970, Aug. 12, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 232.800
Definitions.
All of the definitions contained in § 232.500 shall apply to this subpart. In addition, as used in this subpart, the
following term shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by the endorsement of the Commissioner upon the note given in connection with an insured loan and includes the provisions of this subpart and the applicable provisions of the Act.
(b)
Maturity
means the date on which the loan indebtedness would be extinguished if paid in accordance with periodic payments provided for in the loan.

# Premiums
§ 232.805
Insurance premiums.
(a)
First premium.
The lender, upon the endorsement of the loan for insurance, shall pay to the Commissioner a first loan insurance premium equal to one percent of the original face amount of the note.
(b)
Second premium.
The lender, on the date of the first principal payment, shall pay a second premium equal to one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following such first principal payment date which shall be adjusted as of that date so that the aggregate of the first and second premiums shall equal the sum of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(c)
Annual insurance premium.
Until the note is paid in full, or until the loan is assigned to the Commissioner, or until the contract of insurance is otherwise terminated with the consent of the Commissioner, the lender, on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay an annual loan insurance premium equal to one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following the date on which such premium becomes payable.
(d)
Method of premium payment.
Premiums shall be payable in cash or in debentures of the General Insurance Fund at par plus accrued interest. All premiums are payable in advance and no refund can be made of any portion thereof except as provided in § 232.800
et seq.
(e)
Calculation of premiums.
The premiums payable on and after the date of the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization provisions without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
§ 232.805a
Mortgagee's late charge.
Mortgage insurance premiums which are paid to the Commissioner more than 15 days after the billing date or due date, whichever is later, shall include a late charge of 4 percent of the amount of the payment due, except that no late charge shall be required with respect to any case for which HUD fails to render a proper billing to the mortgagee.
[43 FR 60154, Dec. 26, 1978]
§ 232.815
Termination of insurance.
(a)
Prepayment in full.
The contract of insurance shall be terminated if the loan is paid in full prior to its maturity. Notice of the prepayment shall be given to the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, within 30 days from the date of the prepayment. The insurance termination shall become effective as of the date of the prepayment, or 30 days prior to the Commissioner's receipt of the prepayment notice, whichever is later.
(b)
Voluntary termination.
The contract of insurance shall be voluntarily terminated upon receipt by the Commissioner of a written request, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, by the borrower and the lender for such termination, accompanied by a submission of the original credit instrument for cancellation of the insurance endorsement and the remittance of all sums to which the Commissioner is entitled. The termination shall become effective as of the date these requirements are met.
§ 232.825
Pro rata refund of insurance premium.
Upon termination of a loan insurance contract by a payment in full or by a voluntary termination, the Commissioner shall refund to the lender for the account of the borrower an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the
current annual loan insurance premium theretofore paid which is applicable to the portion of the year subsequent to the effective date of the termination.

# Rights and Duties of Lender Under the Contract of Insurance
§ 232.830
Definition of default.
(a) If the borrower fails to make any payments due under or provided to be paid by the terms of the note or security instrument, the note shall be considered in default for the purposes of this subpart.
(b) The failure to perform any other covenant under the note or security instrument shall be considered a default, provided the lender, because of such default, has exercised its rights under the note or security instrument and accelerated the debt.
(c) If such defaults as defined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section continue for a period of 30 days, the lender shall be entitled to receive the benefits of insurance hereinafter provided.
§ 232.840
Date of default.
In computing loan insurance benefits, the date of default shall be considered as:
(a) The date of the lender's acceleration of the debt because of the borrower's uncorrected failure to perform a covenant or obligation under the note or security instrument; or
(b) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment which subsequent payments by the borrower are insufficient to cover when applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they become due.
§ 232.850
Notice of default.
(a) If the default is not cured within the 30 day grace period, as defined in § 232.830(c), the lender shall, within 30 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner in writing of such default.
(b) The lender shall give notice in writing to the Commissioner of the failure of the borrower to comply with any covenant or obligation under the security instrument or note regardless of the fact that the lender may not have elected to accelerate the debt.
§ 232.860
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
Upon receipt of notice of the failure of the borrower to comply with any covenant or obligation under the security instrument or note, or otherwise being apprised thereof, the Commissioner may require the lender to accelerate payment of the outstanding principal balance due.
§ 232.865
Election by lender.
Where a real estate mortgage, or other security instrument has been used to secure the payment of a loan made under the provisions of this subpart and subpart C of this part, the lender may either elect to assign the loan to the Commissioner in exchange for the payment of insurance benefits or may exercise its rights under the note and security instrument in lieu of making a claim for insurance benefits. If the lender elects the latter course, the Commissioner shall be so notified and the contract of insurance shall be deemed terminated upon the date of receipt of such notification.
§ 232.875
Maximum claim period.
Notice of intention to file claim on a form prescribed by the Commissioner shall be filed within 45 days after the lender becomes eligible for the benefits of the loan insurance, or within such later time as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing.
§ 232.880
Items to be delivered on submitting claim.
Within 30 days after the filing of the notice of intention to file claim, or within such further period as may be agreed upon by the Commission in writing, the lender shall deliver to the Commissioner:
(a) The fiscal data pertaining to the loan transactions;
(b) Receipts covering all disbursements as required by the fiscal data form;
(c) The original note and any security instrument or instruments which shall be assigned to the Commissioner without recourse or warranty, except that the lender must warrant that no act or omission of the lender has impaired the validity and priority of such security instrument or instruments,
that the security instrument or instruments are prior to all mechanics' and material-men's liens filed of record subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments regardless of whether such liens attached prior to such recording date, and prior to all liens and encumbrances which may have attached or defects which may have arisen subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments, except such liens or other matters as may be approved by the Commissioner, that the amount stated in the instrument of assignment is actually due and owing under the security instrument or instruments, that there are no offsets or counterclaims thereto, and that the lender has a good right to assign such note and security instrument or instruments;
(d) The assignment to the Commissioner of all rights and interests arising under the note and security instrument or instruments so in default and all claims of the lender against the borrower or others arising out of the loan transaction;
(e) All policies of title or other insurance or surety bonds, or other guarantees and any and all claims thereunder; including evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that the original title coverage has been extended to include the assignment of the note and security instrument or instruments to the Commissioner;
(f) All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers and accounts relating to the loan transaction;
(g) Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require;
(h) The following cash items, held in connection with the loan insured under this subpart, shall either be retained by the lender or delivered to the Commissioner in accordance with instructions to be issued by the Commissioner at the time the insurance claim is filed.
(1) Any cash held by the lender or its agents or to which it is entitled including deposits made for the account of the borrower and which have not been applied in reduction of the principal of the loan indebtedness.
(2) All funds held by the lender for the account of the borrower received pursuant to any other agreement.
§ 232.885
Insurance benefits.
(a)
Method of payment.
Payment of an insurance claim shall be made in cash, in debentures, or in a combination of both, as determined by the Commissioner either at, or prior to, the time of payment.
(b)
Amount of payment.
Upon an acceptable assignment of the note and security instrument, the Commissioner shall pay the claim of the lender in an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loan as of the date of default determined as follows:
(1) By adding the following items:
(i) Any accrued interest due as of the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.
(ii) Any advances approved by the Commissioner made previously by the lender under the provisions of the note or security instrument or instruments.
(iii) Reimbursement for such reasonable collection costs, court costs, and attorney's fees as may be approved by the Commissioner.
(iv) Any loan insurance premiums paid after default.
(v) If payment is made in cash, an amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned thereon, as of the date such cash payment is made, except when the lender fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of §§ 232.850, 232.875, and 232.880, within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended.
(2) By deducting from the total of the items computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section the following items:
(i) Any amount received by the lender on account of the loan after the date of default.
(ii) Any net income received by the lender from the property covered by the note or security instrument and not applied to prior debts held by that lender.
(iii) The sum of the cash items retained by the lender pursuant to § 232.880(h)(i)(ii).
[39 FR 28970, Aug. 12, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 51468, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 232.890
Characteristics of debentures.
Debentures issued in settlement of insurance claims under this subpart shall have the same characteristics and the same requirements for registration and redemption as those issued pursuant to subpart B of this part except that debentures shall bear interest at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment was issued, or as of the date the loan was first endorsed for insurance, whichever rate is higher and shall mature 10 years from the date of issue which date shall be the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.
§ 232.893
Cash adjustment.
Any difference of less than $50 between the amount of debentures to be issued to the lender and the total amount of the lender's claim, as approved by the Commissioner, may be adjusted by the issuance of a check in payment thereof.
[59 FR 49816, Sept. 30, 1994]

# Assignments
§ 232.895
Assignment of insured loans.
(a) An insured loan may be transferred only to a transferee who is a lender approved by the Commissioner. Upon such transfer and the assumption by the transferee of all obligations under the contract of insurance the transferor shall be released from its obligations under the contract of insurance.
(b) The contract of insurance shall terminate with respect to loans described in paragraph (a) of this section upon the happening of either of the following events:
(1) The transfer or pledge of the insured loan to any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, other than an approved lender.
(2) The disposal by a lender of any partial interest in the insured loan to other than an approved lender.

# Extension of Time
§ 232.897
Actions to be taken by lender.
With respect to any action required of the lender within a period of time prescribed by this subpart, the Commissioner may extend such period.

# Subpart E—Insurance of Mortgages Covering Existing Projects

# Source:
53 FR 33735, Aug. 31, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 232.901
Mortgages covering existing projects are eligible for insurance.
A mortgage executed in connection with the purchase or refinancing of an existing project without substantial rehabilitation may be insured under this subpart pursuant to section 223(f) of the Act. A mortgage insured pursuant to this subpart shall meet all other requirements of this part except as expressly modified by this subpart.
[59 FR 61228, Nov. 29, 1994]
§ 232.902
Eligible project.
Existing projects (with such repairs and improvements as are determined by the Commissioner to be necessary) are eligible for insurance under this subpart. The project must not require substantial rehabilitation and three years must have elapsed from the date of completion of construction or substantial rehabilitation of the project, or from the beginning of occupancy, whichever is later, to the date of application for insurance. In addition, the project must have attained sustaining occupancy (occupancy that produces income sufficient to pay operating expenses, annual debt service and reserve fund for replacement requirements) as determined by the Commissioner, before endorsement of the project for insurance; alternatively, the borrower must provide an operating deficit fund at the time of endorsement for insurance, in an amount, and under an agreement, approved by the Commissioner.
[59 FR 61228, Nov. 29, 1994]
§ 232.903
Maximum mortgage limitations.
Notwithstanding the maximum mortgage limitations set forth in 24 CFR 200.15, a mortgage within the limits set forth in this section shall be eligible for insurance under this subpart.
(a)
Value limit.
The mortgage shall involve a principal obligation of not in excess of eighty-five percent (85%) for a profit motivated borrower (ninety percent (90%) for a private nonprofit borrower) of the Commissioner's estimate of the value of the project, including major movable equipment to be used in its operation and any repairs and improvements. The Commissioner's estimate of value shall result from consideration of:
(1) Estimated market value of the Project by capitalization,
(2) Estimated market value of the Project by direct sales comparison, and
(3) Total estimated replacement cost of the Project.
In the event the mortgage is secured by a leasehold estate rather than a fee simple estate, the value of the property described in the mortgage shall be the value of the leasehold estate (as determined by the Commissioner) which shall in all cases be less than the value of the property in fee simple.
(b)
Debt service limit.
The insured mortgage shall involve a principal obligation not in excess of the amount that could be amortized by eighty-five percent (85%) for a profit motivated borrower (ninety percent (90%) for a private nonprofit borrower) of the net projected project income available for payment of debt service. Net projected Project income available for debt service shall be determined by reducing the Commissioner's estimated gross income for the Project by a vacancy and collection loss factor and by the cost of all estimated operating expenses, including deposits to the reserve for replacements and taxes.
(c)
Project to be refinanced—additional limit.
(1) In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if the Project is to be refinanced by the insured mortgage, the maximum mortgage amount must not exceed the cost to refinance the existing indebtedness. For the purposes of this requirement:
(i) The Project shall not have changed ownership subsequent to the date of application, or
(ii) The Project shall have been sold to a purchaser who has an identity of interest with the seller (as defined by the Commissioner).
(2) The cost to refinance the existing indebtedness will consist of the following items, the eligibility and amounts of which must be determined by the Commissioner:
(i) The amount required to pay off the existing indebtedness;
(ii) The amount of the initial deposit for the reserve fund for replacements;
(iii) Reasonable and customary legal, organization, title, and recording expenses, including mortgagee fees under § 200.41;
(iv) The estimated repair costs, if any;
(v) Architect's and engineer's fees, municipal inspection fees, and any other required professional or inspection fees; and
(vi) The amount of any long-term debt service reserve account required by the Commissioner pursuant to § 232.11.
(d)
Project to be acquired—additional limit.
In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if the project is to be acquired by the borrower and the purchase price is to be financed with the insured mortgage, the maximum amount must not exceed 85 percent for a profit-motivated borrower and 90 percent for a private nonprofit borrower of the cost of acquisition as determined by the Commissioner. The cost of acquisition shall consist of the following items, to the extent that each item (except for paragraph (d)(1) of this section) is paid by the purchaser separately from the purchase price. The eligibility and amounts of these items must be determined in accordance with standards established by the Commissioner.
(1) Purchase price is indicated in the purchase agreement;
(2) An amount for the initial deposit to the reserve fund for replacements;
(3) Reasonable and customary legal, organizational, title, and recording expenses, including mortgagee fees under § 200.41;
(4) The estimated repair cost, if any;
(5) Architect's and engineer's fees, municipal inspection fees, and any other required professional or inspection fees; and
(6) The amount of any long-term debt service reserve account required by the Commissioner pursuant to § 232.11.
[53 FR 33735, Aug. 31, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 61228, Nov. 29, 1994; 77 FR 55136, Sept. 7, 2012]
§ 232.904
Term of the mortgage.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 232.27, a mortgage insured under this subpart must have a maturity satisfactory to the Commissioner which is not less than 10 years, nor more than the lesser of 35 years or 75 percent of the estimated remaining economic life of the physical improvements. The term of the mortgage will begin on the first day of the second month following the date of endorsement of the mortgage for insurance.
§ 232.905
Labor standards and prevailing wage requirements.
The provisions of §§ 232.70-232.74 of this part shall not apply to mortgages insured under commitments issued in accordance with this subpart.
§ 232.906
Processing of applications and required fees.
(a)
Processing of applications.
The local HUD Office will determine whether participation in a preapplication conference is required as a condition to submission of an initial application for either a conditional or firm commitment. After the preapplication conference an application for a conditional or firm commitment for insurance of a mortgage on a project shall be submitted by the sponsor and an approved mortgagee. Such application shall be submitted to the local HUD Office on a HUD approved form. An application may, at the option of the applicant, be submitted for a firm commitment omitting the conditional commitment stage. No application shall be considered unless accompanied by all exhibits required by the form and program handbooks. An application may be made for a commitment which provides for the insurance of the mortgage upon completion of any improvements or for a commitment which provides, in accordance with standards established by the Commissioner, for the completing of specified repairs and improvements after endorsement.
(b)
Application fee—conditional commitment.
An application-commitment fee of $3 per thousand dollars of the requested mortgage amount shall accompany an application for conditional commitment.
(c)
Application fee—firm commitment.
An application for firm commitment shall be accompanied by an application-commitment fee of $5 per thousand dollars of the requested mortgage amount to be insured less any amount previously received for a conditional commitment.
(d)
Inspection fee.
Where an application provides for the completion of repairs, replacements and/or improvements (repairs), the Commissioner will charge an inspection fee equal to one percent (1%) of the cost of the repairs. However, where the Commissioner determines the cost of repairs is minimal, the Commissioner may establish a minimum inspection fee that exceeds one percent of the cost of repairs and can periodically increase or decrease this minimum fee.
(e)
Cross-reference.
The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) (Fee on increases), (g) (Reopening of expired commitments), (h) (Transfer fee), (i) (Refund of fees), and (j) (Fees not required) of § 200.40 of this chapter apply to applications submitted under subpart E of this part.
[61 FR 14416, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart F—Eligible Operators and Facilities and Restrictions on Fund Distributions

# Source:
77 FR 55137, Sept. 7, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 232.1001
Scope.
This subpart establishes requirements applicable to the operators of healthcare facilities and the facilities under this part.
§ 232.1003
Eligible operator.
Operator shall be a single asset entity acceptable to the Commissioner, and shall possess the powers necessary and
incidental to operating the healthcare facility, except that the Commissioner may approve a non-single asset entity under such circumstances, terms, and conditions determined and specified as acceptable to the Commissioner. A master tenant under a master lease approved by the Commissioner who has subleased the healthcare facility to an operator is not an Operator.
§ 232.1005
Treatment of project operating accounts.
All accounts deriving from the operation of the property, including operator accounts and including all funds received from any source or derived from the operation of the facility, are project assets subject to control under the insured mortgage loan's transactional documents, including, without limitation, the operator's regulatory agreement. Except as otherwise permitted or approved by HUD, funds generated by the operation of the healthcare facility shall be deposited into a federally insured bank account, provided that an account held in an institution acceptable to Ginnie Mae may have a balance that exceeds the amount to which such insurance is limited. Any of the owner's project-related funds shall be deposited into a federally insured bank account in the name of the borrower provided that an account held in an institution acceptable to Ginnie Mae may have a balance that exceeds the amount to which such insurance is limited.
§ 232.1007
Operating expenses.
Goods and services purchased or acquired in connection with the project shall be reasonable and necessary for the operation or maintenance of the project, and the costs of such goods and services incurred by the borrower or operator shall not exceed amounts normally paid for such goods or services in the area where the services are rendered or the goods are furnished, except as otherwise permitted or approved by HUD.
§ 232.1009
Financial reports.
(a) The borrower must provide HUD and lender an audited annual financial report based on an examination of its books and records, in such form and substance required by HUD in accordance with 24 CFR 5.801 and 24 CFR 200.36.
(b) Operators must submit financial statements quarterly within 60 calendar days of the date of the end of each fiscal quarter, setting forth both quarterly and fiscal year-to-date information, except that the final fiscal year end quarter must be submitted to HUD within 90 calendar days of the end of the quarter, in accordance with 24 CFR 5.801(c)(4), or within such additional time as may be provided by the Commissioner for good cause shown. HUD may direct that such forms be submitted to the lender or another third party in addition to or in lieu of submission to HUD.
[79 FR 55362, Sept. 16, 2014]
§ 232.1011
Management agents.
(a) An operator or borrower may, with the prior written approval of HUD, execute a management agent agreement setting forth the duties and procedures for matters related to the management of the project. The management agent, each initial management agent agreement with that agent, and any amendments to such management agent agreements deemed material by the Commissioner must be acceptable to HUD and approved in writing by HUD.
(b) An operator or borrower may not enter into any agreement that provides for a management agent to have rights to or claims on funds owed to the operator.
§ 232.1013
Restrictions on deposit, withdrawal, and distribution of funds, and repayment of advances.
(a)
Deposit of funds.
An operator must deposit all revenue the operator receives directly or indirectly in connection with the operation of the healthcare facility in an account with a financial institution whose deposits are insured by an agency of the Federal Government,
provided
that an account held in an institution acceptable to Ginnie Mae may have a balance that exceeds the amount to which such insurance is limited.
(b)
Withdrawal of funds.
If a quarterly/year-to-date financial statement demonstrates negative working capital
as defined by HUD, or if the operator fails to timely submit such statement, then until a current quarterly/year-to-date financial statement demonstrates positive working capital or until otherwise authorized by HUD, the operator may not distribute, advance, or otherwise use funds attributable to that facility for any purpose other than operating that facility.
§ 232.1015
Prompt notification to HUD and mortgagee of circumstances placing the value of the security at risk.
(a) HUD and the mortgagee shall be informed of any notification of any failure to comply with governmental requirements including the following:
(1) The licensed operator of a project shall promptly provide HUD and the mortgagee with a copy of any notification that has placed the licensure, a provider funding source, and/or the ability to admit new residents at risk, and any responses to those notices, provided that HUD may determine certain information to be exempt from this requirement based upon severity level. With respect to the requirements of this section:
(i) The operator shall deliver to HUD and the mortgagee electronically, within 2 business days after the date of receipt, unless a longer time period is approved by HUD, copies of any and all notices, reports, surveys, and other correspondence (regardless of form) received by the operator from any governmental authority that includes any statement, finding, or assertion that:
(A) The operator or the project is or may be in violation of (or default under) any of the permits and approvals or any governmental requirements applicable to the operation of the facility;
(B) Any of the permits and approvals is to be terminated, limited in any way, or not renewed;
(C) Any civil money penalty (other than a de minimis amount) is being imposed with respect to the facility; or
(D) The operator or the project is subject to any governmental investigation or inquiry involving fraud.
(ii) The operator shall also deliver to HUD and the mortgagee, simultaneously with delivery to any governmental authority, any and all responses given by or on behalf of the operator to any of the foregoing and shall provide to HUD and the mortgagee, promptly upon request, such additional information relating to any of the foregoing as HUD or the mortgagee may request. The receipt by HUD and/or the mortgagee of notices, reports, surveys, correspondence, and other information shall not in any way impose any obligation or liability on HUD, the mortgagee, or their respective agents, representatives, or designees to take (or refrain from taking) any action; and HUD, the mortgagee, and their respective agents, representatives, and designees shall have no liability for any failure to act thereon or as a result thereof.
(2) The operator shall provide additional and ongoing information as requested by the borrower, mortgagee, or HUD pertaining to matters related to that risk. Controlling documents between or among any of the parties may provide further requirements with respect to such notification and communication.
(b) This section is applicable to all operators as of October 9, 2012.
Pt. 234

# PART 234—CONDOMINIUM OWNERSHIP MORTGAGE INSURANCE

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements—Individually Owned Units
Sec.
234.1
Cross-reference.
234.2
Savings clause.
234.3
Definitions.
234.17
Mortgagor and mortgagee requirements for maintaining flood insurance coverage.
234.26
Project requirements.
234.54
Eligibility of assigned mortgages and mortgages covering acquired property.
234.63
Location of property.
234.65
Nature of title.
234.66
Free assumability; exceptions.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Individually Owned Units
234.251
Definitions.
234.255
Cross-reference.
234.256
Substitute mortgagors.
234.259
Claim procedure—graduated payment mortgages.
234.260
Assignment of mortgage and certificate by mortgagee.
234.262
Exception to deed in lieu of foreclosure.
234.265
Contents of deed and supporting documents.
234.270
Condition of the multifamily structure.
234.273
Assessment of taxes.
234.274
Certificate of tax assessment.
234.275
Certificate or statement of condition.
234.280
Cancellation of hazard insurance.
234.285
Waived title objections.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Projects—Conversion Individual Sales Units
234.501
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Projects
234.751
Cross-reference.

# Subpart E—Servicing Responsibilities—Individually Owned Units
234.800
Cross-reference.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b and 1715y; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24628, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements—Individually Owned Units

# Source:
61 FR 60161, Nov. 26, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 234.1
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions of subpart A of part 203 of this chapter concerning eligibility requirements of mortgages covering one- to four-family dwellings under section 203 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709) apply to mortgages on individually owned units insured under section 234 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715y), except the following provisions:
Sec.
203.12 Mortgage insurance on proposed or new construction.
203.14 Builders' warranty.
203.18a Solar energy system.
203.18c One-time or up-front mortgage insurance premium excluded from limitations on maximum mortgage amounts.
203.38 Location of dwelling.
203.42 Rental properties.
203.43c Eligibility of mortgages involving a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing development.
203.43d Eligibility of mortgages in certain communities.
203.43f Eligibility of mortgages covering manufactured homes.
203.43g Eligibility of mortgages in certain communities.
203.43h Eligibility of mortgages on Indian land insured pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act.
203.43i Eligibility of mortgages on Hawaiian Home Lands insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act.
203.43j Eligibility of mortgages on Allegany Reservation of Seneca Nation of Indians.
203.50 Eligibility of rehabilitation loans.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, all references in part 203 of this chapter to section 203 of the Act shall be construed to refer to section 234 of the Act.
[61 FR 60161, Nov. 26, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 56111, Oct. 15, 1999]
§ 234.2
Savings clause.
HUD's regulations at § 203.43b of this chapter govern approval of real estate consisting of a one-family unit in a multifamily project, and an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities which serve the project, except where the project has a blanket mortgage insured under section 234(d) of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1715y(d) (section 234(d)). Where the project has a blanket mortgage insured by HUD under section 234(d), this 24 CFR part 234 applies to the approval of a one-family unit in such project.
[84 FR 41877, Aug. 15, 2019]
§ 234.3
Definitions.
The terms
Act, Beginning of amortization, Commissioner, FHA, Insured Mortgage, Mortgage, Mortgagee, Mortgagor,
and
State,
as used in this part, are defined in § 203.251 of this chapter. The following terms, as used in this part, are defined as follows:
Bona fide tenants' organization
means an association of tenants formed by the tenants to promote their interests in a particular project, with membership in the association open to each tenant, and all requirements of the association applying equally to every tenant.
Common areas and facilities
means those areas of the project and of the
property upon which it is located that are for the use and enjoyment of the owners of family units located in the project. The areas may include the land, roofs, main walls, elevators, staircases, lobbies, halls, parking space and community and commercial facilities.
Conversion
means the date on which all documents necessary to create a condominium under state law (and under local law, where applicable) have been recorded, except that in the case of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
conversion
is defined as the date on which the legal documents (which must be in compliance with applicable law) to create a condominium are presented for inscription (
i.e.,
recordation) to the Commonwealth Office of the Property Registry.
Family unit
means a one-family unit including the undivided interest in the common areas and facilities, and such restricted common areas and facilities as may be designated.
Project
means a structure or structures containing four or more family units.
Project mortgage
means a mortgage which is or has been insured under any of the FHA multifamily housing programs, other than sections 213(a)(1) and 213(a)(2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1715e).
Restricted common areas and facilities
means those areas and facilities restricted to a particular family unit or number of family units.
Tenant
means the occupant(s) named in the lease or rental agreement of a housing unit in a project as of the date the condominium conversion documents are properly filed for the project, or as of the date on which the occupants are notified by management of intent to convert the project to a condominium, whichever is earlier.
[61 FR 60161, Nov. 26, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 6597, Feb. 7, 2003]
§ 234.17
Mortgagor and mortgagee requirements for maintaining flood insurance coverage.
The maintenance of flood insurance coverage on the project by the condominium association will satisfy the requirements of § 203.16a of this chapter if such coverage protects the interest of the mortgagor in the family unit. For this purpose, “the interest of the mortgagor” is defined as insurance coverage equal to the replacement cost of the project less land costs.
§ 234.26
Project requirements.
No mortgage shall be eligible for insurance unless the following requirements are met:
(a)
Location of family unit.
The family unit shall be located in a project that the Commissioner determines to be acceptable.
(b)
Plan of condominium ownership.
The project in which the unit is located shall have been committed to a plan of condominium ownership by a deed, or other recorded instrument, that is acceptable to the Commissioner. In the case of condominium documents in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commissioner will accept documents presented for inscription (recordation) to the Commonwealth Office of the Property Registry so long as the mortgagor obtains a title insurance policy that reflects the condominium regime.
(c)
Releases.
The family unit shall have been released from any mortgage covering the project or any part of the project.
(d)
Certificate by mortgagee.
The mortgagee shall certify that:
(1) The deed of the family unit and the deed or other recorded instrument committing the project to a plan of condominium ownership must comply with legal requirements of the jurisdiction. In the case of condominium documents in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Department will accept documents presented for inscription (recordation) to the Commonwealth Office of Property Registry for certification purposes so long as the mortgagor obtains a title insurance policy that reflects the condominium regime.
(2) The mortgagor has good marketable title to the family unit, subject only to a mortgage that is a valid first lien on the family unit.
(3) The family unit is assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining only to that unit.
(e)
Conditions and provisions.
(1) The Commissioner may require such conditions and provisions as the Commissioner determines are necessary for the
protection of consumers and the public interest.
(2) An application for mortgage insurance of a unit will not be approved if approval would result in less than 80 percent of the FHA-insured mortgages covering units in the project being occupied by mortgagors or co-mortgagors as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 203.18 of this chapter).
(3) In addition to the other requirements of this section, in order for a project to be acceptable to the Secretary, at least 51 percent of all family units (including units not covered by FHA-insured mortgages) must be occupied by the owners as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 203.18 of this chapter), or must have been sold to owners who intend to meet this occupancy requirement.
(f)
Limitations on conversion of rental housing to condominium use.
With respect to a family unit in any project that was converted from rental housing, no insurance will be provided under this section unless:
(1) The conversion occurred more than one year before the application for insurance; or
(2) The mortgagor or comortgagor was a tenant of a unit in the rental housing project converted to condominium use; or
(3) The conversion of the property is sponsored by a bona fide tenants' organization representing a majority of the households in the project.
(g)
Projects covered by an insured or Secretary-held mortgage.
In addition to the requirements contained in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, projects which are covered by an FHA-insured project mortgage, or by a mortgage held by the Secretary, must be in compliance with a conversion plan approved by the Commissioner. The conversion plan shall provide for:
(1) The termination by payment in full of the mortgage or by voluntary termination of the insurance contract covering any HUD/FHA-insured or Secretary-held mortgage on the project, unless the Commissioner determines that the Commissioner's interests, and those of the individuals purchasing the family units, are best served by not requiring the termination of the insurance or payment in full of the mortgage.
(2) On release of a family unit from the project mortgage, payment shall be made on the outstanding balance of the project mortgage in an amount equal to the share of the balance determined by HUD to be attributable to the family unit.
(3) The project mortgagee shall certify that, notwithstanding any provisions of the mortgage covering prepayment, no charge is contemplated or has been collected for prepayment in full of the project mortgage.
(h)
Projects not covered by an insured or Secretary-held mortgage.
In addition to the requirements contained in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, projects which are not covered by an insured project mortgage or by a Secretary-held mortgage and which have not been approved by the Department of Veterans Affairs for its guaranty, insurance, or direct loan programs shall meet the requirements of this paragraph. Except with the approval of the Commissioner for the purpose of constructing or converting the project in phases or stages, any special right of the declarant (as declarant and not as a unit owner) to do any or all of the following must have expired or must have been waived in a recorded instrument:
(1) Add land or units to the condominium;
(2) Convert common elements into additional units or limited common elements;
(3) Withdraw land from the condominium;
(4) Use easements through the common elements for the purpose of making improvements within the condominium or within any adjacent land; or
(5) Convert a unit into two or more units, common elements, or into two or more units and common elements.
(i) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, a loan on a single unit in an unapproved condominium project (spot loan) may qualify for mortgage insurance under this part.
(1) The project must meet the following criteria:
(i) All units, common elements, and facilities—including those that are part of any master association—must have been completed, and the project cannot be subject to additional phasing or annexation. The project must provide for undivided ownership of common areas by unit owners;
(ii) Control of the owners' association must have been turned over to the unit purchasers, and the unit purchasers must have been in control for at least one year;
(iii) At least 90 percent of the total units in the project must have been conveyed to the unit purchasers, and at least 51 percent of the total units in the project must have been conveyed to purchasers who are occupying the units as their principal residences or second homes. No single entity (the same individual, investor group, partnership, or corporation) may own more than 10 percent of the total units in the project;
(iv) The units in the project must be owned in fee simple or be an eligible leasehold interest, as described in § 234.65, and the unit owners must have sole ownership interest in, and right to the use of, the project's facilities, common elements, and limited common elements including parking, recreational facilities, etc.;
(v) The project must be covered by hazard, flood, and liability insurance acceptable to the Commissioner;
(vi) For projects with more than 30 units, no more than 10 percent of the total units in the project may be encumbered by FHA-insured mortgages. (If endorsement would result in more than 10 percent of the units in such a project being encumbered by FHA-insured mortgages, the condominium project must be approved under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.) For projects with between 5 and 30 units inclusive, no more than 20 percent of the total units may be encumbered by FHA-insured mortgages. For projects with four units, only one unit may be encumbered by an FHA-insured mortgage under the spot loan procedure of this paragraph (i); and
(vii) The assumability provisions of § 234.66 must be satisfied.
(2) Lenders must perform an underwriting analysis and certify that a project satisfies the eligibility criteria for a spot loan in a condominium project that has not been approved by FHA. Lenders may use information from the appraiser, the owners' association, the management company, the real estate broker, and the project developer, but the lender must ensure the accuracy of the information obtained from these sources.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0513)
[61 FR 60161, Nov. 26, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 16689, Apr. 4, 2007]
§ 234.54
Eligibility of assigned mortgages and mortgages covering acquired property.
The Commissioner may insure under this part, without regard to any limitation upon eligibility contained in this subpart (except that the property must be located in a condominium project approved under § 234.26), any mortgage assigned to the Commissioner in connection with payment under a contract of mortgage insurance, or executed in connection with a sale by the Commissioner of any property acquired in the settlement of an insurance claim under any section or title of the Act.
§ 234.63
Location of property.
The mortgage, to be eligible for insurance, shall be on property located in a State, as defined in § 203.251 of this chapter, and not located on “Hawaiian home lands,” as that term is defined in section 247(d)(2) of the Act.
§ 234.65
Nature of title.
A mortgage, to be eligible for insurance, shall be on a fee interest in, or on a leasehold interest in, a one-family unit in a project including an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities, and such restricted common areas and facilities as may be designated. To be eligible, a leasehold interest shall be under a lease for not less than 99 years which is renewable, or under a lease having a period of not less than 10 years to run beyond the maturity date of the mortgage.
§ 234.66
Free assumability; exceptions.
For purposes of HUD's policy of free assumability with no restrictions, as
provided in § 203.41 of this chapter, the definition of
Legal restrictions on conveyance
in § 203.41(a)(3) of this chapter does not include rights of first refusal held by a condominium association for a project approved by the Secretary under this subpart prior to September 10, 1993.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations—Individually Owned Units
§ 234.251
Definitions.
The definitions in § 203.251 of this chapter apply to this subpart.
[61 FR 60163, Nov. 26, 1996]
§ 234.255
Cross-reference.
(a)
Provisions.
All of the provisions of §§ 203.251 through 203.436 of this chapter (part 203, subpart B) covering mortgages insured under section 203 of the National Housing Act shall apply to mortgages insured under section 234(c) of the National Housing Act except the following provisions:
Sec.
203.258 Substitute mortgagors.
203.259a Scope.
203.280 One-time MIP.
203.281 Calculation of one-time MIP.
203.282 Mortgagee's late charge and interest.
203.283 Refund of one-time MIP.
203.357 Deed in lieu of foreclosure.
203.378 Property condition.
203.379 Adjustment for damage or neglect.
203.380 Certificate of property condition.
203.389 Waived title objections.
203.420 Nature of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
203.421 Allocation of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund income or loss.
203.422 Right and liability under Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
203.423 Distribution of distributive shares.
203.424 Maximum amount of distributive shares.
203.425 Finality of determination.
203.440
et seq.
Insured home improvement loans.
(b)
References.
For the purposes of this subpart, all references in §§ 203.251 through 203.436 of this chapter (part 203, subpart B) to section 203 of the Act, one- to four-family, and the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund, shall be construed to refer to section 234 of the act, one-family unit, and the General Insurance Fund. The term
property
or
each family dwelling unit
as used in §§ 203.251 through 203.436 of this chapter (part 203, subpart B) shall be construed to include “the one-family unit and the undivided interest in the common areas and facilities as may be designated”.
[36 FR 24628, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 41 FR 42949, Sept. 29, 1976; 42 FR 29305, June 8, 1977; 48 FR 28807, June 23, 1983; 55 FR 34814, Aug. 24, 1990]
§ 234.256
Substitute mortgagors.
(a)
Selling mortgagor.
The requirements for the selling mortgagor are set forth in § 203.258(a) of this chapter.
(b)
Purchasing mortgagor.
(1) If the dwelling is a principal or secondary place of residence, the requirements for the purchasing mortgagor are set forth in § 203.258(b)(1) of this chapter.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Applicability—current mortgagor.
Paragraph (b) of this section applies to the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor only if the mortgage executed by the original mortgagor met the conditions of § 203.258(c) of this chapter.
(d)
Applicability—earlier mortgagor.
The occupancy and similar requirements set forth in § 203.258(d) of this chapter apply to mortgages insured under subpart A of this part.
(e)
Direct endorsement.
Requirements for the direct endorsement program are set forth in § 203.258(f) of this chapter.
(f)
Substitute mortgagor
is defined in § 203.258(f) of this chapter.
[55 FR 34814, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 38352, Dec. 9, 1992; 61 FR 60163, Nov. 26, 1996]
§ 234.259
Claim procedure—graduated payment mortgages.
Section 203.436 of this chapter applies to mortgages under this subpart.
[61 FR 60163, Nov. 26, 1996]
§ 234.260
Assignment of mortgage and certificate by mortgagee.
In addition to the requirements of §§ 203.350 through 203.353 incorporated by reference, the mortgagee shall certify as to any changes in the plan of
apartment ownership including the administration of the property. Any changes shall require FHA approval.
[36 FR 24628, Dec. 21, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 29305, June 8, 1977]
§ 234.262
Exception to deed in lieu of foreclosure.
All of the provisions of § 203.357 of this chapter relating to acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure shall apply to mortgages insured under this part only if the mortgagee establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that there are no unpaid assessments owed the Association or Cooperative of Owners.
§ 234.265
Contents of deed and supporting documents.
In addition to the requirements of § 203.367, incorporated by reference, the deed shall comply with the plan of apartment ownership. Any changes therein, including the administration of the property, shall require FHA approval.
§ 234.270
Condition of the multifamily structure.
(a) When a family unit is conveyed or a mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the family unit and the common areas and facilities designated for the particular unit shall be undamaged by fire, flood, earthquake, tornado, or boiler explosion, or, as to mortgages insured on or after January 1, 1977, due to failure of the mortgagee to take action as required by § 203.377. If the property has been damaged, either of the following actions shall be taken:
(1) The property may be repaired prior to its conveyance or prior to the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner.
(2) If the prior approval of the Commissioner is obtained, the damaged property may be conveyed or the mortgage assigned to the Secretary without repairing the damage. In such instances, the Commissioner shall deduct from the insurance benefits either his estimate of the decrease in value of the family unit or the amount of any insurance recovery received by the mortgagee, whichever is the greater.
(b) If the property has been damaged by fire and such property was not covered by fire insurance at the time of the damage, the mortgagee may convey the property or assign the mortgage to the Commissioner without deduction from the insurance benefits for any loss occasioned by such fire if the following conditions are met:
(1) The property shall have been covered by fire insurance at the time the mortgage was insured.
(2) The fire insurance shall have been later cancelled or renewal shall have been refused by the insuring company.
(3) The mortgagee shall have notified the Commissioner within 30 days (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve) of the cancellation of the fire insurance or of the refusal of the insuring company to renew the fire insurance. This notification shall have been accompanied by a certification of the mortgagee that diligent efforts were made, but it was unable to obtain fire insurance coverage at reasonably competitive rates and that it will continue its efforts to obtain adequate fire insurance coverage at competitive rates, including coverage under the FAIR Plan. A
reasonable rate
is a rate not more than 25 percent in excess of the rate or the advisory rate filed or used by the principal rating organization doing business in the state. If the property is located in a state which has no rate or advisory rate as provided in the preceding sentence, the mortgagee shall consult the Director of the local HUD office as to a reasonable rate. When hazard insurance coverage cannot be obtained in an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loan but insurance can be obtained in a reduced amount from a FAIR Plan or another insurance carrier, the Secretary will accept the reduced coverage without reduction of mortgage, insurance benefits, if the rates do not exceed the guidelines stated herein. If coverage in any amount is only available at rates in excess of a reasonable rate as defined herein, the mortgagor may but shall not be required to purchase such coverage. If coverage is purchased, the amount of any claim for insurance benefits under this part shall be reduced by the amount of any recovery of hazard insurance benefits by the mortgagee.
(c) The provisions in paragraph (b) of this section shall be applicable with respect to the insurance of all mortgages whether insured prior to May 8, 1968, or insured on or after such date.
(d) The mortgagee shall not be liable for damage to the property by waste in connection with mortgage insurance claims paid on or after July 2, 1968. However, the mortgagee shall be responsible for damage to or destruction of security properties on which the loans are in default and which properties are vacant or abandoned due to the mortgagee's failure to take reasonable action to inspect, protect and preserve such properties as required by § 203.377, as to all mortgages insured on or after June 8, 1977, but such responsibility shall not exceed the amount of its insurance claim as to a particular property.
[36 FR 24628, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 29305, June 8, 1977]
§ 234.273
Assessment of taxes.
When a family unit is conveyed to the Commissioner or a mortgage is assigned to the Commissioner, the unit shall be assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining only to that unit.
§ 234.274
Certificate of tax assessment.
The mortgagee shall certify, as of the date of filing for record of the deed or assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner, that the family unit is assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining only to that unit.
§ 234.275
Certificate or statement of condition.
The mortgagee shall either certify that as of the date of the filing of deed for record, or assignment of the mortgage to the Secretary, the property was (a) undamaged by fire, flood, earthquake, tornado or boiler explosion, and (b) as to mortgages insured or for which commitments to insure are issued on or after June 8, 1977, undamaged due to failure of the mortgagee to take action as required by § 203.377, or its claim shall be accompanied by a statement describing any such damage that may still exist together with a copy of the Secretary's authorization to convey the property in damaged condition. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the mortgagee's certificate or its statement as to damage shall be accepted by the Secretary as establishing the condition of the family unit and the common areas and facilities designated for the particular unit.
[42 FR 29305, June 8, 1977]
§ 234.280
Cancellation of hazard insurance.
The provisions of § 203.382 incorporated by reference shall apply to hazard insurance policies carried solely for the family unit.
§ 234.285
Waived title objections.
The Commissioner shall not object to title by reason of the following matters:
(a) Violations of a restriction based on race, color or creed, even where such restriction provides for a penalty of reversion or forfeiture of title or a lien for liquidated damage.
(b) Easements for public utilities along one or more of the property lines, provided the exercise of the rights thereunder do not interfere with any of the buildings or improvements located on the subject property.
(c) Encroachment on the subject property by improvements on adjoining property, provided such encroachments do not interfere with the use of any improvements on the subject property.
(d) Variations between the length of the subject property lines as shown on the application for insurance and as shown by the record or possession lines, provided such variations do not interfere with the use of any of the improvements on the subject property.
(e) Customary building or use restrictions for breach of which there is no reversion and which have not been violated to a material extent.
(f) Federal tax liens and rights of redemption arising therefrom if the following conditions are observed. If the mortgagee acquires the property by foreclosure the mortgagee shall give notice to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the foreclosure action. The Commissioner will not object to an outstanding right of redemption in IRS if: (1) The Federal tax lien was perfected subsequent to the date of the
mortgage lien, and (2) the mortgagee has bid an amount sufficient to make the mortgagee whole if the property is in fact redeemed by the IRS.
[36 FR 24628, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 29305, June 8, 1977]

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Projects—Conversion Individual Sales Units
§ 234.501
Eligibility requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to blanket mortgages on condominium projects insured under section 234 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715y), as amended.
[61 FR 14406, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Projects
§ 234.751
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions, except § 207.258(b) of subpart B of this chapter, covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act shall apply to mortgages insured under section 234(d) of such Act.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the National Housing Act shall be construed to refer to section 234(d) of the act.
[36 FR 24628, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 50 FR 38787, Sept. 25, 1985]

# Subpart E—Servicing Responsibilities—Individually Owned Units
§ 234.800
Cross-reference.
All of the provisions of subpart C, part 203 of this chapter covering mortgages insured under section 203 of the National Housing Act apply to mortgages insured under section 234(c) of the National Housing Act.
[42 FR 29306, June 8, 1977]
Pt. 236

# PART 236—MORTGAGE INSURANCE AND INTEREST REDUCTION PAYMENT FOR RENTAL PROJECTS
Subparts A-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Audits
236.901
Audit.

# Subpart F—Uniform Relocation Assistance
236.1001
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715z-1, and 1735d; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24643, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Audits
§ 236.901
Audit.
Where a State or local government receives interest reduction payments under section 236(b) of the National Housing Act or is the mortgagor of a mortgage insured or held by the Commissioner under this part, it shall conduct audits in accordance with HUD audit requirements at 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
[58 FR 37813, July 13, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 75936]

# Subpart F—Uniform Relocation Assistance
§ 236.1001
Displacement, relocation, and acquisition.
(a)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, mortgagors shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part.
(b)
Temporary relocation.
The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily to permit rehabilitation or other work for the assisted project. Such tenants must be provided:
(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing, any increase in monthly rent/utility costs, and any incidental expenses.
(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of:
(i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation;
(ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period;
(iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the repairs; and
(iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A “displaced person” (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201-4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A “displaced person” shall be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-19), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas.
(d)
Real property acquisition requirements.
The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
(e)
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the mortgagor's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or with the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the mortgagor. A person who is dissatisfied with the mortgagor's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of the determination to the HUD Field Office.
(f)
Responsibility of mortgagor.
(1) The mortgagor shall certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section. The mortgagor shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the mortgagor to comply with these provisions.
(2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs may also be paid for with funds available from other sources.
(3) The mortgagor shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section. The mortgagor shall maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons.
(g)
Definition of displaced person.
(1) For purposes of this section, the term
displaced person
means any person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term “displaced person” includes, but may not be limited to:
(i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after the mortgagor executes the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the amount approved by HUD;
(ii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or
(B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or
(iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either:
(A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or
(B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or
(iv) Any person, including a person who moves before the mortgagor's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition, if the mortgagor or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition for the assisted project.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
(i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance;
(ii) The person moved into the property after the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition and, before signing a lease or commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a “displaced person” (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project;
(iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or
(iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project;
(3) The mortgagor may request, at any time, HUD's determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section.
(h)
Definition of initiation of negotiations.
For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition of the real property, the term
initiation of negotiations
means the mortgagor's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition.
(Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506-0121)
[59 FR 29331, June 6, 1994]
Pt. 241

# PART 241—SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCING FOR INSURED PROJECT MORTGAGES

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
Sec.
241.1
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
241.251
Cross-reference.
241.260
Definitions.
241.261
Payment of insurance benefits.
241.265
Insurance of property against flood.
241.270
Refund upon termination of insurance.
241.275
No vested right in fund.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Supplemental Loans To Finance Purchase and Installation of Energy Conserving Improvements, Solar Energy Systems, and Individual Utility Meters in Multifamily Projects Without a HUD-Insured or HUD-Held Mortgage
241.500
Definitions.

# Fees and Charges
241.505
Processing of applications and required fees.
241.510
Commitments.
241.515
Inspection fee.
241.520
Fees on increases.
241.525
Refund of fees.
241.530
Maximum fees and charges by lender.

# Eligible Security Instruments
241.530a
Note and security form.
241.535
Loan multiples—minimum principal.
241.540
Method of loan payment and amortization period.
241.545
Covenant against liens.
241.550
Accumulation of next premium.
241.555
Security instrument and lien.
241.560
Agreed interest rate.
241.565
Maximum loan amount.
241.570
Insurance endorsement.
241.580
Application of payments.
241.585
Prepayment privilege and prepayment charge.
241.586
Minimum principal loan amount.

# Property Requirements
241.590
Eligibility of property.

# Title
241.595
Eligibility of title.
241.600
Title evidence.

# Form of Contract
241.605
Contract requirements.
241.610
Assurance of completion.
241.615
Certification of cost requirements.

# Eligible Borrowers
241.625
Eligible borrowers.
241.626
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers.

# Special Requirements
241.630
Maximum insurance against loss.
241.635
Regulatory agreement.
241.640
Employment discrimination prohibited.
241.645
Labor standards and prevailing wage requirements.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Multifamily Projects Without a HUD-Insured or HUD-Held Mortgage
241.800
Definitions.

# Premiums
241.805
Insurance premiums.
241.805a
Mortgagee's late charge.
241.815
Termination of insurance.
241.825
Pro rata refund of insurance premium.

# Rights and Duties of Lender Under the Contract of Insurance
241.830
Definition of default.
241.840
Date of default.
241.850
Notice of default.
241.860
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
241.865
Election by the lender.
241.875
Maximum claim period.
241.880
Items to be delivered on submitting claim.
241.885
Insurance benefits.
241.890
Characteristics of debentures.
241.893
Cash adjustment.

# Assignments
241.895
Assignment of insured loans.

# Extension of Time
241.897
Actions to be taken by lender.

# Rights in Housing Fund
241.900
No vested right in fund.
241.905
Effect of amendments.

# Subpart E—Insurance for Equity Loans and Acquisition Loans—Eligibility Requirements
241.1000
Purpose and scope.
241.1005
Definitions.
241.1010
Feasibility letter.
241.1015
Processing of applications and required fees.
241.1020
Commitments.
241.1025
Refund of fees.
241.1030
Mortgage insurance premiums.
241.1035
Charges by lender.
241.1040
Eligible lenders.
241.1045
Note and security form.
241.1046
Rental assistance.
241.1050
Method of loan payment.
241.1055
Date of first payment to principal.
241.1060
Maturity.
241.1065
Maximum loan amount—loans insured in connection with a plan of action under subpart C of part 248 of this chapter.
241.1067
Maximum loan amount—loans insured in connection with a plan of action
under subpart B of part 248 of this chapter.
241.1068
Renegotiation of an equity loan.
241.1069
Escrow requirements.
241.1070
Agreed interest rate.
241.1080
Eligibility of title.
241.1085
Title evidence.
241.1090
Accumulation of next premium.
241.1095
Application of payments.
241.1100
Prepayment privilege and charges.
241.1105
Late charges.
241.1120
Mortgagee's consent.

# Subpart F—Insurance for Equity Loans and Acquisition Loans—Contract Rights and Obligations
241.1200
Cross-references.
241.1205
Payment of insurance benefits.
241.1210
Condition for payment of insurance benefits.
241.1215
Calculation of insurance benefits.
241.1220
Termination of insurance benefits.
241.1230
No vested right in fund.
241.1235
Cross default.
241.1245
Insurance endorsement.
241.1250
Effect of endorsement.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715z-6, and 1735d; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24653, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
§ 241.1
Eligibility requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to multifamily project mortgages insured under section 241 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-6), as amended.
[61 FR 14407, Apr. 1, 1996]

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
§ 241.251
Cross-reference.
(a)
Projects with a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage.
All of the provisions of subpart B, part 207 of this chapter, covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act, apply with full force and effect to multifamily project and group practice facility mortgages insured under section 241 of the National Housing Act, except the following provisions:
Sec.
207.251 Definitions.
207.253a Termination of insurance contract.
207.259 Insurance benefits.
207.260 Protection of mortgage security.
207.262 No vested right in fund.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, the terms
mortgagor, mortgagee
and
mortgage,
as used in subpart B, part 207 of this chapter shall be construed to mean
borrower, lender
and
supplementary loan (including the security instrument),
respectively.
(c)
Projects without a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage.
The provisions of subpart D of this part shall be applicable to a project without a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage that is receiving a loan insured under subpart A of this part in connection with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner under part 248 of this chapter.
[36 FR 24653, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 8664, Apr. 29, 1972; 48 FR 57129, Dec. 28, 1983; 57 FR 12037, Apr. 8, 1992]
§ 241.260
Definitions.
All of the definitions contained in § 241.1 shall apply to this subpart. In addition, the term
contract of insurance,
as used in this subpart, means the agreement evidenced by endorsement of the credit instrument by the Commissioner or his duly authorized representative, and includes the provisions of this subpart and of the National Housing Act.
§ 241.261
Payment of insurance benefits.
All of the provisions of § 207.259 of this chapter relating to insurance benefits shall apply to multifamily loans insured under this subpart.
[80 FR 51469, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 241.265
Insurance of property against flood.
The mortgaged property shall be insured against flood as stipulated by the Federal Housing Commissioner. The mortgagee shall obtain such coverage in the event the mortgagor fails to do so. If the mortgagee fails to pay any premiums necessary to keep the mortgaged premises so insured, the contract of mortgage insurance may be terminated at the election of the Commissioner.
[39 FR 26023, July 16, 1974]
§ 241.270
Refund upon termination of insurance.
Upon termination of the insurance contract by payment in full or by voluntary termination, the Commissioner shall refund to the lender for the account of the borrower an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the current annual loan insurance premium theretofore paid, which is applicable to the portion of the year subsequent to (a) the date of the prepayment or (b) the effective date of the voluntary termination of the contract of insurance.
§ 241.275
No vested right in fund.
Neither the lender nor the borrower shall have any vested or other right in the insurance fund under which the loan is insured.

# Subpart C—Eligibility Requirements—Supplemental Loans To Finance Purchase and Installation of Energy Conserving Improvements, Solar Energy Systems, and Individual Utility Meters in Multifamily Projects Without a HUD-Insured or HUD-Held Mortgage

# Source:
45 FR 57983, Aug. 29, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 241.500
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions contained in subpart A of this part, incorporated herein by reference, except § 241.1(f), (h) and (i), the following terms, as used in § 241.500
et seq.,
shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Approved lender
means a financial institution or other mortgagee approved by the Commissioner as eligible for insurance under section 2 of the National Housing Act, or a mortgagee approved under section 203(b)(1) of the National Housing Act, or a state housing agency approved pursuant to 24 CFR 883.102.
(b)
Borrower
means the owner of a project held in fee simple or of a leasehold interest which is not now covered by a mortgage insured or held by the Secretary.
(c)
Energy saving loan
means any form of secured obligation used in connection with the purchase and installation of energy conserving improvements.
(d)
Multifamily project
means a project which consists of not less than five dwelling units on one site, each such unit providing complete living facilities including provisions for cooking, eating, and sanitation within the unit and which is not now covered by a mortgage insured or held by the Secretary.

# Fees and Charges
§ 241.505
Processing of applications and required fees.
(a)
Preapplication conference.
The local HUD Office will determine whether participation in a preapplication conference is required as a condition to submission of an initial application for a firm commitment for insurance of an energy savings improvement loan on a project. An application for a firm commitment for insurance must be submitted by both the project sponsor and an approved lender. Applications shall be submitted to the local HUD Office on HUD-approved forms. No application will be considered unless accompanied by all exhibits required by the form and program handbooks.
(b)
Application for firm commitment.
An application for a firm commitment shall be accompanied by the payment of an application fee of $5 per thousand dollars of the requested loan amount to be insured.
(c)
Cross-reference.
The provisions of paragraphs (e) (Inspection fee), (f)(1) (Fee on increases), (g) (Reopening of expired commitments), (i) (Refund of fees), and (j) (Fees not required) of § 200.40 of this chapter apply to applications submitted under subpart E of this part.
[61 FR 14416, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 241.510
Commitments.
(a)
Firm commitment.
The issuance of a firm commitment indicates the Commissioner's approval of the application for insurance and sets forth the terms and conditions upon which the loan will be insured.
(b)
Types of firm commitment.
(1) Where the amount of the loan is $250,000 or more, the firm commitment may provide for the insurance of advances of loan money made during construction or may provide for the insurance of the loan after completion of the improvements.
(2) Where the amount of the loan is less than $250,000, the firm commitment shall provide for insurance of the loan after completion of the improvements.
(c)
Term of commitment.
(1) A firm commitment to insure advances shall be effective for a period of not more than 60 days from the day of issuance.
(2) A firm commitment to insure upon completion shall be effective for a designated term within which the borrower is required to begin construction, and if construction is begun as required, the commitment shall be effective for such additional period, estimated by the Commissioner, as will allow for completion of construction.
(3) The term of a firm commitment may be extended in such a manner as the Commissioner may prescribe.
[61 FR 14417, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 241.515
Inspection fee.
The firm commitment may provide for the payment of an inspection fee in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the commitment. If an inspection fee is required, it shall be paid as follows:
(a) If the case involves the insurance of advances, it shall be paid at the time of initial endorsement.
(b) If the case involves insurance upon completion, it shall be paid prior to the date construction is begun.
§ 241.520
Fees on increases.
(a)
Increase in firm commitment prior to endorsement.
An application filed prior to initial endorsement (or prior to endorsement in a case involving insurance upon completion), for an increase in the amount of an outstanding firm commitment shall be accompanied by a combined additional application and commitment fee. This combined additional fee shall be in an amount which will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the requested increase. if an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount computed at the same dollar rate per thousand dollars of the amount of increase in commitment as was used for the inspection fee required in the original commitment. When insurance of advances is involved, the additional inspection fee shall be paid at time of initial endorsement. When insurance upon completion is involved, the additional inspection fee shall be paid prior to the date construction is begun or if construction has begun, it shall be paid with the application for increase.
(b)
Increase in loan between initial and final endorsement.
Upon an application, filed between initial and final endorsement, for an increase in the amount of the loan, either by amendment or by substitution of a new loan, a combined additional application and commitment fee shall accompany the application. This combined additional fee shall be in an amount which will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase requested. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall accompany the application in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase requested.
§ 241.525
Refund of fees.
If the amount of the commitment issued or an increase in loan prior to endorsement is less than the amount applied for, the Commissioner shall refund the excess amount of the application and commitment fees submitted by the applicant. If an application is rejected before it is assigned for processing, or in such other instances as the Commissioner may determine, the entire application and commitment fees or any portion thereof may be returned to the applicant. Commitment, inspection, and reopening fees may be refunded, in whole or in part if it is determined by the Commissioner that the installation of energy conserving improvements for the project has been prevented because of condemnation proceedings or other legal action taken by a governmental body or public agency, or in such other instances as the Commissioner may determine.
§ 241.530
Maximum fees and charges by lender.
The lender may collect from the borrower the amount of the fees provided for in this subpart. The lender may also collect from the borrower an initial service charge in an amount not to exceed 2 percent of the original principal amount of the loan to reimburse the lender for the cost of originating and closing the transaction. Any additional charges shall be subject to the prior approval of the Commissioner.

# Eligible Security Instruments
§ 241.530a
Note and security form.
The lender shall present for insurance a note and security instrument, on forms approved by the Commissioner for use in the jurisdiction in which the property to be improved is located.
[45 FR 57983, Aug. 29, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 80276, Dec. 4, 1980]
§ 241.535
Loan multiples—minimum principal.
The loan shall involve a principal obligation in multiples of $100, and the minimum principal obligation shall be $10,000.
§ 241.540
Method of loan payment and amortization period.
(a)
Monthly payments.
The loan shall provide for monthly payments on the first day of each month on account of interest and principal and shall provide for payment in accordance with the amortization plan as agreed upon by the borrower, the lender and the Commissioner.
(b)
Amortization period.
(1) The loan shall have an amortization of either 5, 10, or 15 years by providing for either 60, 120, or 180 monthly amortization payments. No energy saving loan shall have an amortization period in excess of 15 years unless the amount of the loan exceeds $50,000.00, in which event the amortization period may be increased to 20 years, with a provision for 240 monthly amortization payments.
(2) In any event, the loan shall have a maturity satisfactory to the Commissioner of not less than 2 or more than 20 years from the date of the beginning of amortization, or the Commissioner's estimate of the remaining economic life of the structure, whichever is the lesser.
(3) The Commissioner shall establish the date of the first payment to principal, which shall be no later than the first day of the second month following the date of final endorsement (for projects involving insurance of advances) or endorsement (for projects involving insurance upon completion) of the loan for insurance.
§ 241.545
Covenant against liens.
The security instrument shall contain a covenant against the creation by the borrower of additional liens against the property superior or inferior to the lien of such instrument, except with the prior approval of the Commissioner.
§ 241.550
Accumulation of next premium.
The security instrument shall provide for payments by the borrower to the lender on each interest payment date of an amount sufficient to accumulate in the hands of the lender one payment period prior to its due date, the next annual insurance premium payable by the lender to the Commissioner.
§ 241.555
Security instrument and lien.
(a) The security instrument shall cover the entire property included in the project, shall be a lien on the real property of the project under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the project is located, and may be junior to such prior liens or mortgage indebtedness as the Commissioner may approve. The security instrument shall contain a provision that a default under the first mortgage is a default under the supplementary loan security instrument.
(b) For bond-financed projects where the bond resolution contains a provision prohibiting the creation of additional liens, the Commissioner may accept at his/her option:
(1) A first lien on another property whose fair market value as determined by the Commissioner equals or exceeds the amount of the loan insured under this part;
(2) A Collateral Account in an amount not less than the amount of
the loan insured under this part funded with cash or negotiable bonds or securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government; or
(3) Other security acceptable to the Commissioner.
§ 241.560
Agreed interest rate.
(a) The mortgage shall bear interest at the rate agreed upon by the lender and the borrower.
(b) Interest shall be payable in monthly installments on the principal amount of the loan outstanding on the due date of each installment.
[45 FR 57983, Aug. 29, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 19459, May 8, 1984]
§ 241.565
Maximum loan amount.
The principal amount of the loan shall in no event exceed the cost of the energy conserving improvements including the purchase thereof, cost of installation, architect's fees, interest during construction and such other miscellaneous fees and charges incident to construction as determined by the Commissioner. Nor shall the principal amount of the loan exceed the lesser of the following:
(a) An amount which can be supported by residual income, which is the amount of net income remaining after payment of all existing debt service requirements and deduction of proprietary earnings, as determined by the Commissioner. The computation of net income shall take into account the amount which will be saved in operating costs over the period of repayment of the loan as a result of the installation of the energy conserving improvements.
(b) An amount which, when added to the existing outstanding indebtedness, does not exceed the Commissioner's estimate of the value of the project after the energy conserving improvements are installed.
§ 241.570
Insurance endorsement.
(a)
Initial endorsement.
The Commissioner shall indicate his/her insurance of the mortgage by endorsing the original credit instrument and identifying the section of the Act and the regulations under which the mortgage is insured and the date of insurance.
(b)
Final endorsement.
When all advances of mortgage proceeds have been made and all the terms and conditions of the commitment have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, he/she shall indicate on the original credit instrument the total approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument.
(c)
Effect of endorsement.
From the date of initial endorsement, the Commissioner and the mortgagee or lender shall be bound by the provisions of this subpart to the same extent as if they had executed a contract including the provisions of this subpart and the applicable sections of the Act.
(d)
Insurance upon completion.
When all advances of mortgage proceeds have been made and all the terms and conditions of the commitment have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, he/she shall indicate the total approved for insurance and endorse the credit instrument, identifying the date of insurance.
§ 241.580
Application of payments.
(a) The security instrument shall provide that all monthly payments to be made by the borrower shall be added together and this aggregate amount shall be paid by the borrower upon each monthly payment date in a single payment. The lender shall apply the payment to the following items in the order set forth:
(1) Premium charges under the contract of insurance;
(2) Interest on the loan;
(3) Amortization of the principal of the loan.
(b) Any deficiency in the amount of any monthly payments required under paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute an event of default and the loan shall further provide for a grace period of 30 days within which time the default must be cured.
§ 241.585
Prepayment privileges and prepayment charge.
The security instrument shall contain a provision permitting prepayment of the loan in whole or in part upon any interest payment date after giving to the lender 30 days advance written notice and it may contain a provision, with the approval of the
Commissioner, for a reasonable charge in the event of prepayment. The borrower shall be permitted to prepay up to 15 percent of the original principal amount of the loan in any one calendar year without an additional charge. A provision for a charge in the event of prepayment may not be included in a loan of $200,000 or less.
§ 241.586
Minimum principal loan amount.
A mortgagee may not require, as a condition of providing a loan insured under this subpart, that the principal amount of the mortgage exceed a minimum amount established by the mortgagee.
[53 FR 8886, Mar. 18, 1988]

# Property Requirements
§ 241.590
Eligibility of property.
(a) A loan to be eligible for insurance shall be on real estate held:
(1) In fee simple; or
(2) On the interest of the lessee under a lease for not less than seventy-five years which is renewable; or
(3) Under a lease having a period of not less than twenty-five years to run from the date the loan is executed.
(b) The property constituting security for the loan transaction must be held by an eligible borrower as herein defined and must at the time the loan is insured be free and clear of all liens other than those specifically approved by the Commissioner.

# Title
§ 241.595
Eligibility of title.
In order for the property which is to be the security for a loan to be insured under this subpart to be eligible for insurance, the Commissioner shall determine that the title to the property is vested in the borrower as of the date the security instrument is filed for record. The title evidence will be examined by the Commissioner and the endorsement of the credit instrument for insurance shall be evidence of its acceptability.
§ 241.600
Title evidence.
(a) Upon insurance of the loan, the lender shall furnish to the Commissioner a survey, satisfactory to the Commissioner, and a policy of title insurance as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the lender is unable to furnish such policy for reasons satisfactory to the Commissioner, the lender shall furnish such evidence of title as provided in paragraph (a) (2), (3), or (4) of this section as the Commissioner may require. Any survey, policy of title insurance, or evidence of title required under this section shall be furnished without expense to the Commissioner. The acceptable types of title evidence are:
(1) A policy of title insurance issued by a company and in a form satisfactory to the Commissioner. The policy shall name the lender and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, as their respective interests may appear, as the insured. The policy shall provide that upon acquisition of title by the lender or the Secretary, it will continue to provide the same coverage as the original policy, and will run to the lender upon its acquisition of the property in extinguishment of the debt, and to the Secretary upon acquisition of the property pursuant to the loan insurance contract.
(2) An abstract of title satisfactory to the Commissioner, prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title, accompanied by a legal opinion satisfactory to the Commissioner, as to the quality of such title, signed by an attorney at law experienced in the examination of titles.
(3) A Torrens or similar title certificate.
(4) Evidence of title conforming to the standards of a supervising branch of the Government of the United States of America, or of any State or territory thereof.
(b) The survey required by paragraph (a) of this section need not be furnished in connection with a project where the loan does not exceed $200,000.
[45 FR 57983, Aug. 29, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 34217, June 24, 1993]

# Form of Contract
§ 241.605
Contract requirements.
(a) When the principal amount of the loan is $100,000 or less, the form of contract between the borrower and the contractor shall be in accordance with the following:
(1) The contract between the borrower and the general contractor may be in the form of either a lump sum contract or a cost plus contract. Either form of contract shall include the cost of the energy conserving improvements, their installation, and such other work to be performed by the contractor as necessary to meet the requirements of the Secretary. A lump sum contract shall provide for the payment of a specified amount. A cost plus contract shall provide for the payment of the contractor's actual cost of compliance with the requirements of the contract, plus such allowances for overhead and profit as may be approved by the Commissioner and shall provide that the total cost under the contract shall not exceed the upset price as approved by the Commissioner.
(2) If agreed to by the general contractor and borrower, a lump sum form of contract between the borrower and the general contractor may be used unless the Commissioner determines that a cost plus contract with a maximum upset price is necessary to protect the interest of the borrower or the Commissioner.
(b) When the principal amount of the loan is over $100,000, the form of contract between the borrower and the contractor shall be in accordance with the following:
(1)
Lump sum contract.
If the Commissioner determines that there is no identity of interest between the borrower or any of the officers, directors or stockholders of the borrower and the contractor, there may be used a lump sum contract providing for payment of the specified amount.
(2)
Cost plus fixed fee contract.
(i) If the Commissioner determines that there is any identity of interest (financial or otherwise) between the borrower, its officers, directors or stockholders and the contractor, the form of contract shall provide for payment of the actual cost of construction not to exceed an upset price and may provide for payment of a fixed fee not exceeding a reasonable allowance as established by the Commissioner in accordance with customary practices in the area.
(ii) In any case where the borrower is a nonprofit entity, a cost plus fixed fee contract shall be used unless it is established to the Commissioner's satisfaction that such form of contract is not required to protect his/her interests and the interests of the borrower, in which case, a lump sum form of contract may be used.
§ 241.610
Assurance of completion.
(a) The borrower shall furnish assurance of completion of the project in the following minimum forms and amounts:
(1) Where the estimated cost of construction of the improvements is $500,000 or less, the borrower shall furnish assurance of completion of the project in the form of a personal indemnity agreement executed by the principal officers, directors, stockholders, or partners of the entity acting as general contractor.
(2) Where the estimated cost of construction of the improvements is more than $500,000 or where such cost is less than $500,000 and a personal indemnity agreement is not executed, the assurance shall be in the form of corporate surety bonds for payment and performance, each in the minimum amount of 25 percent of the construction contract, or a completion assurance agreement secured by a cash deposit in the minimum amount of 15 percent of the amount of the construction contract.
(3) All types of assurance of completion shall be on forms approved by the Commissioner. Any surety company executing a bond and any party executing a personal indemnity agreement must be satisfactory to the Commissioner.
(4) A mortgagee may prescribe more stringent requirements for assurance of completion than the minimum requirements of this section.
(b) The lender may accept, in lieu of a cash deposit required by paragraph (a) of this section, an unconditional irrevocable letter of credit issued to the lender by a banking institution. In the
event a demand under the letter of credit is not immediately met, the lender shall forthwith provide cash equivalent to the undrawn balance thereunder.
§ 241.615
Certification of cost requirements.
(a)
Certification agreement.
The lender shall submit with the application an agreement on a form prescribed by the Commissioner and executed by the borrower and the lender.
(b)
Certificate and adjustment.
No loan shall be insured unless:
(1) A certification of actual cost is made by the contractor in cases in which a cost plus form of contract is used; and
(2) The amount of the loan is adjusted to reflect the actual cost to the borrower of the improvements when either a cost plus or lump sum form or contract is used.
(c)
Cost computation.
The term
actual cost of the improvements
shall mean the cost to the borrower of the improvements, after deducting the amount of any kickbacks, rebates or trade discount received in connection with the improvements, and including the amounts paid under any contract for the improvements, labor, materials, and for any other items of expenses approved by the Commissioner.
(d)
Statement of facts.
Any agreement, undertaking, statement or certification required in connection with cost certification shall specifically state that it has been made, presented and delivered for the purpose of influencing an official action of the Commissioner and may be relied upon as a true statement of the facts contained therein.
(e)
Incontestability.
Upon the Commissioner's approval of the cost certification, such certification shall be final and incontestable except for fraud or material misrepresentation on the part of the borrower.
(f)
Records.
The borrower shall keep and maintain adequate records of all costs of any construction improvements or other cost items not representing work under the general contract and shall require the contractor to keep similar records and, upon request by the Commissioner, both shall make available for examination such records, including any collateral agreements.
(g)
Certificate of public accountant.
Where required by the Commissioner, each certificate of actual cost shall be supported by a certificate as to accuracy by an independent Certified Public Accountant or independent public accountant licensed by a regulatory authority of a State or other political subdivision of the United States on or prior to December 31, 1970, which shall include a statement that the accounts, records and supporting documents have been examined in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards to the extent deemed necessary to verify the actual costs.

# Eligible Borrowers
§ 241.625
Eligible borrowers.
In order to be eligible as a borrower under this subpart, the applicant shall be a profit, limited distribution, nonprofit, or cooperative owner of a multifamily housing project which is not covered by a mortgage insured or held by the Secretary and which the Commissioner has determined to be an acceptable risk in that energy conservation or solar energy benefits to be derived outweigh the risks of possible loss of the Federal Government.
§ 241.626
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers.
To be eligible for loan insurance under this subpart, the borrower must meet the requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers, as provided by part 200, subpart U, of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0118)
[54 FR 39696, Sept. 27, 1989]

# Special Requirements
§ 241.630
Maximum insurance against loss.
A loan insured under this subpart shall be insured for 90 percent of any loss incurred by the person holding the note for the loan.
§ 241.635
Regulatory agreement.
Any borrower obligated on the note for any loan insured under this subpart shall be regulated or restricted in a manner and on a form prescribed by the Secretary as to rents or sales, charges, capital structure, rate of return and methods of operation of the multifamily project to such an extent and in such manner as to provide reasonable rental to tenants and a reasonable return on the investment until the termination of all obligations of the Secretary under the contract of insurance.
§ 241.640
Employment discrimination prohibited.
Any contract or subcontract executed for the performance of constructing the improvements to the project shall provide that there shall be no discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability, age, or national origin.
[61 FR 14417, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 241.645
Labor standards and prevailing wage requirements.
(a) Any contract, subcontract, or building loan agreement executed for the performance of construction of the project shall comply with all applicable labor standards and provisions of the regulations of the Secretary of Labor set forth in §§ 5.1 through 5.12 of title 29.
(b) No construction contract shall be entered into with a general contractor or any subcontractor if such contractor or any such subcontractor or any firm, corporation, partnership or association in which such contractor or subcontractor has a substantial interest is included on the ineligible list of contractors or subcontractors established and maintained by the Comptroller General, pursuant to § 5.6(b) of title 29.
(c) No advance under the mortgage shall be eligible for insurance after notification from the Commissioner that the general contractor or any subcontractor or any firm, corporation, partnership or association in which such contractor or subcontractor has a substantial interest, was on the date the contract or subcontract was executed, on the ineligible list established by the Comptroller General, pursuant to the provision of the Secretary of Labor set forth in §§ 5.1 through 5.12 of title 29.
(d) No advance under any mortgage shall be eligible for insurance unless there is filed with the application of such advance a certificate or certificates in the form required by the Commissioner, supported by such other information as the Commissioner may prescribe, certifying that the laborers and mechanics employed in the construction of the dwelling or dwellings, or housing project involved, have been paid not less than the wage prevailing in the locality in which the work was performed for the corresponding classes of laborers and mechanics employed on construction of a similar character, as determined by the Secretary of Labor prior to beginning of construction and after the date of filing of the application for insurance.
(e) Compliance with the provisions of this subsection shall be evidenced at such time and in such manner as the Commissioner may prescribe.

# Subpart D—Contract Rights and Obligations—Multifamily Projects Without a HUD-Insured or HUD-Held Mortgage

# Source:
45 FR 57987, Aug. 29, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 241.800
Definitions.
All of the definitions contained in § 241.500 shall apply to this subpart. In addition, as used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by the endorsement of the Commissioner upon the note given in connection with an insured loan and includes the provisions of this subpart and the applicable provisions of the Act.
(b)
Maturity
means the date on which the loan indebtedness would be extinguished if paid in accordance with periodic payments provided for in the loan.

# Premiums
§ 241.805
Insurance premiums.
(a)
First premium.
The lender, upon the endorsement of the loan for insurance, shall pay to the Commissioner a first loan insurance premium equal to one percent of the original face amount of the note.
(b)
Second premium.
The lender, on the date of the first principal payment, shall pay a second premium equal to one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following such first principal payment date which shall be adjusted as of that date so that the aggregate of the first and second premiums shall equal the sum of one percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the period from the date of the insurance endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(c)
Annual insurance premium.
Until the note is paid in full, or until the loan is assigned to the Commissioner, or until the contract of insurance is otherwise terminated with the consent of the Commissioner, the lender, on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay an annual loan insurance premium equal to one percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following the date on which such premium becomes payable.
(d)
Method of premium payment.
Premiums shall be payable in cash or in debentures of the General Insurance Fund at par plus accrued interest. All premiums are payable in advance and no refund can be made of any portion thereof except as provided in this part.
(e)
Calculation of premiums.
The premiums payable on and after the date of the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization provisions without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
§ 241.805a
Mortgagee's late charge.
Mortgage insurance premiums which are paid to the Commissioner more than 15 days after the billing date or due date, whichever is later, shall include a late charge of 4 percent of the amount of the payment due, except that no late charge shall be required with respect to any case for which HUD fails to render a proper billing to the mortgagee.
§ 241.815
Termination of insurance.
(a)
Prepayment in full.
The contract of insurance shall be terminated if the loan is paid in full prior to its maturity. Notice of the prepayment shall be given to the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, within 30 days from the date of the prepayment. The insurance termination shall become effective as of the date of the prepayment, or 30 days prior to the Commissioner's receipt of the prepayment notice, whichever is later.
(b)
Voluntary termination.
The contract of insurance shall be voluntarily terminated upon receipt by the Commissioner of a written request, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, by the borrower and the lender for such termination, accompanied by a submission of the original credit instrument for cancellation of the insurance endorsement and the remittance of all sums to which the Commissioner is entitled. The termination shall become effective as of the date these requirements are met.
§ 241.825
Pro rata refund of insurance premium.
Upon termination of a loan insurance contract by a payment in full or by a voluntary termination, the Commissioner shall refund to the lender for the account of the borrower an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the current annual loan insurance premium theretofore paid which is applicable to the portion of the year subsequent to the effective date of the termination.

# Rights and Duties of Lender Under the Contract of Insurance
§ 241.830
Definition of default.
(a) If the borrower fails to make any payments due under or provided to be paid by the terms of the note or security instrument, the note shall be considered in default for the purposes of this subpart.
(b) The failure to perform any other covenant under the note or security instrument shall be considered a default:
Provided,
The lender, because of such default, has exercised its rights under the note or security instrument and accelerated the debt.
(c) The failure to make any payment or to perform any covenant under the first conventional note and mortgage by reason of which the holder thereof declares a default as evidenced by formal written declaration of said default to the Commissioner and the lender by the holder of the first note and mortgage, shall be considered a default under the insured loan.
(d) If such defaults as defined in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section continue for a period of 30 days, the lender shall be entitled to receive the benefits of insurance hereinafter provided.
§ 241.840
Date of default.
In computing loan insurance benefits, the date of default shall be considered as:
(a) The date of the lender's acceleration of the debt because of the borrower's uncorrected failure to perform a covenant or obligation under the note or security instrument; or
(b) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment which subsequent payments by the borrower are insufficient to cover when applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they become due.
(c) The date of the lender's acceleration of the debt because of the borrower's default under the first conventional note and mortgage.
§ 241.850
Notice of default.
(a) If the default is not cured within the 30 day grace period, as defined in § 241.530(d), the lender shall, within 30 days thereafter, notify the Commissioner in writing of such default.
(b) The lender shall give notice in writing to the Commissioner of the failure of the borrower to comply with any covenant or obligation under the security instrument or note regardless of the fact that the lender may not have elected to accelerate the debt.
§ 241.860
Commissioner's right to require acceleration.
Upon receipt of notice of the failure of the borrower to comply with any covenant or obligation under the security instrument or note, or under the conventional note and mortgage, the Commissioner may require the lender to accelerate payment of the outstanding principal balance due.
§ 241.865
Election by the lender.
Where a real estate mortgage, or other security instrument has been used to secure the payment of a loan made under the provisions of this subpart and subpart C of this part, the lender may either elect to assign the loan to the Commissioner in exchange for the payment of insurance benefits or may exercise its rights under the note and security instrument in lieu of making a claim for insurance benefits. If the lender elects the latter course, the Commissioner shall be so notified and the contract of insurance shall be deemed terminated upon the date of receipt of such notification.
§ 241.875
Maximum claim period.
Notice of intention to file claim on a form prescribed by the Commissioner shall be filed within 45 days after the lender becomes eligible for the benefits of the loan insurance, or within such later time as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing.
§ 241.880
Items to be delivered on submitting claim.
Within 30 days after the filing of the notice of intention to assign the loan to the Commissioner, or within such further period as may be agreed upon by the Commissioner in writing, the lender shall deliver to the Commissioner:
(a) The fiscal data pertaining to the loan transactions;
(b) Receipts covering all disbursements as required by the fiscal data form;
(c) The original note and any security instrument or instruments which shall be assigned to the Commissioner without recourse or warranty, except that the lender must warrant that no act or omission of the lender has impaired the validity and priority of such
security instrument or instruments that the security instrument or instruments are prior to all mechanics' and materialmen's liens filed of record subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments regardless of whether such liens attached prior to such recording date, and prior to all liens and encumbrances which may have attached or defects which may have arisen subsequent to the recording of such security instrument or instruments, except such liens or other matters as may be approved by the Commissioner, that the amount stated in the instrument of assignment is actually due and owing under the security instrument or instruments, that there are no offsets or counterclaims thereto, and that the lender has a good right to assign such note and security instrument or instruments;
(d) The assignment to the Commissioner of all rights and interests arising under the note and security instrument or instruments so in default and all claims of the lender against the borrower or others arising out of the loan transaction;
(e) All policies of title or other insurance or surety bonds, or other guarantees and any and all claims thereunder; including evidence satisfactory to the Commissioner that the original title coverage has been extended to include the assignment of the note and security instrument or instruments to the Commissioner;
(f) All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers and accounts relating to the loan transaction;
(g) Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require;
(h) The following cash items, held in connection with the loan insured under this subpart, shall either be retained by the lender or delivered to the Commissioner at the time the insurance claim is filed.
(1) Any cash held by the lender or its agents or to which it is entitled including deposits made for the account of the borrower and which have not been applied in reduction of the principal the loan indebtedness.
(2) All funds held by the lender for the account of the borrower received pursuant to any other agreement.
(i) On the date the assignment of the note and security instrument or instruments are filed for record, the lender shall notify the Commissioner and the Office of Finance and Accounting by telegram of such recordation.
§ 241.885
Insurance benefits.
(a)
Method of payment.
Payment of insurance claims shall be made in cash, in debentures, or in a combination of both, as determined by the Commissioner either at, or prior to, the time of payment.
(b)
Amount of payment.
Upon acceptable assignment of the note and security instrument to the Commissioner, the insurance benefits shall be paid in an amount equal to 90 percent of the amount determined as follows:
(1) By adding to the unpaid principal amount of the loan, computed as of the date of default, the following items:
(i) Any accrued interest due as of the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.
(ii) Any advances approved by the Commissioner made previously by the lender under the provisions of the note or security instrument or instruments.
(iii) Reimbursements for such reasonable collection costs, court costs, and attorney's fees as may be approved by the Commissioner.
(iv) Any loan insurance premiums paid after default.
(v) If payment is made in cash, an amount equivalent to the debenture interest which would have been earned thereon, as of the date such cash payment is made, except when the lender fails to meet any one of the applicable requirements of §§ 241.850, 241.875, and 241.880, within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended.
(2) By deducting from the total of the items computed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section the following items:
(i) Any amount received by the lender on account of the loan after the date of default.
(ii) Any net income received by the lender from the property covered by the note or security instrument and not applied to prior debts held by the lender.
(iii) The sum of the cash items retained by the lender pursuant to § 241.880(h) (1) and (2).
[45 FR 57987, Aug. 29, 1980, as amended at 80 FR 51469, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 241.890
Characteristics of debentures.
Debentures issued in settlement of insurance claims under this subpart shall have the same characteristics and the same requirements for registration and redemption as those issued pursuant to subpart B of this part except that debentures shall bear interest at the rate in effect as of the date the commitment was issued, or as of the date the loan was first endorsed for insurance, whichever rate is higher, and shall mature 10 years from the date of issue which date shall be the date of execution of the assignment of the loan to the Commissioner.
§ 241.893
Cash adjustment.
Any difference of less than $50 between the amount of debentures to be issued to the lender and the total amount of the lender's claim, as approved by the Commissioner, may be adjusted by the issuance of a check in payment thereof.
[59 FR 49817, Sept. 30, 1994]

# Assignments
§ 241.895
Assignment of insured loans.
(a) An insured loan may be transferred only to a transferee who is a lender approved by the Commissioner. Upon such transfer and the assumption by the transferee of all obligations under the contract of insurance the transferor shall be released from its obligations under the contract of insurance.
(b) The contract of insurance shall terminate with respect to loans described in paragraph (a) of this section upon the happening of either of the following events:
(1) The transfer or pledge of the insured loan to any person, firm or corporation, public or private, other than an approved lender.
(2) The disposal by a lender of any partial interest in the insured loan to other than an approved lender.

# Extension of Time
§ 241.897
Actions to be taken by lender.
With respect to any action required of the lender within a period of time prescribed by this subpart, the Commissioner may extend such period.

# Rights in Housing Fund
§ 241.900
No vested right in fund.
Neither the lender nor the borrower shall have any vested or other right in the General Insurance Fund.
§ 241.905
Effect of amendments.
The regulations in this subpart may be amended by the Commissioner at any time and from time to time in whole or in part, but such amendment shall not adversely affect the interests of a lender under the contract of insurance on any loan already insured and shall not adversely affect the interests of a lender on any loan to be insured on which the Commissioner has made a commitment to insure.

# Subpart E—Insurance for Equity Loans and Acquisition Loans—Eligibility Requirements

# Source:
57 FR 12037, Apr. 8, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 241.1000
Purpose and scope.
(a) Section 231 of the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1989 (“ELIHPA”) amended the National Housing Act by adding a new subsection (f) to section 241. This section authorizes the Secretary to provide insurance for an equity loan as a vehicle for the owner of an eligible multifamily project to capture a portion of the project's equity, in connection with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner under ELIHPA.
(b) Section 602 of the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990
(“LIHPRHA”) amended section 241 by expanding its scope to include both equity loans for owners, and acquisition loans for purchasers, under a plan of action approved under the provisions of the 1990 Act, and by making other changes. The provisions of section 241(f) as amended by LIHPRHA are applicable to owners with plans of action being processed under part 248, subpart B of this chapter, which implements LIHPRHA.
(c) The provisions of section 241(f) of the Act as they were in effect prior to LIHPRHA remain in effect for owners with plans of action being processed under part 248, subpart C of this chapter, which implements ELIHPA.
(d) The insurance of an equity loan or acquisition loan under subpart E of this part may be provided only as a specific element of a plan of action approved by the Commissioner under part 248 of this chapter and is not available under any other departmental program.
(e) Unless otherwise indicated, the provisions of subparts E and F of this part are applicable to loans insured in connection with plans of action being processed under either subpart B or C of part 248 of this chapter.
(f) An owner or purchaser may obtain both a rehabilitation loan under subpart A of this part and an equity loan or acquisition loan under subpart E of this part.
§ 241.1005
Definitions.
(a) All of the definitions of § 241.1 apply to equity and acquisition loans insured under subpart E of this part except the following definitions:
§ 241.1(i)—Borrower;
§ 241.1(k)—Energy conserving improvements;
§ 241.1(1)—Solar energy system.
(b) As used in subpart E of this part, the following terms have the meaning indicated:
Acquisition loan
means a loan or advance of credit made to a purchaser of eligible low income housing which is made for the purpose of implementing a plan of action approved in accordance with part 248 of this chapter.
Borrower
means the owner or qualified purchaser of an eligible low income housing project, which owner receives and becomes primarily obligated for the repayment of an equity loan. With respect to loans insured in connection with a plan of action under part 248, subpart C of this chapter, the term includes a public entity, a nonprofit organization or a limited equity cooperative, which entity is purchasing an eligible low income housing project by means of an equity loan and is obligated for the payment of the equity loan.
Eligible low income housing
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 or § 248.201 of this chapter, with respect to loans insured in connection with plans of action under subparts B or C of part 248 of this chapter.
Equity
means, for purpose of subparts E and F of this part only, the difference between the fair market value of the project as determined by the Commissioner and the outstanding indebtedness relating to the property.
Equity Loan
means a loan or advance of credit to the owner of an eligible low income housing project which is made for the purpose of implementing a plan of action approved in accordance with part 248 of this chapter.
Extension preservation equity
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.
Limited equity cooperative
means a tenant cooperative corporation which, in a manner acceptable to the Commissioner, restricts the initial and resale price of the shares of stock in the cooperative corporation so that the shares remain affordable to low-income families and moderate income families.
Low-income families
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.
Moderate income families
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.
Plan of action
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 or § 248.201 of this chapter.
Preservation equity
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.
Priority purchaser
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.
Qualified Purchaser
has the same meaning as provided at § 248.101 of this chapter.
§ 241.1010
Feasibility letter.
(a)
Request for study.
The owner may request the Commissioner to undertake a feasibility analysis of an equity or acquisition loan, and issue a feasibility letter. At the discretion of the Commissioner the feasibility analysis may be undertaken or denied.
(b)
Findings.
The issuance of a feasibility letter indicates completion of the Commissioner's preliminary analysis for the insurance of an equity or acquisition loan. The feasibility letter shall contain the Commissioner's estimate of the supportable loan amount, based upon the project's equity in the case of an equity loan and based on the project's purchase price in the case of an acquisition loan, but such feasibility letter shall neither constitute a commitment to insure nor bind the Commissioner in any other manner.
(c)
Fee.
The Commissioner shall not charge a fee for undertaking a feasibility analysis or for the issuance of a feasibility letter.
§ 241.1015
Processing of applications and required fees.
(a)
Application.
An application for the issuance of a firm commitment for insurance of an equity or acquisition loan on a project shall be submitted by an approved lender and by the owner or purchaser of the project to the Commissioner on a form prescribed by the Commissioner. No application shall be considered unless the exhibits called for by such forms are furnished.
(b)
Commitment fees.
An application for a firm commitment shall be accompanied by the payment of an application-commitment fee of $5.00 per thousand dollars of the requested loan amount to be insured.
[61 FR 14417, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 241.1020
Commitments.
(a)
Firm commitment.
The issuance of a firm commitment indicates the Commissioner's approval of the application for insurance and sets forth the terms and conditions upon which the equity or acquisition loan will be insured. The firm commitment may provide for the insurance of advances of the equity or acquisition loan immediately upon endorsement of the note.
(b)
Term of commitment.
(1) A firm commitment is effective for whatever term is specified in the text of the commitment.
(2) The term of a firm commitment may be extended in such manner as the Commissioner may prescribe.
(c)
Reopening of expired commitments.
An expired firm commitment may be reopened if a request for reopening is received by the Commissioner within 90 days of the expiration of the commitment. The reopening request shall be accompanied by a fee of 50 cents per thousand dollars of the amount of the expired commitment. If the reopening request is not received by the Commissioner within the required 90-day period, a new application, accompanied by the required application and commitment fee, must be submitted.
[61 FR 14417, Apr. 1, 1996]
§ 241.1025
Refund of fees.
If the amount of the commitment issued is less than the amount applied for, the Commissioner shall refund the excess amount of the application and commitment fees submitted by the applicant. If an application is rejected before it is assigned for processing, or in such other instances as the Commissioner may determine, the entire application and commitment fees or any portion thereof may be returned to the applicant. Commitment and reopening fees may also be refunded to the applicant, in whole or in part, in such other instances as the Commissioner may determine.
§ 241.1030
Mortgage insurance premiums.
The lender, upon endorsement of the note, shall pay the Commissioner a first mortgage insurance premium equal to 0.5 percent of the original face amount of the equity or acquisition loan.
(a) If the date of the first principal payment is more than one year following the date of endorsement, the lender upon each anniversary of such endorsement date, shall pay a premium equal to 0.5 percent of the original face amount of the loan. On the date of the first principal payment, the lender shall pay another premium equal to 0.5 percent of the average outstanding
principal obligation of the loan for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of said premiums shall equal the sum of:
(1) 0.5 percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following the date of endorsement; and
(2) 0.5 percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the period from the first anniversary of the date of endorsement to one year following the date of the first principal payment.
(b) If the date of the first principal payment is one year or less than one year following the date of endorsement, the lender, upon such first principal payment date, shall pay a second premium equal to 0.5 percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the following year which shall be adjusted so as to accord with such date and so that the aggregate of the said two premiums shall equal the sum of:
(1) 0.5 percent per annum of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the period from the date of endorsement to the date of the first principal payment; and
(2) 0.5 percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following the date of the first payment following the date of the first principal payment.
(c) Until the equity or acquisition loan is paid in full or until receipt by the Commissioner of an application for insurance benefits, or until the contract of insurance is otherwise terminated with the consent of the Commissioner, the lender on each anniversary date of the first principal payment, shall pay an annual insurance premium equal to 0.5 percent of the average outstanding principal obligation of the loan for the year following the date on which such premium becomes payable.
(d) The premiums payable on or after the date of the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortizing provisions without taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
(e) Premiums shall be payable in cash or in debentures at par plus accrued interest. All premiums are payable in advance and no refund can be made of any portion thereof except as hereinafter provided in subpart E of this part.
§ 241.1035
Charges by lender.
(a) The lender may collect from the borrower the amount of the fees provided for by subpart E of this part.
(b) The lender may also collect from the borrower an initial service charge, as reimbursement for the cost of closing the transaction, in an amount not to exceed 2 percent of the original principal amount of the loan.
(c) Any charges to be collected by the lender in addition to those prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, shall be subject to the prior approval of the Commissioner.
§ 241.1040
Eligible lenders.
Lenders approved as mortgagees under §§ 202.6, 202.7 or 202.9 of this chapter are eligible for insurance of equity loans under this subpart.
[62 FR 20088, Apr. 24, 1997]
§ 241.1045
Note and security form.
The lender shall present for insurance a note and security instrument on forms approved by the Commissioner for use in the jurisdiction in which the property is located, which shall not be changed without the prior approval of the Commissioner. The security instrument shall provide for accelerated repayment at the request of the Commissioner pursuant to § 241.1046(b).
§ 241.1046
Rental assistance.
(a) When underwriting an equity or acquisition loan under subpart E of this part, the Commissioner may assume that the rental assistance provided in accordance with a plan of action approved under subparts B or C of part 248 of this chapter will be extended for the full term of the contract entered into under the plan of action.
(b) In the event that rental assistance is not extended under part 248 of this chapter, or the Commissioner is unable to develop a revised package of incentives to the owner comparable to those received under the original approved plan of action, the Commissioner may require the mortgagee to
accelerate the debt of the equity or acquisition loan.
(c) If the Commissioner is unable to extend the term of rental assistance for the full term of the contract entered into under part 248 of this chapter, the Commissioner is authorized to take such actions as the Commissioner deems appropriate to avoid default, avoid disruption of the sound ownership and management of the property or otherwise minimize the cost to the Federal Government.
§ 241.1050
Method of loan payment.
The loan shall provide for monthly payments on the first day of each month on account of interest and principal and shall provide for payments in accordance with the amortization plan as agreed upon by the borrower, the lender, and the Commissioner.
§ 241.1055
Date of first payment to principal.
The date for first payment to principal shall be established by the Commissioner.
§ 241.1060
Maturity.
(a) Equity loans shall have a term not to exceed 40 years; and
(b) Acquisition loans shall have a term of 40 years.
[58 FR 37814, July 13, 1993]
§ 241.1065
Maximum loan amount—loans insured in connection with a plan of action under subpart C of part 248 of this chapter.
The amount of the equity loan shall not exceed ninety percent of the owner's equity in the project, as determined by the Commissioner. Notwithstanding the above, the equity loan shall not exceed an amount which, when added to the existing indebtedness on the property, can be supported by 90 percent of the projected net operating income of the project, as determined by the Commissioner. The Commissioner, in making a determination regarding the amount of an equity loan and sums available to service said loan, shall take into account the fact that the project's income may increase within the limits established by § 248.233(d) of this chapter.
§ 241.1067
Maximum loan amount—loans insured in connection with a plan of action under subpart B of part 248 of this chapter.
(a) The amount of the equity loan shall not exceed:
(1) The amount of rehabilitation costs as determined under an approved plan of action and related charges; plus
(2) The lesser of 70 percent of the extension preservation equity of the project; or
(3) The amount the Commissioner determines can be supported by the project on the basis of an 8 percent return on extension preservation equity, assuming normal debt service coverage. To the extent practicable, equity loans shall have amortization provisions which will support the maximum loan amount authorized under this section.
(b) The amount of the acquisition loan shall not exceed:
(1) The amount of rehabilitation costs as determined under an approved plan of action and related charges; plus
(2) Ninety-five percent of the transfer preservation equity of the project; and
(3) If the purchaser is a priority purchaser, the loan may include any expenses associated with the acquisition, loan closing, and implementation of the plan of action, subject to the approval of the Commissioner.
[58 FR 37814, July 13, 1993]
§ 241.1068
Renegotiation of an equity loan.
The Commissioner shall renegotiate and modify the terms of an equity loan insured under this subpart at the request of the owner of the project for which a loan closing occurred if—
(a) The loan closing occurred between September 28, 1992 and January 26, 1993;
(b) The loan was made pursuant to a plan of action submitted under subpart C of part 248 of this chapter; and
(c) The plan of action was accepted by the Commissioner for processing in December 1991.
[58 FR 37814, July 13, 1993]
§ 241.1069
Escrow requirements.
(a) An equity loan provided in connection with a plan of action under subpart B of part 248 of this chapter
shall provide for the lender to deposit, on behalf of the borrower, 10 percent of the loan amount in an escrow account, controlled by the Commissioner or a State housing finance agency approved by the Commissioner, which shall be made available to the borrower upon the expiration of the 5-year period beginning on the date the loan is made, subject to compliance with § 248.147 of this chapter.
(b) An equity loan provided in connection with a plan of action under either subpart B or subpart C of part 248 of this chapter shall provide for the lender to phase in advances to reflect project rent levels.
§ 241.1070
Agreed interest rate.
The equity or acquisition loan shall bear interest at the rate agreed upon by the borrower and the lender.
§ 241.1080
Eligibility of title.
In order for the project to be eligible for insurance, the Commissioner shall determine that the title to the property is vested in the borrower as of the date the security instrument is filed for record. The title evidence will be examined by the Commissioner and the endorsement of the credit instrument for insurance shall be evidence of its acceptability.
§ 241.1085
Title evidence.
(a) Upon insurance of the loan, the lender shall furnish to the Commissioner a policy of title insurance as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the lender is unable to furnish such policy for reasons satisfactory to the Commissioner, the lender shall furnish such evidence of title as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (3) or (4) of this section as the Commissioner may require. Any policy of title insurance, or evidence of title required under this section shall be furnished without expense to the Commissioner. The acceptable types of title evidence are:
(1) A policy of title insurance issued by a company and in a form satisfactory to the Commissioner. The policy shall name the lender and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, as their respective interests may appear, as the insured. The policy shall provide that upon acquisition of title by the lender or the Secretary, it will continue to provide the same coverage as the original policy, and will run to the lender upon its acquisition of the property in extinguishment of the debt, and to the Secretary upon acquisition of the property pursuant to the loan insurance contract.
(2) An abstract of title satisfactory to the Commissioner, prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title, accompanied by a legal opinion satisfactory to the Commissioner, as to the quality of such title, signed by an attorney at law experienced in the examination of titles;
(3) A Torrens or similar title certification; or
(4) Evidence of title conforming to the standards of a supervising branch of the Government of the United States of America, or of any State or territory thereof.
[57 FR 12037, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34217, June 24, 1993]
§ 241.1090
Accumulation of next premium.
The security instrument shall provide for payments by the borrower to the lender on each interest payment date of an amount sufficient to accumulate in the hands of the lender one payment period prior to its due date the next annual insurance premium payable by the lender to the Commissioner. These payments shall continue only as long as the contract of insurance remains in effect.
§ 241.1095
Application of payments.
(a) The security instrument shall provide that all monthly payments to be made by the borrower shall be added together and the aggregate amount shall be paid by the borrower upon each monthly payment date in a single payment. The lender shall apply the payment in the following order:
(1) Premium charges under the contact of insurance;
(2) Interest on the loan; and
(3) Amortization of the principal of the loan.
(b) Any deficiency in the amount of any monthly payments required under
paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute a default. The security instrument shall provide for a grace period of 30 days within which time the default must be cured.
§ 241.1100
Prepayment privilege and charges.
(a)
Prepayment privilege.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the security instrument shall contain a provision permitting the borrower to prepay the loan, in whole or in part, upon any interest payment date after giving to the lender 30 days advance notice of its intention to prepay.
(2) If the loan exceeds $200,000, the security instrument may contain a provision for an additional charge in the event of prepayment of principal as may be agreed upon between the borrower and lender. These charges shall not be imposed if the loan is accelerated at the request of the Commissioner, pursuant to § 241.1046(b). The borrower shall be permitted to prepay up to 15 percent of the original principal amount of the loan in any one calendar year without any additional charge. A provision for an additional charge in the event of prepayment may not be included in a loan of $200,000 or less.
(b)
Prepayment of bond-financed loan.
Where the lender has obtained the funds for the loan by the issuance and sale of bonds or bond anticipation notes, or both, the loan may contain a prepayment restriction and prepayment penalty charges acceptable to the Commissioner as to term, amount, and conditions.
§ 241.1105
Late charges.
The note and security instrument may provide for the lender's collection of a late charge, not to exceed 2 cents for each dollar of each payment to interest or principal more than 15 days in arrears, to cover the expense involved in handling delinquent payments. Late charges shall be separately charged to and collected from the borrower and shall not be deducted from any aggregate monthly payment.
§ 241.1120
Mortgagee's consent.
The holder of an insured mortgage which is recorded prior to the equity or acquisition loan shall not withhold its consent to the equity or acquisition loan (whether or not such equity or acquisition loan is insured by the Commissioner) or the security instrument executed in connection therewith, and may not charge a fee as a condition to its consent to such loan or security instrument.

# Subpart F—Insurance for Equity Loans and Acquisition Loans—Contract Rights and Obligations

# Source:
57 FR 12040, Apr. 8, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 241.1200
Cross-references.
(a)
Projects with a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage.
(1) All the provisions of part 207, subpart B of this chapter, covering mortgages insured under section 207 of the Act, apply to equity loans or acquisition loans on a project insured under section 241(f) of the Act, except the following provisions:
Sec.
207.251 Definitions.
207.252 First, second and third premium.
207.252a Premiums—operating loss loans.
207.252b Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to section 223(f) of the Act.
207.252c Premiums—mortgages insured pursuant to section 238(c) of the Act.
207.254 Insurance endorsement.
(2) For the purposes of subpart F of this part, all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the Act and to the term “mortgage” shall be construed to refer to section 241(f) of the Act and “equity or acquisition loan,” respectively.
(b)
Projects without a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage.
The provisions of subpart D of this part shall be applicable to a project without a HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage that is receiving an equity loan or acquisition loan under subpart E of this part in connection with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner under part 248 of this chapter.
(c) All of the definitions in § 241.1005 apply to subpart F of this part. In addition, as used in subpart F of this part, the term “contract of insurance” means the agreement evidenced by the Commissioner's insurance endorsement and includes the provisions of subpart F of this part and of the Act.
§ 241.1205
Payment of insurance benefits.
All the provisions of § 207.259 of this chapter relating to insurance benefits shall apply to an equity or acquisition loan insured under subpart F of this part.
[80 FR 51469, Aug. 25, 2015]
§ 241.1210
Condition for payment of insurance benefits.
(a) All of the provisions of § 207.258 of this chapter apply to subpart F of this part, except that, if the holder of the senior insured mortgage institutes a foreclosure action, the lender shall notify the Commissioner in a timely manner of such action. The Commissioner, at its option, may then direct the lender to assign the equity or acquisition loan to the Commissioner, or bid an amount necessary to acquire the project and convey the project to the Commissioner.
(b) If the equity loan or acquisition loan is assigned in accordance with this section, the Commissioner at a foreclosure sale may bid, in addition to amounts otherwise authorized, any sum not in excess of the aggregate unpaid indebtedness secured by the senior insured mortgage and equity or acquisition loan, plus taxes, insurance, foreclosure costs, fees and other expenses.
§ 241.1215
Calculation of insurance benefits.
All of the provisions of § 207.259 of this chapter apply to subpart F of this part, except that if the lender, at the direction of the Commissioner, acquires title to the project at a foreclosure sale instituted by the holder of the senior insured mortgage, the amount of the claim determined under § 207.259(c) of this chapter shall also include an amount bid by the lender to satisfy the senior insured mortgage at the foreclosure sale.
§ 241.1220
Termination of insurance benefits.
All of the provisions of § 207.253a of this chapter apply to subpart F of this part, except that the following shall also constitute grounds for terminating the contract of insurance:
(a) The failure of the lender to notify the Commissioner in a timely manner of a foreclosure action initiated by the holder of the senior insured mortgage; and
(b) The failure of the lender when directed by the Commissioner to assign the equity or acquisition loan or bid an amount necessary to acquire title to the project and convey the project to the Commissioner, in accordance with § 241.1210.
§ 241.1230
No vested right in fund.
Neither the lender nor the borrower shall have any vested or other right in the insurance fund under which the loan is insured.
§ 241.1235
Cross default.
In the event the borrower commits a default under a prior recorded insured mortgage and the holder thereof initiates a foreclosure proceeding, said default under the prior recorded insured mortgage shall constitute a default under the equity or acquisition loan.
§ 241.1245
Insurance endorsement.
(a)
Endorsement.
The Commissioner shall indicate his insurance of the equity loan or acquisition loan by endorsing the original credit instrument and identifying the section of the Act and the regulations under which the loan is insured and the date of insurance.
(b)
Endorsement of phased loan.
In the event the loan is phased, the Commissioner shall indicate his insurance of each amount by endorsing the original credit instrument and identifying the section of the Act and the regulations under which such amount is insured and the date of the insurance.
(c)
Final advance of phased loan.
When all advances of a phased loan have been made and the terms and conditions of the commitment have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall indicate on the original credit instrument
the total of all advances the Commissioner has approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument.
§ 241.1250
Effect of endorsement.
From the date that the equity or acquisition loan is endorsed, the Commissioner and the lender shall be bound by the provisions of subpart F of this part to the same extent as if they had executed a contract including the provisions of subpart F of this part and the applicable sections of the Act.
Pt. 242

# PART 242—MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR HOSPITALS

# Subpart A—General Eligibility Requirements
Sec.
242.1
Definitions.
242.2
Program financial self-sufficiency.
242.3
Encouragement of certain programs.
242.4
Eligible hospitals.
242.5
Eligible mortgagees/lenders.
242.6
Property requirements.
242.7
Maximum mortgage amounts.
242.8
Standards for licensure and methods of operation.
242.9
Physician ownership.
242.10
Eligible mortgagors.
242.11
Regulatory compliance required.
242.13
Parents and affiliates.
242.14
Mortgage reserve fund.
242.15
Limitation on refinancing existing indebtedness.

# Subpart B—Application Procedures and Commitments
242.16
Applications.
242.17
Commitments.
242.18
Inspection fee.
242.19
Fees on increases.
242.20
Reopening of expired commitments.
242.21
Refund of fees.
242.22
Maximum fees and charges by mortgagee.
242.23
Maximum mortgage amounts and cash equity requirements.
242.24
Initial operating costs.

# Subpart C—Mortgage Requirements
242.25
Mortgage form and disbursement of mortgage proceeds.
242.26
Agreed interest rate.
242.27
Maturity.
242.28
Allowable costs for consultants.
242.29
Payment requirements.
242.30
Application of payments.
242.31
Accumulation of accruals.
242.32
Covenant against liens.
242.33
Covenant for malpractice, fire, and other hazard insurance.
242.35
Mortgage lien certifications.
242.37
Mortgage prepayment.
242.38
Late charge.

# Subpart D—Endorsement for Insurance
242.39
Insurance endorsement.
242.40
Mortgagee certificate.
242.41
Certification of cost requirements.
242.42
Certificates of actual cost.
242.43
Application of cost savings.

# Subpart E—Construction
242.44
Construction standards.
242.45
Early commencement of work.
242.46
Insured advances—building loan agreement.
242.47
Insured advances for building components stored off-site.
242.48
Insured advances for certain equipment and long lead items.
242.49
Funds and finances: deposits and letters of credit.
242.50
Funds and finances: off-site utilities and streets.
242.51
Funds and finances: insured advances and assurance of completion.
242.52
Construction contracts.
242.53
Excluded contractors.

# Subpart F—Nondiscrimination and Wage Rates
242.54
Nondiscrimination.
242.55
Labor standards.

# Subpart G—Regulatory Agreement, Accounting and Reporting, and Financial Requirements
242.56
Form of regulation.
242.57
Maintenance of hospital facility.
242.58
Books, accounts, and financial statements.
242.59
Inspection of facilities by Commissioner.
242.61
Management.
242.62
Releases of lien.
242.63
Additional indebtedness and leasing.
242.64
Current and future property.
242.65
Distribution of assets.
242.66
Affiliate transactions.
242.67
New corporations, subsidiaries, affiliations, and mergers.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous Requirements
242.68
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers.
242.69
Transfer fee.
242.70
Fees not required.
242.72
Leasing of hospital.
242.73
Waiver of eligibility requirements for mortgage insurance.
242.74
Smoke detectors.
242.75
Title requirements.
242.76
Title evidence.
242.77
Liens.
242.78
Zoning, deed, and building restrictions.
242.79
Environmental quality determinations and standards.
242.81
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
242.82
Energy conservation.
242.83
Debarment and suspension.
242.84
Previous participation and compliance requirements.
242.86
Property and mortgage assessment.
242.87
Certifications.
242.89
Supplemental loans.
242.90
Eligibility of mortgages covering hospitals in certain neighborhoods.
242.91
Eligibility of refinancing transactions.
242.92
Minimum principal loan amount.
242.93
Amendment of regulations.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1709, 1710, 1715b, 1715n(f), and 1715u; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Eligibility Requirements
§ 242.1
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
Acquisition
means the purchase by an eligible mortgagor of an existing hospital facility and ancillary property associated therewith.
Act
means the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
).
Affiliate
means a person or entity which, directly or indirectly, either controls or has the power to control or exert significant influence on the other, or a person and entity both controlled by a third person or entity, which may be a parent entity. Indicia of control include, but are not limited to: Interlocking management or ownership, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and equipment, common use of employees, or a business entity organized following the suspension or debarment of a person or entity that has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded person or entity or as defined in the Medicare reimbursement regulations.
AMPO
(Allowance for Making Project Operational) relates to nonprofit projects and means a fund that is primarily for accruals during the course of construction for mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs), taxes, ground rents, property insurance premiums, and assessments, when funds available for these purposes under the Building Loan Agreement have been exhausted; and also for allocation to such accruals after completion of construction, if the income from the hospital at that time is insufficient to meet such accruals. AMPO may also be used for such other purposes as approved by HUD. Any balance remaining unused in the fund at final endorsement will be treated in accordance with § 242.43.
Applicant
means a HUD multifamily-approved lender that would be the mortgagee of record.
Capital debt
means the outstanding indebtedness used for the construction, rehabilitation, or acquisition of the physical property and equipment of a hospital, including those financing costs approved by HUD.
Chronic convalescent and rest
means skilled nursing services, intermediate care services, respite care services, hospice services, and other services of a similar nature.
Construction
means the creation of a new or replacement hospital facility, the substantial rehabilitation of an existing facility, or the limited rehabilitation of an existing facility. The cost of acquiring new or replacement equipment may be included in the cost of construction.
Days of cash on hand
means the number of days of operating cash available to the hospital, calculated pursuant to standards determined by HUD.
Debt service coverage ratio
is a measure of a hospital's ability to pay interest and principal with cash generated from current operations. Debt service ratio is calculated as follows: Debt Service Coverage Ratio (total debt service coverage on all long-term capital debt) equals the excess of revenues over expenses (not-for-profit) or net income (for-profit) plus interest expense
plus depreciation expense plus amortization expense, all divided by current portion of long-term debt (including capital leases) from the previous year's audited financial statement plus interest expense. The calculation can be expressed as:
ER28NO07.052
Hard costs
means the costs of the construction and equipment, including construction-related fees such as architect and construction manager fees.
Hospital
means a facility that has been proposed for approval or has been approved by HUD under the provisions of this subpart, and:
(1) That provides community services for inpatient medical care of the sick or injured (including obstetrical care);
(2) Where not more than 50 percent of the total patient days during any year are customarily assignable to the categories of chronic convalescent and rest, drug and alcoholic, epileptic, mentally deficient, mental, nervous and mental, and tuberculosis, except that the 50 percent patient day restriction does not apply to Critical Access Hospitals (hospitals designated as such under the Medicare Rural Hospital Flexibility Program) between January 28, 2008 and July 31, 2011.
(3) That is a facility licensed or regulated by the state (or, if there is no such state law providing for such licensing or regulation by the state, by the municipality or other political subdivision in which the facility is located) and is:
(i) A public facility owned by a state or unit of local government or by an instrumentality thereof, or owned by a public benefit corporation established by a state or unit of local government or by an instrumentality thereof;
(ii) A proprietary facility; or
(iii) A facility of a private nonprofit corporation or association.
Identity of interest
means a relationship that must be disclosed and may be prohibited pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Agreement. Examples of a prohibited Identity of Interest relationship are, but are not limited to, a financial or family relationship between the mortgagor (which includes but is not limited to an officer, director, or partner of the mortgagor) and general contractor, subcontractor, seller of the land or property, any consultants, or other parties to the transaction.
Limited rehabilitation
means additions, expansion, remodeling, renovation, modernization, repair, and alteration of existing buildings, including acquisition of new or replacement equipment, in cases where the hard costs of construction and equipment are less than 20 percent of the mortgage amount.
Mortgage
means such classes of first liens as are commonly given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the state in which the real estate is located, together with any mortgage note secured thereby. The mortgage may be in the form of one or more trust mortgages or mortgage indentures or deeds of trust securing notes, bonds, or other mortgage notes; and, by the same instrument or by a separate instrument, it may create a security interest in the personalty, including, but not limited to, the equipment, whether or not the equipment is attached to the realty, and in the revenues and receivables of the hospital.
Mortgagee or lender
means the applicant for insurance or the original lender under a mortgage.
Mortgagor
means the original borrower under a mortgage and its successors and assigns.
Mortgage Reserve Fund
means a trust account, or an account held by the mortgagee, for and on behalf of the mortgagor, to which the mortgagor contributes and from which withdrawals must be approved by HUD. The purpose of the fund is to provide HUD a means to assist the hospital to avoid mortgage defaults and to preserve the
value of the mortgaged property and the hospital's business.
Most recent audited financial statement
means the audited financial statement required under the regulatory agreement for the prior fiscal year.
Net income
means the net income of a for-profit entity, or, in the case of a nonprofit entity, the excess of revenues less expenses.
Non-operating revenues and expenses
are those revenues and expenses not directly related to patient care, hospital-related patient services, or the sale of hospital-related goods. Examples of items classified as non-operating are state and federal income tax, general contributions, gains and losses from investments, unrestricted income from endowment funds, and income from related entities.
Classification of items as operating or non-operating shall follow written guidance by HUD.
Operating margin is operating income divided by operating revenue, where:
(1)
Operating revenue
is the revenue from the core patient care operations of the hospital. It includes revenues from the provision of such items as patient care (including, but not limited to, hospital-based nursing home and physicians' clinics); transfers from temporarily restricted accounts that are used for current operating expenses; and patient-related activities such as the operation of the cafeteria, parking facilities, television services to patients, sale of medical scrap or waste, etc. (Additional sources of revenue, which are classified as non-operating, are excluded from this measure, provided, however, at HUD's discretion, that revenue that has historically been received reliably and is expected to continue to be received may be considered operating revenue for underwriting purposes); and
(2)
Operating income
is operating revenue minus operating expenses, where operating expenses are the expenses incurred in providing patient care, including such items as salaries, supplies, and the cost of capital.
Parent
means an organization or entity that controls or has a controlling interest in another organization or entity.
Personalty
means all furniture, furnishings, equipment, machinery, building materials, appliances, goods, supplies, tools, books, records (whether in written or electronic form), computer equipment (hardware and software) and other tangible or electronically stored personal property (other than fixtures) that are owned or leased by the borrower or the lessee now or in the future in connection with the ownership, management, or operation of the land or the improvements or are located on the land or in the improvements, and any operating agreements relating to the land or the improvements, and any surveys, plans, specifications, and contracts for architectural, engineering, and construction services relating to the land or the improvements, chooses in action and all other intangible property and rights relating to the operation of, or used in connection with, the land or the improvements, including all governmental permits relating to any activities on the land. Personalty also includes all tangible and intangible personal property used for health care (such as major movable equipment and systems), accounts, licenses, bed authorities, certificates of need required to operate the hospital and to receive benefits and reimbursements under provider agreements with Medicaid, Medicare, state and local programs, payments from health care insurers and any other assistance providers (“Receivables”); all permits, instruments, rents, lease and contract rights, and equipment leases relating to the use, operation, maintenance, repair, and improvement of the hospital. Generally, intangibles shall also include all cash and cash escrow funds, such as but not limited to: Depreciation reserve fund or mortgage reserve fund accounts, bank accounts, residual receipt accounts, all contributions, donations, gifts, grants, bequests, and endowment funds by donors, and all other revenues and accounts receivable from whatever source paid or payable. All personalty shall be securitized with appropriate UCC filings and any excluded personalty shall be indicated in the Regulatory Agreement.
Preapplication meeting
means a meeting among HUD, a potential mortgagee (applicant), and a potential mortgagor
for mortgage insurance where there has been a positive Preliminary Review of the proposed project. The preapplication meeting is an opportunity for the potential mortgagee and mortgagor to summarize the proposed project, for HUD to summarize the application process, and for issues that could affect the eligibility or underwriting of the proposed loan to be identified and discussed.
Preliminary Review Letter
means a letter from HUD to a potential applicant communicating the result of the Preliminary Review. The letter may state that an application for mortgage insurance would probably not be successful and provide the reasons for this determination, or state that no factors that would cause an application to be rejected have been identified, and therefore there appears to be no bar to the applicant proceeding to a preapplication meeting.
Project
means the construction (which may include replacement of an existing hospital facility), or the substantial or limited rehabilitation of an eligible hospital, including equipment, which has been proposed for approval or has been approved by HUD under the provisions of this subpart, including the financing and refinancing, if any, plus all related activities involved in completing the improvements to the property. However, in particular closing documents, “project” may be used to mean the mortgagor entity, the operation of the mortgagor, the facility, or all of the mortgaged property, depending on the context in which the term “project” is used.
Refinancing
means the discharging of the existing capital debt of a hospital through entering into new debt.
Regulatory Agreement
means the agreement under which all mortgagors shall be regulated by HUD, as long as HUD is the insurer or holder of the mortgage, in a published format determined by HUD, and such additional covenants and restrictions as may be determined necessary by HUD on a case-by-case basis.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or his or her authorized representatives.
Section 242/223(f)
refers to a loan insured under Section 242 of the Act pursuant to Section 223(f) of the Act.
Security instrument
means a mortgage, deed of trust, and any other security for the indebtedness, and shall be deemed to be the mortgage as defined by the National Housing Act, as amended, implementing regulations, and HUD directives.
Service area
means that geographical area, identified by zip codes, from which a substantial majority of a hospital's patients derive.
Soft costs
means reasonable and customary legal, organizational, consulting, and such other costs associated with effecting the proposed project and its financing or refinancing, including, but not limited to, interest capitalized during construction; permanent financing fees; initial service charge; tax; title and recording expenses; special tax assessments; AMPO; insurance costs during construction; FHA fees and charges, including application, commitment, and inspection fees; mortgage insurance premium for advances during construction; prepayment penalties associated with retiring the hospital's existing bonds; and termination costs for interest rate protection facilities that are integrated into the original financing, as applicable.
State
includes the several states, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands.
Substantial rehabilitation
means additions, expansion, remodeling, renovation, modernization, repair, and alteration of existing buildings, including acquisition of new or replacement equipment, in cases where the hard costs of construction and equipment are equal to or greater than 20 percent of the mortgage amount.
Surplus Cash
means any cash remaining after all of the following conditions have been met:
(1) Final endorsement of the HUD-insured note has occurred;
(2) Mortgage payments for the preceding 12 months have been made when due, including any grace period;
(3) The Debt Service Coverage Ratio is greater than or equal to 1.50 in the
most recent audited financial statements and as of the date of distribution;
(4) Days in Accounts Receivable are less than or equal to 80 in the most recent audited financial statements and as of the date of distribution;
(5) The average payment period is less than or equal to 80 in the most recent audited financial statements and as of the date of distribution;
(6) The Mortgage Reserve Fund (MRF) is fully funded as of the date of the distribution in conformity with the MRF schedule;
(7) All income, property, and statutory employer payroll taxes and employee payroll withholding contributions (including penalties and interest, if applicable) have been deposited as of the date of the distribution, as required;
(8) The Current Ratio is greater than or equal to 1.50 in the most recent audited financial statements and immediately after the distribution;
(9) Days of cash on hand are greater than or equal to 21 days in the most recent audited financial statements and immediately after the distribution;
(10) The distribution may not be more than 50 percent of Net Income as reflected in the most recent audited financial statements, unless the Mortgagor has an equity financing ratio equal to or greater than 20 percent in the most recent audited financial statements and immediately after the distribution; and
(11) The Equity less any assets excluded from the mortgaged property is greater than 0.00 in the most recent audited financial statements and immediately after the distribution is made. As used in this definition:
“Most recent audited financial statements” refers to the audited financial statement required under section 242.58 for the prior fiscal year;
“Net Income” means Net Income for for-profit entities; Excess of Revenues over Expenses for not-for-profit entities; and Excess of Revenues over Expenses before Capital Grants, Contributions, and Additions to Permanent Endowment for governmental entities; and
“Equity financing ratio” means (Equity less any assets excluded from the mortgaged property)/(total assets less any assets excluded from the mortgaged property). Equity is defined as Equity for a for-profit entity, Total Net Assets for not-for-profit entities, and Total Net Assets for governmental entities.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35922, June 25, 2008; 78 FR 8341, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.2
Program financial self-sufficiency.
The Commissioner shall administer the Section 242 program in such a way as to encourage financial self-sufficiency and actuarial soundness; i.e., to avoid mortgage defaults and claims for insurance benefits in order to protect the mortgage insurance fund.
§ 242.3
Encouragement of certain programs.
The activities and functions provided for in this part shall be carried out so as to encourage provision of comprehensive health care, including outpatient and preventive care as well as hospitalization, to a defined population, and in the case of public and certain not-for-profit hospitals, to encourage programs that are undertaken to provide essential health care services to all residents of a community regardless of ability to pay.
§ 242.4
Eligible hospitals.
(a) The hospital to be financed with a mortgage insured under this part shall involve the construction of a new hospital, the substantial rehabilitation (or replacement) of an existing hospital, the limited rehabilitation of an existing hospital, the acquisition of an existing hospital, or the refinancing of the capital debt of an existing hospital pursuant to Section 223(a)(7) or Section 223(f).
(b) This part applies only to applications for FHA mortgage insurance submitted after a pre-application meeting (as defined in § 242.1) with HUD that occurred on and after January 28, 2008. HUD's regulations and practices prior
to January 28, 2008 apply to applications for FHA mortgage insurance submitted after a pre-application meeting that occurred before January 28, 2008.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8341, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.5
Eligible mortgagees/lenders.
The lender requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 202 regarding approval, recertification, withdrawal of approval, approval for servicing, report requirements, and conditions for supervised mortgagees, nonsupervised mortgagees, investing mortgagees, and governmental and similar institutions, apply to these programs.
§ 242.6
Property requirements.
The mortgage, to be eligible for insurance, shall be on property located in a state, as defined in § 242.1. The mortgage shall cover real estate in which the mortgagor has one of the following interests:
(a) A fee simple title;
(b) A lease for not less than 99 years that is renewable; or
(c) A lease having a term of not less than 50 years to run from the date the mortgage is executed.
§ 242.7
Maximum mortgage amounts.
The mortgage shall involve a principal obligation not in excess of 90 percent of HUD's estimate of the replacement cost of the hospital, including the equipment to be used in its operation when the proposed improvements are completed and the equipment is installed.
§ 242.8
Standards for licensure and methods of operation.
The Secretary shall require satisfactory evidence that the hospital will be located in a state or political subdivision of a state with reasonable minimum standards of licensure and methods of operation for hospitals, and satisfactory assurance that such standards will be applied and enforced with respect to the hospital.
§ 242.9
Physician ownership.
Ownership of an interest in the mortgagor by physicians or other professionals practicing in the hospital is permitted within limits determined by HUD to avoid insurance risks that may be associated with such ownership. The Commissioner shall determine if the proposed mortgagor will be at low risk for violation of regulations of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, other federal regulations, and state regulations governing kickbacks, self-referrals, and other issues that could increase the risk of eventual default. The Commissioner's determination shall be based on an unqualified legal opinion as to compliance with applicable federal law, among other considerations.
§ 242.10
Eligible mortgagors.
The mortgagor shall be a public mortgagor (i.e., an owner of a public facility), a private nonprofit corporation or association, or a profit-motivated mortgagor meeting the definition of “hospital” in § 242.1. The mortgagor shall be approved by HUD and, except in those cases where the hospital is leased as permitted in § 242.72, shall possess the powers necessary and incidental to operating a hospital. Eligible proprietary or profit-motivated mortgagors may include for-profit corporations, limited partnerships, and limited liability corporations and companies, but may not include natural persons, joint ventures, and general partnerships. Any proposed mortgagor must demonstrate that it has a continuity of organization commensurate with the term of the mortgage loan being insured. For new organizations, or those whose continuity is necessarily dependent upon an individual or individuals, broad community participation is required.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35922, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.11
Regulatory compliance required.
An application for insurance of a mortgage under this part shall be considered only in connection with a hospital that is in substantial compliance with regulations of the Department of Health and Human Services and the regulations of the applicable state governing the operation and reimbursement of hospitals. A hospital that is under investigation by any state or
federal agency for statutory or regulatory violations is not eligible so long as the investigation is unresolved, unless HUD determines that the investigation is minor in nature; that is, the investigation is unlikely to result in substantial liabilities or to otherwise substantially harm the creditworthiness of the hospital.
§ 242.13
Parents and affiliates.
As a condition of issuing a commitment, HUD may require corporate parents, affiliates, or principals of the proposed mortgagor to provide assurances, guarantees, or collateral to protect HUD's interests. The Commissioner may also require financial and operational information on the parent, other businesses owned by the parent, or affiliates of the proposed mortgagor and may also require a parent or affiliate to be regulated by HUD as to certain actions that could impact on the insurance of a mortgage loan for the benefit of the hospital.
§ 242.14
Mortgage reserve fund.
As a condition of issuing a commitment, HUD shall require establishment of a Mortgage Reserve Fund (MRF). The mortgagor shall be required to make contributions to the MRF such that, with fund earnings, the MRF will build to one year of debt service at 5 years following commencement of amortization, increasing thereafter to 2 years of debt service on and after 10 years following commencement of amortization according to a schedule established by HUD, unless HUD determines that a different schedule of contributions is appropriate based on the mortgagor's risk profile, reimbursement structure, or other characteristics. In particular, hospitals that receive cost-based reimbursement may be required to have MRFs that build to more than 2 years of debt service. Expenditures from the fund are made at HUD's sole discretion or in accordance with the mortgagor's MRF Schedule. Upon termination of insurance, the balance of the MRF shall be returned to the mortgagor, provided that all obligations to HUD have been met.
§ 242.15
Limitation on refinancing existing indebtedness.
(a) Some existing capital debt may be refinanced with the proceeds of a section 242-insured loan; however, the hard costs of construction and equipment must represent at least 20 percent of the total mortgage amount.
(b) In the case of a loan insured under Section 242/223(f), there is no requirement for hard costs. However, if there are hard costs, such costs must total less than 20 percent of the total mortgage amount.
[78 FR 8341, Feb. 5, 2013]

# Subpart B—Application Procedures and Commitments
§ 242.16
Applications.
(a)
Application process
—(1)
Market need.
The approval process entails a determination of the market need of the proposal and stresses, on a market-wide basis, the impact of the proposed facility on, and its relationship to, other health care facilities and services (particularly other hospitals with mortgages insured under this part and hospitals that have a disproportionate share of Medicaid and uninsured patients or provide a substantial amount of charity care); the number and percentage of any excess beds; and demographic projections. Generally, Section 242 insurance may support start-up hospitals or major expansions of existing hospitals only if existing hospital capacity or services are clearly not adequate to meet the needs of the population in the service area.
(i) If the state has an official procedure for determining need for hospitals, HUD shall require that such procedure be followed before the application for insurance is submitted, and that the application document that need has also been established under that procedure.
(ii) The following factors are relevant in evaluating market need for the project and should be addressed, as applicable, in the study of market need and feasibility submitted with the application. Because each hospital presents a unique situation, there is no formula or cutoff level that applies to all applications:
(A) Service area definition;
(B) Existing or proposed hospital;
(C) Designation as sole community provider, Critical Access Hospital, or rural referral center;
(D) Community-wide use rates (discharges and days/1000);
(E) Statewide use rates (for benchmarking purposes);
(F) Current population and 5-year projection by age cohort;
(G) Staffed versus licensed beds;
(H) Applicant hospital's occupancy rate;
(I) Competitors' occupancy rates;
(J) Outpatient volume;
(K) Availability of emergency services;
(L) Teaching hospital status;
(M) Services offered by hospitals in the service area;
(N) Migration of patients out of the service area;
(O) Planned construction at other facilities in the region;
(P) Historical market share by major service category;
(Q) Disproportionate Share Hospital designation; and
(R) Distance to other hospitals.
(2)
Operating margin and debt service coverage ratio.
(i) Hospitals with an aggregate operating margin of less than 0.00 when calculated from the three most recent annual audited financial statements are not eligible for Section 242 insurance, unless HUD determines, based on the financial data in those statements, that the hospital has achieved a financial turnaround resulting in a positive operating margin in the most recent year, calculated using classifications of items as operating or non-operating in accordance with guidance that shall be provided in written directives by HUD. In any event, HUD shall not issue an insurance commitment for any hospital in a turnaround situation that has not achieved 2 consecutive years of positive operating margin immediately prior to issuance of the commitment.
(ii) Hospitals with an average debt service coverage ratio of less than 1.25 in the 3 most recent audited years are not eligible for Section 242 insurance, unless HUD determines, based on the audited financial data, that the hospital has achieved a financial turnaround resulting in a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.4 in the most recent year. In cases of refinancing at a lower interest rate, HUD may authorize the use of the projected debt service requirement in lieu of the historical debt service in calculating the debt service coverage ratios for each of the prior 3 years. In cases where HUD authorizes the use of the projected debt service requirement in lieu of the historical debt service to determine the debt service coverage ratio, hospitals must have an average debt service coverage ratio of 1.4 or greater.
(3)
Threshold requirements—refinancing candidates.
For an application to be considered for refinancing pursuant to Section 223(f), a hospital must meet the following requirements in lieu of those described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(i) The hospital must have an aggregate operating margin and average debt service coverage ratio as follows:
(A) The hospital must have an aggregate operating margin of at least zero percent, when calculated from the three most recent annual audited financial statements.
(B) The hospital must have an average debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.4 when calculated from the three most recent annual audited financial statements; or
(ii) If the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) and/or (B) of this section are not satisfied, HUD will recast the operating margin and debt service coverage ratio for prior periods by applying its estimate of the projected interest rate at the time the mortgage is expected to close in lieu of the historical interest rate(s).
(iii) In performing the calculations called for in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, if HUD finds that performance in one of the three years was affected by exceptional, one-time events that substantially altered financial performance, HUD may calculate the three-year performance based on the four most recent years with the unusual year omitted.
(iv) The hospital must document that it provides an essential healthcare service to the community in which it
operates and that its financial performance would be materially improved by refinancing its existing capital debt.
(v) The hospital may show that it provides an essential healthcare service to the community in which it operates by submitting an analysis quantifying how the community in which it presently operates would suffer from inadequate access to an essential healthcare service that the hospital presently provides if the hospital were no longer in operation.
(vi) The hospital may show that its financial performance would be materially improved by providing documentation of the following:
(A) There are limited comparable affordable refinancing vehicles available to the hospital; and,
(B) The hospital meets three of the following seven criteria:
(
1
) The proposed refinancing would reduce the hospital's total operating expenses by at least 0.25 percent;
(
2
) The interest rate of the proposed refinancing would be at least 0.5 percentage points less than the interest rate on the debt to be refinanced;
(
3
) The interest rate on the debt that the hospital proposes to refinance has increased by at least one percentage point at any time since January 1, 2008, or is very likely to increase by at least one percentage within one year of the date of application;
(
4
) The hospital's annual total debt service is in excess of 3.4 percent of total operating revenues, based on its most recent audited financial statement;
(
5
) The hospital has experienced a withdrawal or expiration of its credit enhancement facility, or the lender providing its credit enhancement facility has been downgraded, or the hospital can demonstrate that one of these events is imminent;
(
6
) The hospital is party to bond covenants that are substantially more restrictive than the Section 242 mortgage covenants; and
(
7
) There are other circumstances that demonstrate that the hospital's financial performance would be materially improved by refinancing its existing capital debt.
(4)
Financial feasibility.
The approval process entails a determination of the financial feasibility of the proposal, i.e., a determination that it is probable that the proposed mortgagor will be able to meet its debt service requirements during the period projected. It includes analysis of the reimbursement structure of the proposed hospital (including patient/payer mix); actions of competitors; and the probable projected impact on the proposed hospital of general health care system trends, such as the development of alternative health care delivery systems and new reimbursement methods. In addition to historical operating margin, determination of financial feasibility includes, but is not limited to, evaluation of the following factors, which the application must address and which HUD will review:
(i) Current and projected gains from operations and a manageable debt load using reasonable assumptions;
(ii) Current debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 or higher and projected debt service coverage ratio of 1.40 or higher;
(iii) Cushion in the balance sheet sufficient to demonstrate the ability to withstand short periods of net operating losses without jeopardizing financial viability;
(iv) Patient utilization forecasts (including average length of stay, case intensity, discharges, area-wide use rates) that are consistent with the hospital's historical trends, future service mix, market trends, population forecasts, and business climate;
(v) The hospital's demonstrated ability to position itself to compete in its marketplace;
(vi) Organizational affiliations or relationships that help optimize financial, clinical, and operational performance;
(vii) Management's demonstrated ability to operate effectively and efficiently, and to develop effective strategies for addressing problem areas;
(viii) Systems in place to monitor hospital operations, revenues, and costs accurately and in a timely manner;
(ix) A Board that is appropriately constituted and provides effective oversight;
(x) Required licensures and approvals; and
(xi) Favorable ratings from the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations or other organizations acceptable to HUD.
(5)
Preliminary Review.
A Preliminary Review is a general overview of the acceptability of a potential mortgagor performed at the request of a hospital, a financial consultant representing a hospital, or a lender, to identify any factors that would likely cause an application to be rejected, should an application be submitted.
(i) The purpose of the preliminary review is for HUD to identify any obvious factors that would cause an application to be rejected, before the potential mortgagor or mortgagee expends resources to prepare one. The hospital, financial consultant, or lender shall submit a preliminary information package to HUD that provides evidence of statutory eligibility, market need, financial strength, and such other documentation as HUD may require. The scope of the preliminary review does not include approval of any specific site in the community.
(ii) If HUD identifies factors that would cause an application to be rejected, HUD shall issue a Preliminary Review Letter notifying the potential applicant that an application for mortgage insurance would probably not be successful and providing the reasons for this decision. Also, no further request from the proposed applicant for a Preliminary Review shall be entertained for a period of one year from the date of HUD's notification. HUD may grant an exception to this one-year limitation if, during the year, there is a major change in the circumstances that caused HUD to determine that the project would be rejected. For example, if the sole reason for HUD's determination was the hospital's failure to meet the historical operating margin test, and a new audited annual financial statement contains results that would cause the hospital to meet the test, then the lender may request a new Preliminary Review within one year of HUD's notification.
(iii) If HUD does not identify any factors that would cause an application to be rejected, HUD shall issue a Preliminary Review Letter advising the potential applicant that there appears to be no bar to the applicant's proceeding to the next step in the application process, provided that if a complete application is not received by HUD within one year following the date of HUD's letter, another Preliminary Review may be required, at HUD's discretion, before the application process may proceed.
(iv) The Commissioner's determination in the preliminary review phase that no factors have been identified that would cause an application to be rejected shall in no way be construed as an indication that a subsequent application will be approved.
(6)
Preapplication meeting.
The next step in the application process is the preapplication meeting (this step is optional, at HUD's discretion, in Section 242/223(f) cases). At HUD's discretion, this meeting may be held at HUD Headquarters in Washington, DC, or at another site agreeable to HUD and the potential applicant. The preapplication meeting is an opportunity for the potential mortgagor to summarize the proposed project and refinancing, if any; for HUD to summarize the application process; and for issues that could affect the eligibility or underwriting of the project to be identified and discussed to the extent possible. Following the meeting, HUD may:
(i) Advise the potential applicant that there appears to be no bar to submitting an application for mortgage insurance; or
(ii) Identify issues that must be resolved before a full application should be submitted for processing.
(b)
Application contents.
The application for mortgage insurance shall include exhibits that follow such guidance as to content and format that HUD shall provide from time to time. The application shall include:
(1) A description of the proposed sources and uses of funds;
(2) A description of the mortgagor entity, its ownership structure, and its directors and managers;
(3) A description of the project, the business plan of the hospital, and how the project will further that plan, or, for applications pursuant to Section
223(f), a description of any limited rehabilitation to be financed with mortgage proceeds and how that limited rehabilitation will affect the hospital;
(4) Historical audited financial statements and interim year-to-date financial results (for existing hospitals);
(5) A study of market need and financial feasibility, addressing the factors listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, (whichever applies), with assumptions and financial forecast clearly presented. The study should be prepared by a certified public accounting firm acceptable to HUD. In the case of an application for Section 242/223(f) mortgage insurance, the study may not be required to address market need and there may be no requirement for involvement of a certified public accounting firm;
(6) Architectural plans and specifications in sufficient detail to enable a reasonable estimate of cost (not applicable to a Section 242/223(f) application, except when architectural plans and specifications are requested by HUD);
(7) Evidence that the hospital will be located in a state or political subdivision of a state with reasonable minimum standards of licensure and methods of operation for hospitals and satisfactory assurance that such standards will be applied and enforced with respect to the hospital;
(8) If the state has an official procedure for determining need for hospitals, evidence that such procedure has been followed and that need has been established under that procedure;
(9) A Phase I environmental report; and
(10) Such other exhibits as HUD shall require based upon the facts pertaining to the particular case.
(c)
Fee.
An application fee of $1.50 per thousand dollars of the amount of the loan to be insured shall be paid to HUD at the time the application is submitted to HUD for approval.
(d)
Filing of application.
An application for insurance of a mortgage on a project shall be submitted on an approved FHA form, by an approved mortgagee and by the sponsors of such project, to FHA.
(e)
Complete application.
Only technically complete applications will be processed. Partial applications cannot be processed. Upon determination that an application is complete, HUD shall issue a Completeness Letter to the applicant stating that the application is complete.
(f)
Application review.
Upon receipt of a complete application, HUD shall evaluate the application to determine if eligibility, market need, financial feasibility, and compliance with applicable regulations (including but not limited to federal environmental regulations, wage rate regulations, and health care regulations) have been demonstrated, and to evaluate any other factors, including but not limited to risk to the Insurance Fund, that should be considered in determining if the application for mortgage insurance should be approved. As a part of this review, HUD may solicit the advice of private consultants and expert staff in the Department of Health and Human Services and other federal agencies. Based on review of the complete application, HUD may request additional information from the applicant. The timeliness of the applicant's submission of the additional information may affect the approval or disapproval of the application. The Commissioner's decision shall be communicated in the form of a Commitment Letter or a Rejection Letter. HUD will not issue a Commitment Letter until HUD completes the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8341, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.17
Commitments.
(a)
Issuance of commitment.
Upon approval of an application for insurance, a commitment shall be issued by HUD setting forth the terms and conditions under which an insurance endorsement shall be issued for the hospital. The commitment shall include the following:
(1) A commitment for insurance of advances reflecting the mortgage amount, interest rate, mortgage term, date of commencement of amortization, and other requirements pertaining to the mortgage and construction project;
(2) In the case of an application for Section 242/223(f) insurance where advances are not needed for funding any
limited rehabilitation: a commitment for insurance upon completion, reflecting the mortgage amount, interest rate, mortgage term, date of commencement of amortization, and other requirements pertaining to the mortgage and to any limited rehabilitation;
(3) HUD's computation of the replacement cost and maximum insurable mortgage amount;
(4) Financial requirements for closing;
(5) Approval covenants, including any special conditions that must be satisfied prior to initial endorsement;
(6) Mortgage Reserve Fund Agreement.
(b)
Type of commitment.
The commitment will provide for the insurance of advances of mortgage funds during construction. In the case of a commitment for Section 242/223(f) insured refinancing or acquisition financing of an existing hospital, the commitment shall provide for insurance upon completion unless insured advances are needed for funding any limited rehabilitation approved by HUD, in which case the commitment shall provide for insurance of advances.
(c)
Term of commitment.
(1) The initial commitment shall be issued for a period of 90 days.
(2) The term of a commitment may be extended in such manner as HUD may prescribe, provided, however, that the combined term of the original commitment and any extensions do not exceed 180 days.
(d)
Commitment fee.
A commitment fee that, when added to the application fee, will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the loan set forth in the commitment, shall be paid within 30 days of the date of issuance of the commitment. If such fee is not paid within this 30-day period, the commitment shall automatically terminate.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8342, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.18
Inspection fee.
(a) The commitment may provide for the payment of an inspection fee in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the commitment. The inspection fee shall be paid no later than the time of initial endorsement.
(b) In the case of mortgages where the applicant is seeking only refinancing or acquisition, the inspection fee will not exceed 10 basis points on the loan. For applicants seeking a loan for refinancing or acquisition that also involves limited rehabilitation, the commitment shall provide for an inspection fee according to the following schedule:
Hard cost % of mortgage amount
Inspection fee limit
(basis points)
Less than 5%
10
5% or greater but less than 10%
20
10% or greater but less than 15%
30
15% or greater but less than 20%
40
20% or greater
50
[78 FR 8343, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.19
Fees on increases.
(a)
Increase in commitment prior to endorsement.
An application, filed prior to initial endorsement, for an increase in the amount of an outstanding commitment, shall be accompanied by an additional application fee of $1.50 per thousand dollars computed on the amount of the increase requested. Any increase in the amount of a commitment shall be subject to the payment of an additional commitment fee which, when added to the additional application fee, will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase. The additional commitment fee shall be paid within 30 days after the date of the amended commitment. If the additional commitment fee is not paid within 30 days, the commitment novation providing for the increased amount will automatically terminate and the previous commitment will be reinstated. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the amount of increase
in commitment. The additional inspection fee shall be paid at the time of initial endorsement.
(b)
Increase in mortgage between initial and final endorsement.
Upon an application, filed between initial and final endorsement, for an increase in the amount of the mortgage, either by amendment, consolidation agreement, or by substitution of a new mortgage, an additional application fee of $1.50 per thousand dollars computed on the amount of the increase requested shall accompany the application. The approval of any increase in the amount of the mortgage shall be subject to the payment of an additional commitment fee which, when added to the additional application fee, will aggregate $3 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase granted. If an inspection fee was required in the original commitment, an additional inspection fee shall be paid in an amount not to exceed $5 per thousand dollars of the amount of the increase granted. The additional commitment and inspection fees shall be paid within 30 days after the date that the increase is granted.
§ 242.20
Reopening of expired commitments.
An expired commitment may be reopened if a request for reopening is received by HUD no later than 90 days after the date of expiration of the commitment. The reopening request shall be accompanied by a fee of 50 cents per thousand dollars of the amount of the expired commitment. A commitment that has expired because of failure to pay the commitment fee may be reopened only upon payment of the commitment fee and the reopening fee. If the reopening request is not received by HUD within the required 90-day period, a new application accompanied by an application fee must be submitted. If a commitment for an increased amount has expired because of failure to pay an additional commitment fee based on the amount of the increase, the reopening fee shall be computed on the basis of the amount of the commitment increase rather than on the amount of the original commitment.
§ 242.21
Refund of fees.
Commitment, inspection, and reopening fees (but not application fees) may be refunded, in whole or in part, if HUD determines that the construction or financing of the project has been prevented because of condemnation proceedings or other legal action taken by a government body or public agency, or in such other instances as HUD may determine as being beyond the control of the applicant and resulting from no fault of the applicant. A transfer fee may be refunded only in such instances as HUD may determine. However, the portion of the inspection fee paid in connection with early commencement of work is not refundable.
§ 242.22
Maximum fees and charges by mortgagee.
The mortgagee may collect from the mortgagor the amount of the fees provided for in this subpart. The mortgagee may also collect from the mortgagor an initial service charge not to exceed 2 percent of the original principal amount of the mortgage to reimburse the mortgagee for the cost of closing the transaction. A permanent financing fee not to exceed 3.5 percent may be collected from the mortgagor; however, the combined initial service charge and permanent financing fee may not exceed 5.5 percent in bond transactions and 3.5 percent in all other transactions. Any additional charges or fees collected from the mortgagor shall be subject to prior approval of HUD and shall be clearly disclosed in the Mortgagee's Certificate.
§ 242.23
Maximum mortgage amounts and cash equity requirements.
(a)
Adjusted mortgage amount-rehabilitation projects.
A mortgage financing the substantial rehabilitation of an existing hospital shall be subject to the following limitations, in addition to those set forth in § 242.7:
(1)
Property held unencumbered.
If the mortgagor is the fee simple owner of the property and the property is not encumbered by an outstanding indebtedness, the mortgage shall not exceed 100 percent of HUD's estimate of the cost of the proposed substantial rehabilitation.
(2)
Property subject to existing mortgage.
If the mortgagor owns the property subject to an outstanding indebtedness, which is to be refinanced with part of the insured mortgage, the mortgage shall not exceed the total of the following:
(i) The Commissioner's estimate of the cost of substantial rehabilitation, plus
(ii) Such portion of the capital debt as does not exceed 90 percent of HUD's estimate of the fair market value of such land and improvements prior to substantial rehabilitation.
(3)
Property to be acquired.
If the property is to be acquired by the mortgagor and the purchase price is to be financed with a part of the insured mortgage, the mortgage shall not exceed 90 percent of the total of the following:
(i) The Commissioner's estimate of the cost of substantial rehabilitation, plus
(ii) The actual purchase price of the land and improvements or HUD's estimate (prior to substantial rehabilitation) of the fair market value of such land and improvements, whichever is the lesser.
(b)
Section 242/223(f) refinancing and acquisition—additional limits.
(1) In addition to meeting the requirements of § 242.7, if the hospital's existing capital debt is to be refinanced by the insured mortgage (i.e., without a change in ownership or with the hospital sold to a purchaser who has an identity of interest as defined by the Commissioner with the seller), the maximum mortgage amount must not exceed the cost to refinance the existing indebtedness, which will consist of the following items, the eligibility and amounts of which must be determined by the Commissioner:
(i) The amount required to pay off the existing capital debt;
(ii) The estimated hard costs, if any, totaling less than 20 percent of the mortgage amount; and
(iii) Soft costs that would normally be allowable in a Section 242 insured loan.
(2) In addition to meeting the requirements of § 242.7, if mortgage proceeds are to be used for an acquisition, the maximum mortgage amount must not exceed the cost to acquire the hospital, which will consist of the following items, the eligibility and amounts of which must be determined by the Commissioner:
(i) The actual purchase price of the land and improvements or HUD's estimate (prior to repairs, renovation, and/or equipment replacement) of the fair market value of such land plus the replacement cost of improvements, whichever is the lesser;
(ii) The estimated hard costs, if any, totaling less than 20 percent of the mortgage amount; and
(iii) Soft costs that would normally be allowable in a Section 242 insured loan.
(c)
Reduced mortgage amount—leaseholds.
In the event the mortgage is secured by a leasehold estate rather than a fee simple estate, the value or replacement cost of the property described in the mortgage shall be the value or replacement cost of the leasehold estate (as determined by HUD), which shall in all cases be less than the value or replacement cost of the property in fee simple.
(d)
Cash equity.
Depending on the financial circumstances of each hospital facility, HUD shall have the discretion to evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, the amount of equity that a mortgagor must supply in addition to the value of plant, property, and equipment and other values recognized as loan security in the commitment process. Exercise of this discretion shall never cause a loan to exceed 90 percent of estimated replacement cost, although it may cause it to be less than 90 percent. The equity contribution may not be made from borrowed funds. A private nonprofit or public mortgagor, but not a proprietary mortgagor, at the mortgagee's option and subject to 24 CFR 242.49, may provide any such required equity in the form of a letter of credit.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35922, June 25, 2008; 78 FR 8343, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.24
Initial operating costs.
In the case of a new hospital or a hospital expansion, HUD shall establish, on a case-by-case basis, the amount of initial operating capital, if any, that must be deposited in cash or a letter of credit (or combination) to be available
to the new hospital upon commencement of operations. Generally, the initial operating capital other than AMPO shall not be borrowed funds unless HUD determines that there are offsetting financial strengths to compensate for the risk associated with borrowing.

# Subpart C—Mortgage Requirements
§ 242.25
Mortgage form and disbursement of mortgage proceeds.
(a)
Mortgage form.
The mortgage shall be:
(1) Executed on a form approved by HUD for use in the jurisdiction in which the property covered by the mortgage is situated; the form shall not be changed without the prior written approval of HUD.
(2) Executed by an eligible mortgagor.
(b)
Disbursement of mortgage proceeds.
The mortgagee shall be obligated, as a part of the mortgage transaction, to disburse the principal amount of the mortgage to (or for the account of) the mortgagor or to his or her creditors for his or her account and with his or her consent.
§ 242.26
Agreed interest rate.
(a) The mortgage shall bear interest at the rate or rates agreed upon by the mortgagee and the mortgagor.
(b) The amount of any increase approved by HUD in the mortgage amount between initial and final endorsement in excess of the amount that HUD had committed to insure at initial endorsement shall bear interest at the rate agreed upon by the mortgagee and the mortgagor.
§ 242.27
Maturity.
The mortgage shall have a maturity not to exceed 25 years from the date amortization begins.
§ 242.28
Allowable costs for consultants.
Consulting fees for work essential to the development of the project may be included in the insured mortgage. Allowable consulting fees include those for analysis of market demand, expected revenues, and costs; site analysis; architectural and engineering design; and such other fees as HUD may determine to be essential to project development. Fees for work performed more than 2 years prior to application are not allowable. Fees for work performed by any party with an identity of interest with the proposed mortgagor or mortgagee are not allowable.
§ 242.29
Payment requirements.
The mortgage shall provide for payments on the first day of each month in accordance with an amortization plan agreed upon by the mortgagor, the mortgagee, and HUD.
§ 242.30
Application of payments.
All payments to be made by the mortgagor to the mortgagee shall be added together and the aggregate amount thereof shall be paid by the mortgagor each month in a single payment. The mortgagee shall apply each payment received to the following items in the following order:
(a) Premium charges under the contract of mortgage insurance;
(b) Ground rents, taxes, special assessments, and fire and other hazard insurance premiums;
(c) Interest on the mortgage; and
(d) Amortization of the principal of the mortgage.
§ 242.31
Accumulation of accruals.
(a) The mortgage shall provide for payments by the mortgagor to the mortgagee on each interest payment date of an amount sufficient to accumulate, in the hands of the mortgagee one payment period prior to its due date, the next annual MIP payable by the mortgagee to HUD. Such payments shall continue only so long as the contract of insurance shall remain in effect.
(b) The mortgage shall provide for such equal monthly payments by the mortgagor to the mortgagee as will amortize the ground rents, if any, and the estimated amount of all taxes, water charges, special assessments, and fire and other hazard insurance premiums, within a period ending one month prior to the dates on which the same become delinquent. The mortgage shall further provide that such payments shall be held by the mortgagee,
for the purpose of paying such items before they become delinquent. The mortgage shall also make provision for adjustments in case such estimated amounts shall prove to be more, or less, than the actual amounts so paid therefore by the mortgagor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in particular circumstances, a mortgagor may purchase required fire and hazard insurance through a consortium of affiliated institutions or related organizations or, in the case of public institutions, through required state purchasing arrangements. In such circumstances, the mortgage accrual requirement may be modified to reflect circumstances in which it is inappropriate for the mortgagee to collect monthly payments and to make payments on behalf of the mortgagor.
§ 242.32
Covenant against liens.
The mortgage shall contain a covenant against the creation by the mortgagor of any liens against the property, except for such liens as may be approved by HUD.
§ 242.33
Covenant for malpractice, fire, and other hazard insurance.
The mortgage shall contain a covenant binding the mortgagor to maintain adequate liability, fire, and extended coverage insurance on the property. The mortgage shall also contain a covenant binding the mortgagor to maintain adequate malpractice coverage. All coverage shall be acceptable to the mortgagee or HUD.
[73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.35
Mortgage lien certifications.
At initial and/or final endorsement of the mortgage note, each of the following requirements must be met:
(a) The mortgage is the first lien upon and covers all of the property used in the operation of the entire hospital;
(b) The property upon which the improvements have been made or constructed and the equipment financed with mortgage proceeds are free and clear of all liens other than the insured mortgage and such other secondary liens as may be approved by HUD;
(c) The Security Agreement and Uniform Commercial Code filings establish a first lien on the personalty of the mortgagor, including but not limited to equipment acquired with mortgage proceeds or otherwise not subject to a prior lien;
(d) The mortgagor has notified HUD in writing of all unpaid obligations in connection with the mortgage transaction, the purchase of the mortgaged property, the construction, limited rehabilitation, or substantial rehabilitation of the project, or the purchase of the equipment financed with mortgage proceeds.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008; 78 FR 8343, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.37
Mortgage prepayment.
(a)
Prepayment privilege.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section or otherwise established by HUD, the mortgage shall contain a provision permitting the mortgagor to prepay the mortgage in whole or in part upon any interest payment date, after giving the mortgagee a 30-day notice in writing in advance of its intention to so prepay. The 30-day notice may be extended with the prior written approval of HUD.
(b)
Prepayment charge.
The mortgage may contain a provision for such charge, in the event of prepayment of principal, as may be agreed upon between the mortgagor and the mortgagee, subject to the following:
(1) The mortgagor shall be permitted to prepay up to 15 percent of the original principal amount of the mortgage in any one calendar year without any such charge.
(2) Any reduction in the original principal amount of the mortgage resulting from the certification of cost, which HUD may require, shall not be construed as a prepayment of the mortgage.
(c)
Prepayment of bond-financed or GNMA-securitized mortgages.
Where the mortgage is given to secure GNMA mortgage-backed securities or a loan made by a lender that has obtained the funds for the loan by the issuance and sale of bonds or bond anticipation notes, or both, the mortgage may contain a prepayment restriction and prepayment penalty charge acceptable to
HUD as to term, amount, and conditions.
(d)
HUD override of prepayment restrictions.
In the event of a default, HUD may override any lockout, prepayment penalty, or combination of penalties in order to facilitate a partial or full refinancing of the mortgaged property and avoid a claim.
§ 242.38
Late charge.
The mortgage may provide for the collection by the mortgagee of a late charge in accordance with terms, conditions, and standards of HUD for each dollar of each payment to interest or principal more than 15 days in arrears, to cover the expense involved in handling delinquent payments. Late charges shall be separately charged to and collected from the mortgagor and shall not be deducted from any aggregate monthly payment.

# Subpart D—Endorsement for Insurance
§ 242.39
Insurance endorsement.
(a)
New construction/substantial rehabilitation.
Initial endorsement of the mortgage note shall occur before any mortgage proceeds are insured, and the time of final endorsement shall be as set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Initial endorsement.
The Commissioner shall indicate the insurance of the mortgage by endorsing the original mortgage note and identifying the section of the Act and the regulations under which the mortgage is insured and the date of insurance.
(2)
Final endorsement.
When all advances of mortgage proceeds have been made and all the terms and conditions of the commitment have been met to HUD's satisfaction, HUD shall indicate on the original mortgage note the total of all advances approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument.
(b)
Section 242/223(f) refinancing/acquisition.
(1) In cases that do not involve advances of mortgage proceeds, endorsement shall occur after all relevant terms and conditions have been satisfied, including, if applicable, completion of any limited rehabilitation, or upon assurance acceptable to the Commissioner that all limited rehabilitation will be completed by a date certain following endorsement.
(2) In cases where advances of mortgage proceeds are used to fund limited rehabilitation, endorsement shall occur as described in paragraph (a) of this section immediately above, for new construction/substantial rehabilitation.
(c)
Contract rights and obligations.
The Commissioner and the mortgagee or lender shall be bound from the date of initial endorsement by the provisions of the Contract of Mortgage Insurance stated in subpart B of part 207, which is hereby incorporated by reference into this part.
[78 FR 8343, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.40
Mortgagee certificate.
At initial endorsement, the mortgagee shall execute a Mortgagee Certificate in a form prescribed by HUD.
§ 242.41
Certification of cost requirements.
Before initial endorsement of the mortgage for insurance, the mortgagor, the mortgagee, and HUD shall enter into an agreement in form and content satisfactory to HUD for the purpose of precluding any excess of mortgage proceeds over statutory limitations. Under this agreement, the mortgagor shall disclose its relationship with the builder, including any collateral agreement, and shall agree:
(a) To execute a Certificate of Actual Costs, upon completion of all physical improvements on the mortgaged property.
(b) To apply any cost savings in accordance with the provisions below.
§ 242.42
Certificates of actual cost.
(a) The mortgagor's certificate of actual cost, in a form prescribed by HUD, shall be submitted upon completion of the physical improvements to the satisfaction of HUD and before final endorsement, except that in the case of an existing hospital that does not require substantial rehabilitation and where the commitment provides for completion of specified repairs after endorsement, a supplemental certificate of actual cost will be submitted covering the completed costs of any such repairs. The certificate shall show
the actual cost to the mortgagor, after deduction of any kickbacks, rebates, trade discounts, or other similar payments to the mortgagor, any of its officers, directors, stockholders, partners, or other entity member ownership, of construction and other costs, as prescribed by HUD.
(b) The Certificate of Actual Cost shall be verified by an independent certified public accountant or independent public accountant in a manner acceptable to HUD.
(c) Upon HUD's approval of the mortgagor's certification of actual cost, such certification shall be final and incontestable except for fraud or material misrepresentation on the part of the mortgagor.
§ 242.43
Application of cost savings.
At the sole discretion of HUD, any cost savings shall be used to:
(a) Reduce the principal amount of the mortgage and the mortgagor's cash equity contribution proportionally, unless the mortgagor elects to have a greater portion of the savings used to reduce the mortgage; and/or
(b) Fund any additional construction or substantial rehabilitation approved by HUD.

# Subpart E—Construction
§ 242.44
Construction standards.
Work designed and performed under this section shall conform to the standards adopted by HUD, which, at a minimum, shall include the “Guidelines for Construction and Equipment of Hospital and Medical Facilities,” which is regularly updated and published by the American Institute of Architects.
§ 242.45
Early commencement of work.
(a)
Site preparation.
Prior to or following the submission of an application, the mortgagor may request for good cause the commencement of certain limited site preparation for the project within legal guidelines and state law. Such work can commence only after the review of the work and concurrence by HUD, including the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79, previous participation review, and the agreement to certain conditions by the applicant. HUD will not approve such request until it has completed the environmental review under 24 CFR 242.79. The work must meet all requirements and guidelines as if it were approved for mortgage insurance and is to be accomplished at the sole risk of the mortgagor.
(b)
Construction completed prior to application.
Structures completed more than 2 years prior to application are eligible to be refinanced with insured mortgage proceeds.
(c)
Pre-commitment work.
Subsequent to submission of an application but prior to the issuance of a commitment or denial by HUD, the hospital and lender may request for good cause the commencement of certain necessary early site work and limited construction activity in connection with the improvements, within legal guidelines and state law. This work must be requested by both the hospital and the lender to be approved. Such work may be eligible to be financed with insured mortgage proceeds if the application is approved and the work complies with all specified conditions of HUD as set forth in a written agreement between the hospital and HUD. It is understood that in some cases the application submitted in order for pre-commitment work to begin may not be complete in all respects. However, at a minimum, the application shall include the approved FHA application form, the application fee (based on the amount of the total proposed insured loan), the inspection fee (based on the cost of the pre-commitment work), a project description of the pre-commitment work and its relation to the total project, and plans and specifications for the proposed pre-commitment work in sufficient detail to allow HUD to conduct its architectural and engineering review and obtain the necessary previous participation information and evidence of compliance with federal and state environmental regulations. Such work can commence only after the review of the work and concurrence by the lender and HUD, including previous participation review. HUD will not approve such request until it has completed the environmental review under 24 CFR
242.79. The work must meet all requirements and guidelines as if it were approved for mortgage insurance and is to be accomplished at the sole risk of the hospital. A request shall be accompanied by documentation required by HUD. That documentation shall include:
(1) A justification explaining the urgent and compelling circumstances that make it necessary to begin construction without waiting for the application process to run its course. The justification must specify the harm the hospital would suffer from waiting.
(2) A plan detailing how the hospital will finance the limited construction if the application for mortgage insurance is denied.
(3) A statement that financing the limited construction by means other than a HUD-insured mortgage in the event the application is denied will impose no significant financial hardship on the hospital. The statement shall be accompanied by supporting historical and projected financial data.
(4) A statement that the hospital recognizes that HUD's agreement to include the cost of the limited construction in a subsequently approved application does not in any way indicate that the application will be approved.
(5) A resolution of the governing body (or, at HUD's discretion, the executive committee of the governing body) of the mortgagor attesting to paragraphs (c)(1) through (4).
(d)
Early Start.
Subsequent to the issuance of a commitment, if the hospital and lender request the commencement of the project, the work may commence after the review and approval of the request by HUD, including the agreement by the hospital and the lender to any conditions that HUD may require. Any work undertaken prior to the initial endorsement shall be at the sole risk of the hospital.
(e)
Prepayment of inspection fee.
The hospital shall pay a non-refundable inspection fee to HUD before the work described in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section commences. The fee shall be based on the amount of the pre-commitment and/or early start work requested to be included in the insured mortgage loan.
(f)
No expressed or implied intent.
Approval to proceed under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section shall in no way be construed as indicating any intent, expressed or implied, on the part of HUD to approve, disapprove, or make any undertaking or promise whatsoever with respect to the application or with respect to any commitment for mortgage insurance. Any work under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section shall be undertaken at the sole risk and responsibility of the hospital.
§ 242.46
Insured advances—building loan agreement.
Prior to the initial endorsement of the mortgage for insurance, the mortgagor and mortgagee shall execute a building loan agreement, approved by HUD, setting forth the terms and conditions under which progress payments may be advanced during construction. To be covered by mortgage insurance, or to be included as an eligible cost, each progress payment involving mortgage proceeds and the owner's equity requirement shall be approved by HUD.
§ 242.47
Insured advances for building components stored off-site.
(a) Building components. In insured advances for building components stored off-site, the term building component shall mean any manufactured or pre-assembled part of a structure that HUD has specifically identified for incorporation into the property and has designated for off-site storage because it is of such size or weight that:
(1) Storage of the number of components required for timely construction progress at the construction site is impractical, or
(2) Weather damage or other adverse conditions prevailing at the construction site would make storage at the site impractical or unduly costly.
(b)
Storage.
(1) An insured advance may be made for up to 90 percent of the invoice value (to exclude costs of transportation and storage) of the building components stored off-site, if the components are stored at a location approved by the mortgagee and HUD.
(2) Each building component shall be adequately marked so as to be readily identifiable in the inventory of the off-
site location. Each component shall be kept together with all other building components of the same manufacturer intended for use in the same project for which insured advances have been made and separate and apart from similar units not for use in the project.
(3) Storage costs, if any, shall be borne by the contractor.
(c)
Responsibility for transportation, storage, and insurance of off-site building components.
The general contractor of the insured mortgaged property shall have the responsibility for:
(1) Insuring the components in the name of the mortgagor while in transit and storage; and
(2) Delivering or contracting for the delivery of the components to the storage area and to the construction site, including payment of freight.
(d)
Advances.
(1) Before an advance for a building component stored off-site is insured:
(i) The mortgagor shall:
(A) Obtain a bill of sale for the component;
(B) Give the mortgagee a security agreement; and
(C) File a financing statement in accordance with the Uniform Commercial Code; and
(ii) The mortgagee shall warrant to HUD that the security instruments are a first lien on the building components covered by the instruments except for such other liens or encumbrances as may be approved by HUD.
(2) Before each advance for building components stored off-site is insured, the mortgagor's architect shall certify to HUD that the components, in their intended use, comply with HUD-approved contract plans and specifications. Under those circumstances permitted by HUD in which there is no architect, compliance with the HUD-approved contract plans and specifications shall be determined by HUD.
(3) Advances may be made only for components stored off-site in a quantity required to permit uninterrupted installation at the site.
(4) At no time shall the invoice value of building components being stored off-site, for which advances have been HUD insured, represent more than 50 percent of the total estimated construction costs for the insured mortgaged project as specified in the construction contract. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence and other regulatory requirements that set bonding requirements, the percentage of total estimated construction costs insured by advances under this section may exceed 25 percent but not 50 percent if the mortgagor furnishes assurance of completion in the form of a corporate surety bond for the payment and performance each in the amount of 100 percent of the amount of the construction contract. In no event will insurance of advances for components stored off-site be made in the absence of a payment and a performance bond.
(5) No single advance that is to be insured shall be in an amount less than $10,000.
§ 242.48
Insured advances for certain equipment and long lead items.
The Commissioner may allow advances for certain pieces of equipment or other construction materials for which a manufacturer, fabricator, or other source requires an interim payment(s) in order to assure the timely manufacture or fabrication and delivery to the project site. Such advances can be made only if a bill of sale or an invoice describes the material or equipment and its completion and delivery dates in no uncertain terms, and that such displayed timetable is necessary to meet the requirements of the overall construction schedule cited in the construction contract.
§ 242.49
Funds and finances: deposits and letters of credit.
(a)
Deposits.
Where HUD requires the mortgagor to make a deposit of cash or securities, such deposit shall be with the mortgagee or a depository acceptable to the mortgagee and HUD. Any such deposit shall be held in a separate account for and on behalf of the mortgagor, and shall be the responsibility of that mortgagee or depository.
(b)
Letter of credit.
Where the use of a letter of credit is acceptable to HUD in lieu of a deposit of cash or securities, the letter of credit shall be issued to the mortgagee by a banking institution acceptable to the lender. The mortgagee shall be responsible to HUD for collection under the letter of credit. In
the event a demand for payment thereunder is not immediately met, the mortgagee shall forthwith provide a cash deposit equivalent to the undrawn balance of the letter of credit.
(c)
Mortgagee not issuer.
The mortgagee of record may not be the issuer of the letter of credit without the prior written consent of HUD.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8343, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.50
Funds and finances: off-site utilities and streets.
The Commissioner shall require assurance of completion of off-site public utilities and streets in all cases, except where a municipality or other public body has by agreement acceptable to HUD agreed to install such utilities and streets without cost to the mortgagor. Where such assurance is required, it shall be in the form of a cash escrow deposit, a letter of credit, the retention of a specified amount of mortgage proceeds by the mortgagee, or a combination thereof. In any case, the amount of deposit or retained cash (or both) must be sufficient to cover the cost of off-site utilities and streets. If a cash escrow is used, it shall be deposited with the mortgagee or with an acceptable trustee or escrow agent designated by the mortgagee. If mortgage proceeds are used, the mortgagee shall retain under terms approved by HUD, rather than disburse at the initial closing of the mortgage, a sufficient portion of the mortgage proceeds allocated to land in the project analysis. As additional assurance, HUD may also require a surety company bond or bonds.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.51
Funds and finances: Insured advances and assurance of completion.
(a) Where the estimated cost of construction or substantial rehabilitation is more than $500,000, the mortgagor shall furnish assurance of completion in the form of corporate surety bonds for payment and performance, each in the minimum amount of 100 percent of the construction contract (or Guaranteed Maximum Price, in the case of construction management) and each satisfactory to HUD.
(b) All types of assurance of completion shall be on forms approved by HUD. All surety companies executing a bond and all parties executing a personal indemnity agreement must be satisfactory to HUD.
(c) A mortgagee may prescribe more stringent requirements for assurance of completion than the minimum requirements provided for in this section.
§ 242.52
Construction contracts.
(a)
Awarding of contract.
A contract for the construction or substantial rehabilitation of a hospital shall be entered into by a mortgagor, with a builder selected by a competitive bidding procedure acceptable to HUD.
(b)
Form of contract.
The construction contract shall be: A lump sum form providing for payment of a specified amount; a construction management contract with a guaranteed maximum price, the final costs of which are subject to a certification acceptable to HUD; a design-build contract with terms and certification requirements acceptable to HUD; or such other form of contract as may be acceptable to HUD.
(c)
Competitive bidding.
A competitive bidding procedure acceptable to HUD must be used in the selection of bidders to perform work or otherwise provide service to the project, the costs of which are included in any form of construction contract cited in paragraph (b) of this section. Fixed equipment not included in the construction contract, and movable equipment, may be purchased by securing quotations or by using competitive bidding procedures.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.53
Excluded contractors.
(a) Contracts relating to the construction of the project shall not be made with any person or entity that has been excluded from participation in federal programs, including but not limited to: A general contractor, a subcontractor, or construction manager (or any firm, corporation, partnership, or association in which such contractor, subcontractor, or construction manager has a substantial interest).
Before entering into contracts with any such person or entity, owners must consult the government-wide list of excluded parties, and any list of excluded parties maintained by HUD.
(b) Contracts relating to the construction of the project shall not be made with a general contractor that has an identity of interest, as defined by HUD, with the mortgagor or mortgagee.
(c) If HUD determines that a contract has been made contrary to the requirements of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section and so notifies the mortgagee, HUD will require the contractor or construction manager to cost-certify and may require other remedial action in addition to taking enforcement action, as HUD deems appropriate.

# Subpart F—Nondiscrimination and Wage Rates
§ 242.54
Nondiscrimination.
Hospital facilities financed with mortgages insured under this part must be made available without discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin. Hospitals must be operated in compliance with all applicable civil rights laws and regulations, including 24 CFR part 200, subpart J (Equal Employment Opportunity), and the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
). Racially restrictive covenants are per se illegal and their use is prohibited. The aforesaid provisions regarding age and sex discrimination do not affect the eligibility of hospitals for women and children.
§ 242.55
Labor standards.
(a) Projects financed under this part (except under 24 CFR 242.91) must comply with the prevailing wage rates determined under the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 3141
et seq.
), and U.S. Department of Labor regulations in 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5 for compliance with labor standards laws, in accordance with section 212 of the Act, provided that supplemental loans under section 241 of the Act made in connection with loans insured under this part are subject to labor standards requirements in the same manner and to the same extent as mortgages insured under section 242 of the National Housing Act.
(b) The requirements stated in 24 CFR part 70 governing HUD waiver of Davis-Bacon prevailing wage rates for volunteers apply to hospitals with mortgages insured under this part.
(c) Each laborer or mechanic employed on any facility covered by a mortgage insured under this part (except under 24 CFR 242.91), but including a supplemental loan under section 241 of the Act made in connection with a loan insured under this part) shall receive compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked in any workweek in excess of 8 hours in any workday or 40 hours in the workweek.
(d) Project commitments, contracts, and agreements, as determined by HUD, and construction contracts and subcontracts, shall include terms, conditions, and standards for compliance with applicable requirements set forth in 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5 and section 212 of the Act.
(e) No advance under a loan or mortgage that is subject to the requirements of section 212 shall be eligible for insurance unless there is filed with the application for the advance a certificate as required by HUD certifying that the laborers and mechanics employed in construction of the project have been paid not less than the wage rates required under section 212.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8344, Feb. 5, 2013]

# Subpart G—Regulatory Agreement, Accounting and Reporting, and Financial Requirements
§ 242.56
Form of regulation.
As long as HUD is the insurer or holder of the mortgage, all mortgagors shall be regulated by HUD through the use of a regulatory agreement in a published format determined by HUD and such additional covenants and restrictions as may be determined necessary by HUD on a case-by-case basis. In addition, all mortgagors shall be subject to the provisions of 24 CFR part 24 and such other enforcement provisions as may be applicable. The mortgagor
shall be subject to monitoring by HUD and its agents and contractors, on an ongoing basis for the life of the insured mortgage to ensure against the risk of default, and the mortgagor must make its financial records available to HUD and its agents and contractors upon request. In those cases in which the hospital facility is leased as permitted by § 242.72, the provisions of this section also shall apply to the lessee.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.57
Maintenance of hospital facility.
The mortgagor shall maintain the hospital's grounds, buildings, and the equipment financed with mortgage proceeds in good repair, and shall promptly complete such repairs and maintenance as HUD considers necessary.
§ 242.58
Books, accounts, and financial statements.
(a)
Books and accounts.
The mortgagor's books and accounts relating to the operation of the physical facilities of the hospital shall be established in a manner satisfactory to HUD, and shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of HUD as long as the mortgage is insured or held by HUD.
(b)
Financial reports.
The mortgagor shall file with HUD:
(i) Annual audited financial statements in accordance with the guidance below;
(ii) Quarterly unaudited financial reports, within 40 days following the end of each quarter of the mortgagor's fiscal year;
(iii) If requested by HUD, monthly financial reports within 40 days following the end of each month;
(iv) Board-certified annual financial results within 120 days following the close of the fiscal year (if the annual audited financial statement has not yet been filed with HUD) and at such other times as HUD may designate on a case-by-case basis; and
(v) Such other financial and utilization reports as HUD may require.
(c)
Audits.
(1) Not-for-profit and state and local governments shall conduct audits in accordance with the Consolidated Audit Guide for Audits of HUD Programs (Handbook 2000.04) and2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(2) For-profit organizations shall conduct audits in accordance with the Consolidated Audit Guide for Audits of HUD Programs (Handbook 2000.04).
(d)
Changes in accounting policies.
The annual audited financial statements shall identify any changes in accounting policies and their financial effect on the balance sheet and on the income statement.
(e)
Compliance reporting.
The mortgagor shall instruct the auditor of the annual financial statement to include in its report an evaluation of the mortgagor's compliance with the Regulatory Agreement.
(f)
Books of management agents.
The books and records of management agents, lessees, operators, managers, and affiliates, as they pertain to the operations of the hospital, shall be maintained in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or Governmental Accounting Standards and shall be open and available to inspection by HUD, after reasonable prior notice, during normal office hours, at the hospital or other mutually agreeable location. Every contract executed on behalf of the hospital with any of the aforesaid parties shall include the provision that the books and records of such entities shall be properly maintained and open to inspection during normal business hours by HUD at the hospital or other mutually agreeable location.
(g)
Medicare cost reports.
Upon request, the mortgagor shall provide to HUD a copy of the Medicare Cost Report most recently submitted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services), along with related financial documents.
(h) In those cases in which the hospital facility is leased as permitted by § 242.72, the requirements pertaining to the mortgagor in § 242.58 (a) through (g) also shall pertain to the lessee.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008; 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 242.59
Inspection of facilities by Commissioner.
The mortgaged property (including buildings and equipment) and the books, records, and documents relating to the operation of the physical facilities of the hospital shall be subject to inspection and examination by HUD or its authorized representative at all reasonable times.
§ 242.61
Management.
The mortgagor shall provide for management of the hospital in a manner satisfactory to HUD.
(a)
Contract Management of Hospital.
The mortgagor shall not execute a management agreement or any other contract for management of the hospital without HUD's prior written approval. (Management of the hospital, which requires HUD's prior written approval, refers to management of the hospital not management of components within the hospital such as the hospital cafeteria or hospital pharmacy.) Any management agreement or contract for management of the hospital shall contain a provision that it shall be subject to termination without penalty and with or without cause, upon written request by HUD addressed to the mortgagor and management agent.
(b)
Principals.
HUD shall have the authority to require that any principals of the mortgagor, including but not limited to board members of a corporate entity, be removed, substituted, or terminated for cause upon written request by HUD addressed to the mortgagor.
(c)
Employees.
HUD shall have the authority to require that any key management employees of the mortgagor (as defined and determined solely by HUD) be terminated for cause upon written request by HUD addressed to the mortgagor.
(d)
Procedures upon receipt of request under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
Upon receipt of such requests under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the mortgagor shall immediately terminate said management agreement, principals, or employees within the shortest applicable period HUD determines appropriate and shall make arrangements satisfactory to HUD for ongoing proper management of the hospital.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.62
Releases of lien.
The mortgagor shall not sell, dispose of, transfer, or permit to be encumbered any security property without the prior approval of the lender and Commissioner, subject to thresholds or such other standards as HUD may establish for the approval requirement. Where there is a partial release of lien, the lender must make a determination, subject to prior review and approval by HUD, that the remaining or replacement property subject to the first lien provides adequate security for the remaining principal indebtedness.
§ 242.63
Additional indebtedness and leasing.
The mortgagor shall not enter into any long-term debt, short-term debt (including receivables or line of credit financing), equipment leases, or derivative-type transactions, except in conformance with policies and procedures established by HUD.
§ 242.64
Current and future property.
All current or future property (including personalty) of the mortgagor on or off mortgaged real estate (except that specifically restricted by donors or specifically excluded by HUD) will be considered as part of the HUD-insured hospital and subject to all provisions of the HUD regulatory agreement. All equipment acquired by the hospital following initial endorsement and at any time during the term of the loan shall become subject to the lien of the security agreement and any Uniform Commercial Code Financing Statements filed pursuant to the security agreement, unless the mortgagor specifically requests and HUD, for good cause, approves subordination of the lien of the insured mortgagee on specific personalty for specific periods of time. The first lien on the realty (as defined in the regulatory agreement and as identified in the security instrument) cannot be subordinated in whole or in part.
§ 242.65
Distribution of assets.
The Commissioner shall establish financial thresholds and procedures for the distribution of surplus cash and other assets. Surplus cash that meets the definition in 24 CFR 242.1, or cash that has been expressly approved for distribution by HUD, may be distributed to other organizations formally affiliated with the mortgagor, a parent organization with which the mortgagor is also affiliated, partners, or stockholders, in accordance with those financial thresholds and procedures set forth in the regulatory agreement. Other assets may be distributed to other organizations formally affiliated with the mortgagor, a parent organization with which the mortgagor is also affiliated, partners, or stockholders, in accordance with those financial thresholds and procedures set forth in the regulatory agreement, and in accordance with the release of lien conditions in 24 CFR 242.62, if applicable.
§ 242.66
Affiliate transactions.
Transactions with affiliates that are arms-length are permitted as specified in the Regulatory Agreement. Transactions with affiliates that are not arms-length are not permitted except with the prior written approval of HUD.
§ 242.67
New corporations, subsidiaries, affiliations, and mergers.
The mortgagor shall not establish, develop, organize, acquire, become the sole member of, or acquire an interest sufficient to require disclosure on the audited financial statements of the mortgagor, in any corporation, subsidiary, or affiliate organization other than those with which the mortgagor was affiliated as of date of application, without the prior approval of HUD. The mortgagor shall obtain HUD's written approval for all future mergers.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous Requirements
§ 242.68
Disclosure and verification of Social Security and Employer Identification Numbers.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, regarding the disclosure and verification of Social Security Numbers and Employer Identification Numbers, and Employer Identification Numbers by “applicants for and participants in” assisted mortgage and loan insurance and related programs, apply to this program.
§ 242.69
Transfer fee.
Upon application for review of a transfer of physical assets or the substitution of mortgagors, a transfer fee of 50 cents per thousand dollars of the outstanding principal balance of the mortgage shall be paid to HUD. A transfer fee is not required if both parties to the transfer transaction are not-for-profit or public organizations.
§ 242.70
Fees not required.
The payment of an application, commitment, inspection, or reopening fee shall not be required in connection with the insurance of a mortgage involving the sale by the Secretary of any property acquired under any section or title of the Act.
§ 242.72
Leasing of hospital.
Leasing of a hospital in its entirety is prohibited. Notwithstanding this prohibition, any proposal in which leasing of the entire facility is a factor due to state law prohibitions against the mortgaging of health care facilities by state entities shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. Also, leasing of a hospital that has an existing Section 242-insured loan is permitted if HUD determines that leasing is necessary to reduce the risk of default by a financially troubled hospital.
§ 242.73
Waiver of eligibility requirements for mortgage insurance.
The Secretary may insure under this part, without regard to any limitation upon eligibility contained in this subpart, any mortgage assigned to him or her in connection with payment under a contract of mortgage insurance, or executed in connection with a sale by him or her of any property previously insured under this part and acquired subsequent to a claim.
§ 242.74
Smoke detectors.
Each occupied room must include such smoke detectors as are required by law.
§ 242.75
Title requirements.
In order for the mortgaged property to be eligible for insurance, HUD shall determine that marketable title thereto is vested in the mortgagor as of the date the mortgage is filed for record. The title evidence shall be examined by HUD and the endorsement of the mortgage note for insurance shall be evidence of its acceptability.
§ 242.76
Title evidence.
Upon insurance of the mortgage, the mortgagee shall furnish to HUD a survey of the mortgage property, satisfactory to HUD, and a policy of title insurance covering the property, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. If, for reasons HUD considers to be satisfactory, title insurance cannot be furnished, the mortgagee shall furnish such evidence of title in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section as HUD may require. Any survey, policy of title insurance, or evidence of title required under this section shall be furnished without expense to HUD. The types of title evidence are:
(a) A policy of title insurance issued by a company and in a form satisfactory to HUD. The policy shall name as the insureds the mortgagee and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and their successors and assigns, as their respective interests may appear. The policy shall provide that upon acquisition of title by the mortgagee or the Secretary, it will continue to provide the same coverage as the original policy, and will run to the mortgagee or the Secretary, as the case may be.
(b) An abstract of title satisfactory to HUD, prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title, accompanied by a legal opinion satisfactory to HUD as to the quality of such title, signed by an attorney-at-law experienced in the examination of titles.
(c) A Torrens or similar title certificate.
§ 242.77
Liens.
The hospital must be free and clear of all liens other than the insured mortgage, except that the property may be subject to a lien as provided by terms and conditions established by HUD, as follows:
(a) An inferior lien made or held by a federal, state, or local government instrumentality;
(b) An inferior lien required in connection with a supplemental loan insured pursuant to section 241 of the Act;
(c) An inferior or superior lien on equipment as may be approved in connection with an equipment leasing program approved by HUD;
(d) An inferior or superior lien on accounts receivable as approved by HUD as collateral for a line of credit or other borrowing by a hospital insured under this part that has extraordinary needs such as cash flow difficulties; or
(e) Similar liens otherwise approved by HUD.
§ 242.78
Zoning, deed, and building restrictions.
The project when completed shall not violate any material zoning or deed restrictions applicable to the project site, and shall comply with all applicable building and other governmental codes, ordinances, regulations, and requirements.
§ 242.79
Environmental quality determinations and standards.
Requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 50, “Protection and Enhancement of Environmental Quality,” 24 CFR part 51, “Environmental Criteria and Standards,” and 24 CFR part 55, “Floodplain Management,” governing environmental review responsibilities (as applicable) and any additional environmental standards, reviews, or determinations required by HUD apply to this program.
§ 242.81
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
Requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 35 apply to this program.
§ 242.82
Energy conservation.
Construction, mechanical equipment, and energy and metering selections
shall provide cost-effective energy conservation in accordance with standards established by HUD.
§ 242.83
Debarment and suspension.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 24 apply to this program.
§ 242.84
Previous participation and compliance requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart H, apply to this program.
§ 242.86
Property and mortgage assessment.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart E, regarding the mortgagor's responsibility for making those investigations, analysis, and inspections it deems necessary for protecting its interests in the property apply to these programs.
§ 242.87
Certifications.
Any agreement, undertaking, statement, or certification required by HUD shall specifically state that it has been made, presented, and delivered for the purpose of influencing an official action of the FHA, and of HUD, and may be relied upon by HUD as a true statement of the facts contained therein.
§ 242.89
Supplemental loans.
A loan, advance of credit, or purchase of an obligation representing a loan or advance of credit made for the purpose of financing improvements or additions (including the refinancing of any indebtedness incurred in connection with the early commencement of work on such improvements or additions, subject to the requirements of §§ 242.15 and 242.45) to a hospital covered by a mortgage insured under this section of the Act or for a Commissioner-held mortgage, or equipment for a hospital, may be insured pursuant to the provisions of section 241 of the Act and under the provisions of this part as applicable and such additional terms and conditions as established by HUD. See subpart B of 24 CFR part 241 with respect to the contract of mortgage insurance for all loans insured under section 241 of the Act. See 24 CFR part 241, subpart C, for energy improvements.
§ 242.90
Eligibility of mortgages covering hospitals in certain neighborhoods.
(a) A mortgage financing the repair, substantial rehabilitation, or construction of a hospital located in an older declining urban area shall be eligible for insurance under this subpart, subject to compliance with the additional requirements of this section.
(b) The mortgage shall meet all of the requirements of this subpart, except such requirements (other than those relating to labor standards and prevailing wages or environmental review) as are judged to be not applicable on the basis of the following determinations to be made by HUD.
(1) That the conditions of the area in which the property is located prevent the application of certain eligibility requirements of this subpart.
(2) That the area is reasonably viable, and there is a need in the area for an adequate hospital to serve low and moderate income families.
(3) That the mortgage to be insured is an acceptable risk.
(c) Mortgages complying with the requirements of this section shall be insured under this subpart pursuant to section 223(e) of the National Housing Act. Such mortgages shall be insured under and be the obligation of the Special Risk Insurance Fund.
[72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]
§ 242.91
Eligibility of refinancing transactions.
(a)
Refinancing an FHA-insured mortgage.
A mortgage given to refinance an existing insured mortgage under Section 241 or Section 242 of the Act covering a hospital may be insured under this subpart pursuant to Section 223(a)(7) of the Act. Insurance of the new, refinancing mortgage shall be subject to the following limitations:
(1)
Principal amount.
The principal amount of the refinancing mortgage shall not exceed the lesser of:
(i) The original principal amount of the existing insured mortgage; or
(ii) The unpaid principal amount of the existing insured mortgage, to which may be added loan closing charges associated with the refinancing mortgage, and costs, as determined by
HUD, of improvements, upgrading, or additions required to be made to the property.
(2)
Debt service rate.
The monthly debt service payment for the refinancing mortgage may not exceed the debt service payment charged for the existing mortgage.
(3)
Mortgage term.
The term of the new mortgage shall not exceed the unexpired term of the existing mortgage, except that the new mortgage may have a term of not more than 12 years in excess of the unexpired term of the existing mortgage in any case in which HUD determines that the insurance of the mortgage for an additional term will inure to the benefit of the FHA Insurance Fund, taking into consideration the outstanding insurance liability under the existing insured mortgage, and the remaining economic life of the property.
(4)
Minimum loan amount.
The mortgagee may not require a minimum principal amount to be outstanding on the loan secured by the existing mortgage.
(b)
Refinancing capital debt not insured by FHA.
A mortgage given to refinance the capital debt of an existing hospital that is not insured under section 241 or section 242 of the Act may be insured under this subpart pursuant to Section 223(f) of the National Housing Act. The mortgage may be executed in connection with the purchase or refinancing of an existing hospital without substantial rehabilitation. A mortgage insured pursuant to this subpart shall meet all other requirements of this part. The FHA Commissioner shall prescribe such terms and conditions as the FHA Commissioner deems necessary to assure that:
(1) The refinancing is employed to lower the monthly debt service costs (taking into account any fees or charges connected with such refinancing) of such existing hospital;
(2) The proceeds of any refinancing will be employed only to retire the existing capital debt; pay for limited rehabilitation totaling less than 20 percent of the mortgage amount; and pay the necessary cost of refinancing on such existing hospital;
(3) Such existing hospital is economically viable; and
(4) The applicable requirements of Section 242 for certificates, studies, and statements have been met.
[78 FR 8344, Feb. 5, 2013]
§ 242.92
Minimum principal loan amount.
A mortgagee may not require, as a condition of providing a loan secured by a mortgage insured under this part, that the principal amount of the mortgage exceed a minimum amount established by the mortgagee.
§ 242.93
Amendment of regulations.
The regulations in this subpart may be amended by HUD at any time and from time to time, in whole or in part, but such amendment shall not adversely affect the interests of a mortgagee or lender under the insurance on any mortgage or loan already insured, and shall not adversely affect the interests of a mortgagee or lender on any mortgage or loan to be insured on which HUD has issued a commitment to insure.
Pt. 244

# PART 244—MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR GROUP PRACTICE FACILITIES [TITLE XI]

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements
Sec.
244.1
Eligibility requirements.
244.2
License.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
244.251
Cross-reference.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1749aaa-5); 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
36 FR 24663, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Eligibility Requirements

# Source:
61 FR 14407, Apr. 1, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 244.1
Eligibility requirements.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart A, apply to group practice facilities (title XI) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1749aaa), as amended.
§ 244.2
License.
The Commissioner shall not insure any mortgage under this part unless the appropriate licensing agency for the State, municipality or other political subdivision in which a project is or is to be located provides such assurances as the Commissioner considers necessary that the facility will comply with any applicable State or local standards and requirements for such facilities.

# Subpart B—Contract Rights and Obligations
§ 244.251
Cross-reference.
(a) All of the provisions, except § 207.258b, of part 207, subpart B of this chapter relating to mortgages insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act apply to a mortgage covering a group practice facility insured under title XI of the National Housing Act.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart all references in part 207 of this chapter to section 207 of the Act shall be construed to refer to title XI of the Act.
(c) All of the definitions in § 244.1 shall apply to this subpart. In addition as used in this part, the term
contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by the Commissioner's insurance endorsement and includes the provisions of this subpart and of the Act.
[36 FR 24663, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 50 FR 38787, Sept. 25, 1985]
Pt. 245

# PART 245—TENANT PARTICIPATION IN MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
245.5
Purpose.
245.10
Applicability of part.
245.15
Notice to tenants.

# Subpart B—Tenant Organizations
245.100
Right of tenants to organize.
245.105
Recognition of tenant organizations.
245.110
Legitimate tenant organizations.
245.115
Protected activities.
245.120
Meeting space.
245.125
Tenant organizers.
245.130
Tenants' rights not to be re-canvassed.
245.135
Enforcement.

# Subpart C—Efforts To Obtain Assistance
245.205
Efforts to obtain assistance.
245.210
Availability of information.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Requesting Approval of an Increase in Maximum Permissible Rents
245.305
Applicability of subpart.
245.310
Notice to tenants.
245.315
Materials to be submitted to HUD.
245.320
Request for increase.
245.325
Notification of action on request for increase.
245.330
Non-insured projects.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Requesting Approval of a Covered Action
245.405
Applicability of subpart.
245.410
Notice to tenants.
245.415
Submission of materials to HUD: Timing of submission.
245.416
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances.
245.417
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Conversion of residential units to a nonresidential use, or to cooperative housing or condominiums.
245.418
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Partial release of mortgage security.
245.419
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Major capital additions.
245.420
Rights of tenants to participate.
245.425
Submission of request for approval to HUD.
245.430
Decision on request for approval.
245.435
Non-insured projects: Conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715z-1b; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 245.5
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to recognize the importance and benefits of cooperation and participation of tenants in creating a suitable living environment in multifamily housing projects and in contributing to the successful operation of such projects, including their good physical condition, proper maintenance, security, energy efficiency, and control of operating costs.
[50 FR 32402, Aug. 12, 1985]
§ 245.10
Applicability of part.
(a) Except as otherwise expressly limited in this section, this part applies in its entirety to a mortgagor of any multifamily housing project that meets the following—
(1)
Project subject to HUD insured or held mortgage under the National Housing Act.
The project has a mortgage that—
(i) Has received final endorsement on behalf of the Secretary and is insured or held by the Secretary under the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701—1715z-20); and
(ii) Is assisted under:
(A) Section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1);
(B) The Section 221(d)(3) BMIR Program;
(C) The Rent Supplement Program;
(D) The Section 8 Loan Management Set-Aside Program following conversion to such assistance from the Rent Supplement Program assistance;
(2)
Formerly HUD-owned project.
The project—
(i) Before being acquired by the Secretary, was assisted under:
(A) Section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1);
(B) The Section 221(d)(3) BMIR Program;
(C) The Rent Supplement Program; or
(D) The Section 8 LMSA Program following conversion to such assistance from assistance under the Rent Supplement Program; and
(ii) Was sold by the Secretary subject to a mortgage insured or held by the Secretary and an agreement to maintain the low- and moderate-income character of the project;
(3)
State or local housing finance agency project.
The project receives assistance under section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) or the Rent Supplement Program (12 U.S.C. 1701s) administered through a state or local housing finance agency, but does not have a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act or held by the Secretary. Subject to the further limitation in paragraph (b) of this section, only the provisions of subparts A, B and C of this part, and of subpart E of this part for requests for approval of a conversion of a project from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or of a reduction in tenant utility allowances, apply to a mortgagor of such a project;
(4) The project receives project-based assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (this regulation does not cover tenant participation in PHAs that administer such project-based assistance);
(5) The project receives enhanced vouchers under the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, the provisions of the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987, or the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997, as amended;
(6) The project receives assistance under the Section 202 Direct Loan program or the Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly program; or
(7) The project receives assistance under the Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program.
(b)
Limitation for cooperative mortgagor.
Only the provisions of subparts A and C of this part apply to a mortgagor of any multifamily housing project described in paragraph (a) of this section if the mortgagor is a cooperative housing corporation or association.
(c)
Definitions.
Rent Supplement Program
means the assistance program authorized by section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s).
Section 8 LMSA Program
means the Section 8 Loan Management Set-Aside Program implemented under 24 CFR part 886, subpart A.
Section 221(d)(3) BMIR Program
means the below-market interest rate mortgage insurance program under section 221(d)(3) and the proviso of section 221(d)(5) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l(d)(3) and 1715l(d)(5)).
[61 FR 57961, Nov. 8, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 36280, June 7, 2000; 68 FR 20325, Apr. 24, 2003]
§ 245.15
Notice to tenants.
(a) Whenever a mortgagor is required under subparts D or E of this part to serve notice on the tenants of a project, the notice must be served by delivery, except, for a high-rise project,
the notice may be served either by delivery or by posting. If service is made by delivery, a copy of the notice must be delivered directly to each unit in the project or mailed to each tenant. If service is made by posting, the notice must be posted in at least three conspicuous places within each building in which the affected dwelling units are located and, during any prescribed tenant period, in a conspicuous place at the address stated in the notice where the materials in support of the mortgagor's proposed action are to be made available for inspection and copying. Posted notices must be maintained intact and in legible form during any prescribed notice period.
(b) For purposes of computing time periods following service of notice, service is effected, in the case of service by delivery, when all notices have been delivered or mailed and, in the case of service by posting, when all notices have been initially posted.
[50 FR 32402, Aug. 12, 1985, as amended at 61 FR 57961, Nov. 8, 1996]

# Subpart B—Tenant Organizations

# Source:
65 FR 36281, June 7, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 245.100
Right of tenants to organize.
The tenants of a multifamily housing project covered under § 245.10 have the right to establish and operate a tenant organization for the purpose of addressing issues related to their living environment, which includes the terms and conditions of their tenancy as well as activities related to housing and community development.
§ 245.105
Recognition of tenant organizations.
Owners of multifamily housing projects covered under § 245.10, and their agents, must:
(a) Recognize legitimate tenant organizations; and (b) Give reasonable consideration to concerns raised by legitimate tenant organizations.
§ 245.110
Legitimate tenant organizations.
A tenant organization is legitimate if it has been established by the tenants of a multifamily housing project covered under § 245.10 for the purpose described in § 245.100, and meets regularly, operates democratically, is representative of all residents in the development, and is completely independent of owners, management, and their representatives.
§ 245.115
Protected activities.
(a) Owners of multifamily housing projects covered under § 245.10, and their agents, must allow tenants and tenant organizers to conduct the following activities related to the establishment or operation of a tenant organization:
(1) Distributing leaflets in lobby areas;
(2) Placing leaflets at or under tenants' doors;
(3) Distributing leaflets in common areas;
(4) Initiating contact with tenants;
(5) Conducting door-to-door surveys of tenants to ascertain interest in establishing a tenant organization and to offer information about tenant organizations;
(6) Posting information on bulletin boards;
(7) Assisting tenants to participate in tenant organization activities;
(8) Convening regularly scheduled tenant organization meetings in a space on site and accessible to tenants, in a manner that is fully independent of management representatives. In order to preserve the independence of tenant organizations, management representatives may not attend such meetings unless invited by the tenant organization to specific meetings to discuss a specific issue or issues; and
(9) Formulating responses to owner's requests for:
(i) Rent increases;
(ii) Partial payment of claims;
(iii) The conversion from project-based paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities;
(iv) A reduction in tenant utility allowances;
(v) Converting residential units to non-residential use, cooperative housing, or condominiums;
(vi) Major capital additions; and
(vii) Prepayment of loans.
(b) In addition to the activities listed in paragraph (a) of this section, owners of multifamily housing projects covered under § 245.10, and their agents, must allow tenants and tenant organizers to conduct other reasonable activities related to the establishment or operation of a tenant organization.
(c) Owners of multifamily housing projects and their agents shall not require tenants and tenant organizers to obtain prior permission before engaging in the activities permitted under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 245.120
Meeting space.
(a) Owners of multifamily housing projects covered under § 245.10, and their agents, must reasonably make available the use of any community room or other available space appropriate for meetings that is part of the multifamily housing project when requested by:
(1) Tenants or a tenant organization and used for activities related to the operation of the tenant organization; or
(2) Tenants seeking to establish a tenant organization or collectively address issues related to their living environment.
(b) Tenant and tenant organization meetings must be accessible to persons with disabilities, unless this is impractical for reasons beyond the organization's control. If the complex has an accessible common area or areas, it will not be impractical to make organizational meetings accessible to persons with disabilities.
(c)
Fees.
An owner of a multifamily housing project covered under § 245.10 may charge a reasonable, customary and usual fee, approved by the Secretary as may normally be imposed for the use of such facilities in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Secretary, for the use of meeting space. An owner may waive this fee.
§ 245.125
Tenant organizers.
(a) A tenant organizer is a tenant or non-tenant who assists tenants in establishing and operating a tenant organization, and who is not an employee or representative of current or prospective owners, managers, or their agents.
(b) Owners of multifamily housing projects covered under § 245.10, and their agents, must allow tenant organizers to assist tenants in establishing and operating tenant organizations.
(c)
Non-tenant tenant organizers.
(1) If a multifamily housing project covered under § 245.10 has a consistently enforced, written policy against canvassing, then a non-tenant tenant organizer must be accompanied by a tenant while on the property of the multifamily housing project, except in the case of recipients of HUD Outreach and Assistance Training Grants (“OTAG”) or other direct HUD grants designed to enable recipients to provide education and outreach to tenants concerning HUD's mark-to-market program (see 24 CFR parts 401 and 402), who are conducting eligible activities as defined in the applicable Notice of Funding Availability for the grant or other effective grant document.
(2) If a multifamily housing project covered under § 245.10 has a written policy favoring canvassing, any non-tenant tenant organizer must be afforded the same privileges and rights of access as other uninvited outside parties in the normal course of operations. If the project does not have a consistently enforced, written policy against canvassing, the project shall be treated as if it has a policy favoring canvassing.
§ 245.130
Tenants' rights not to be re-canvassed.
A tenant has the right not to be re-canvassed against his or her wishes regarding participation in a tenant organization.
§ 245.135
Enforcement.
(a) Owners of housing identified in § 245.10, and their agents, as well as any principals thereof (as defined in 2 CFR part 2424), who violate any provision of this subpart so as to interfere with the organizational and participatory rights of tenants, may be liable for sanctions under 2 CFR part 2424. Such sanctions may include:
(1)
Debarment.
A person who is debarred is prohibited from future participation in federal programs for a period of time. The specific rules and regulations relating to debarment are found at 2 CFR part 2424.
(2)
Suspension.
Suspension is a temporary action with the same effect as debarment, to be taken when there is adequate evidence that a cause for debarment may exist and immediate action is needed to protect the public interest. The specific rules and regulations relating to suspension are found at 2 CFR part 2424.
(3)
Limited Denial of Participation.
An LDP generally excludes a person from future participation in the federal program under which the cause arose. The duration of an LDP is generally up to 12 months. The specific rules and regulations relating to LDPs are found at 2 CFR part 2424, subpart J.
(b) These sanctions may also apply to affiliates (as defined in 2 CFR part 2424) of these persons or entities.
(c) The procedures in 2 CFR part 2424 shall apply to actions under this subpart.
[72 FR 73495, Dec. 27, 2007]

# Subpart C—Efforts To Obtain Assistance
§ 245.205
Efforts to obtain assistance.
(a) Mortgagors subject to the requirements of this subpart shall not interfere with the efforts of tenants to obtain rent subsidies or other public assistance.
(b) A mortgagor subject to the requirements of this subpart who is a party to a rent supplement contract under section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s), a rental assistance payments contract under part 236, subpart D, of this chapter, or a Housing Assistance Payments Contract under 24 CFR part 886 shall not refuse to make assistance under such contract available to an existing tenant who is eligible therefor, provided that sufficient contract and budget authority and contract units are available under the contract. However, this provision shall not be deemed to require the mortgagor to give priority in the allocation of any such available assistance to an existing tenant instead of an eligible applicant on the mortgagor's waiting list or otherwise to supersede tenant selection procedures which are not otherwise inconsistent with applicable program regulation or instructions.
(c) Subject to the provisions of any contract made in connection with the purchase of a multifamily housing project owned by the Secretary, this section shall not be deemed to require a mortgagor subject to the requirement of this subpart to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract pursuant to 24 CFR part 982 for the benefit of an existing tenant who obtains a Certificate of Family Participation.
[48 FR 28437, June 22, 1983. Redesignated at 50 FR 32403, Aug. 12, 1985, as amended at 61 FR 57961, Nov. 8, 1996]
§ 245.210
Availability of information.
A mortgagor subject to the requirements of this subpart shall make available to tenants any information concerning rent subsidies or other public assistance that is prepared and distributed by HUD to the project for the purpose of distribution to tenants.
[48 FR 28437, June 22, 1983. Redesignated at 50 FR 32403, Aug. 12, 1985]

# Subpart D—Procedures for Requesting Approval of an Increase in Maximum Permissible Rents

# Source:
50 FR 32403, Aug. 12, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 245.305
Applicability of subpart.
(a) The requirements of this subpart apply to any request by a mortgagor, as provided by § 245.10, for HUD approval of an increase in maximum permissible rents.
(b) For purposes of this subpart, an increase in utility charges paid directly by the tenant does not constitute an increase in rents.
§ 245.310
Notice to tenants.
(a) At least 30 days before submitting a request to HUD for approval of an increase in maximum permissible rents, the mortgagor must notify the tenants of the proposed rent increase. Copies of the notice must be served on the tenants as provided in § 245.15. The notice
must contain the following information in the following format or an equivalent format:

# Notice to Tenants of Intention To Submit a Request to HUD for Approval of an Increase in Maximum Permissible Rents
Date of Notice
Take notice that on [date] we plan to submit a request for approval of an increase in the maximum permissible rents for [name of apartment complex] to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The proposed increase is needed for the following reasons:
1.
2.
3.
The rent increases for which we have requested approval are:
Bedrooms
Present
rent
1
Basic
Market
Proposed
increase
1
Basic
Market
Proposed
rent
1
Basic
Market
5
$
$
$
$
$
0
1
2
3
4
1
Separate columns for basic and market rent should be used only for projects assisted under sec. 236 of the National Housing Act. In addition, in projects with more than 1 type of apartment having the same number of bedroom but different rents, each type should be listed separately.
A copy of the materials that we are submitting to HUD in support of our request will be available during normal business hours at [address] for a period of 30 days from the date of service of this notice for inspection and copying by tenants of [name of apartment complex] and, if the tenants wish, by legal or other representatives acting for them individually or as a group.
During a period of 30 days from the date of service of this notice, tenants of [name of apartment complex] may submit written comments on the proposed rent increase to us at [address]. Tenant representatives may assist tenants in preparing those comments. (If, at HUD's request or otherwise , we make any material change during the comment period in the materials available for inspection and copying, we will notify the tenants of the change or changes, and the tenants will have a period of 15 days from the date of service of this additional notice (or the remainder of any applicable comment period, if longer) in which to inspect and copy the materials as changed and to submit comments on the proposed rent increase). These comments will be transmitted to HUD, along with our evaluation of them and our request for the increase. You may also send a copy of your comments directly to HUD at the following address: United States Department of Housing and Urban Development [address of local HUD field office with jurisdiction over rent increases for the project], Attention: Director, Housing Management Division, Re: Project No. [Name of Apartment Complex].
HUD will approve, adjust upward or downward, or disapprove the proposed rent increase upon reviewing the request and comments. When HUD advises us in writing of its decision on our request, you will be notified. If the request is approved, any allowable increase will be put into effect only after a period of at least 30 days from the date you are served with that notice and in accordance with the terms of existing leases.
[Name of mortgagor or managing agent]
(b) The mortgagor must comply with all representations made in the notice. The materials to be made available to tenants for inspection and copying are those specified in § 245.315.
§ 245.315
Materials to be submitted to HUD.
When the notice referred to in § 245.310 is served on the tenants, the mortgagor must send to the local HUD office copies of the following documents described in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as specified by the local HUD office:
(a) Documents to be submitted under profit and loss approach:
(1) A copy of the notice to tenants;
(2) An annual Statement of Profit and Loss, Form HUD-92410, covering the project's most recently ended accounting year (this statement must have been audited by an independent public accountant if the project is required by HUD to prepare audited financial statements), and Form HUD-92410 for the intervening period since the date of the last annual statement if more than four months have elapsed since that date;
(3) A narrative statement of the reasons for the requested increase in maximum permissible rents; and
(4) An estimate of the reasonably anticipated increases in project operating costs that will occur within twelve months of the date of submission of materials under this section.
(5) A status report on the project's implementation of its current Energy Conservation Plan.
(b) Documents to be submitted under the forward-budget approach:
(1) A cover letter summarizing the reasons a rent increase is needed;
(2) A copy of the notice to tenants;
(3) A rent increase worksheet providing an income and expense budget for the 12 months following the anticipated effective date of the proposed rent increase;
(4) A brief statement explaining the basis for the expense lines on the rent increase worksheet;
(5) A partially completed Rent Schedule, Form HUD-92458;
(6) If the tenants receive utility allowances, the mortgagor's recommended utility allowance for each unit type and brief statement explaining the basis for the recommended increase; and
(7) A status report on the project's implementation of its current Energy Conservation Plan.
(The information collection requirements in paragraph (a) of this section were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0310 and the information collection requirements in paragraph (b) were approved under control number 2502-0324)
§ 245.320
Request for increase.
Upon expiration of the period for tenant comments required in the notice format in § 245.310 and after review of the comments submitted to the mortgagor, the mortgagor must submit to the local HUD office, in addition to the materials enumerated in § 245.315 and any revisions thereto, the request for an increase in the maximum permissible rents, together with the following:
(a) Copies of all written comments submitted by the tenants to the mortgagor;
(b) The mortgagor's evaluation of the tenants' comments with respect to the request;
(c) A certification by the mortgagor that:
(1) It has complied with all of the requirements of this subpart;
(2) The copies of the materials submitted in support of the proposed increase were located in a place reasonably convenient to tenants in the project during normal business hours and that requests by tenants to inspect the materials, as provided for in the notice, were honored;
(3) All comments received from tenants were considered by the mortgagor in making its evaluation; and
(4) Under the penalties and provisions of title 18 U.S.C., section 1001, the statements contained in this request and its attachments have been examined by me and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, are true, correct, and complete.
§ 245.325
Notification of action on request for increase.
(a) When processing a request for an increase in maximum permissible rents, HUD shall take into consideration reasonably anticipated increases in project operating costs that will occur (1) within 12 months of the date of submission of materials to HUD under § 245.315(a) (profit and loss approach) or (2) within 12 months of the anticipated effective date of the proposed rent increase for submissions under § 245.315(b) (forward-budget approach).
(b) After HUD has considered the request for an increase in rents, has found that it meets the requirements of § 245.320, and has made its determination to approve, adjust upward or downward, or disapprove the request, it will furnish the mortgagor with a written statement of the reasons for approval, adjustment upward or downward, or disapproval. The mortgagor must make the reasons for approval, adjustment, or disapproval known to the tenants, by service of notice on them as provided in § 245.15.
§ 245.330
Non-insured projects.
(a) In the case of a proposed rent increase for a project assisted under section 236 of the National Housing Act or section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, but which does not have a mortgage insured by HUD or held by the Secretary, the provisions of this section and of §§ 245.305 through 245.320 shall apply to the mortgagor (project owner), except that—
(1) The notice format prescribed in § 245.310 must be modified to reflect the procedural changes made by this section;
(2) The material (including tenant comments) required to be submitted to HUD under §§ 245.315 and 245.320 must be submitted to the State or local agency administering the section 236 assistance or rent supplement assistance contracts, rather than to HUD. An equivalent State or local agency form or standard accounting form may be substituted for the Statement of Profit and Loss, Form HUD-92410 required under § 245.315(a)(2), if approved by the local HUD office; and
(3) The State or local agency must certify that the mortgagor has complied with the requirements of §§ 245.310, 245.315, 245.320, and 245.325.
(b) After the State or local agency has considered the request for an increase in maximum permissible rents that meets the requirements of § 245.320 (including consideration of anticipated cost increases, as provided in § 245.325(a)), it must make a determination to approve, adjust upward or downward, or disapprove the request. If the agency determines to approve or adjust the request, it must submit to the appropriate local HUD office the mortgagor's requests for approval of an increase in maximum permissible rents, along with the comments of the tenants and the mortgagor's evaluation of the comments, and must certify to HUD that the mortgagor is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart. HUD shall review the agency's determination and certification and, within 30 days, of their submission to HUD, notify the agency of its approval, adjustment upward or downward, or disapproval of the proposed rent increase. HUD will not unreasonably withhold approval of a rent increase approved by the State or local agency.
(c) If the agency determines to disapprove the request, there is no HUD review of the agency's determination.
(d) The agency must notify the mortgagor of the final disposition of the request, and it must furnish the mortgagor with a written statement of the reasons for its approval, adjustment, or disapproval. The mortgagor must make the reasons for approval, adjustment or disapproval known to the tenants, by service of notice on them as provided in § 245.15.

# Subpart E—Procedures for Requesting Approval of a Covered Action

# Source:
61 FR 57962, Nov. 8, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 245.405
Applicability of subpart.
The requirements of this subpart apply to any request by a mortgagor, as provided by § 245.10, for HUD approval of one or more of the following covered actions:
(a) Conversion of a project from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities, or a reduction in tenant utility allowances.
(b) Conversion of residential units in a multifamily housing project to a nonresidential use or to condominiums, or the transfer of the project to a cooperative housing mortgagor corporation or association. Conversion of a project to a cooperative or of a portion of a project to nonresidential use does not constitute a change of use requiring mortgagee approval.
(c) A partial release of mortgage security. The requirements of this subpart, however, do not apply to any release of property from a mortgage lien with respect to a utility easement or a public taking of such property by condemnation or eminent domain.
(d) Making major capital additions to the project. For the purposes of this subpart, the term “major capital additions” includes only those capital improvements that represent a substantial addition to the project. Upgrading or replacing existing capital components of the project does not constitute a major capital addition to the project.
§ 245.410
Notice to tenants.
At least 30 days before submitting a request to HUD for approval of an action described in § 245.405, the mortgagor must serve notice of the proposed covered action on the project tenants, as provided in § 245.15. The notice shall state that—
(a) The mortgagor intends to submit a request to HUD for approval of the covered action or actions specified in the notice;
(b) The tenants have the right to participate as provided in § 245.420, and
what those rights are, including the address at which the materials required to be made available for inspection and copying under that section are to be kept;
(c) Tenant comments on the proposed covered action may be sent to the mortgagor at a specified address or directly to the local HUD office, and comments sent to the mortgagor will be transmitted to HUD, along with the mortgagor's evaluation of them, when the request for HUD's approval is submitted;
(d) HUD will approve or disapprove the proposed action, based upon its review of the information submitted and all tenant comments received. In the case of a proposed reduction in tenant-paid utilities, the notice must also state that HUD may adjust the proposed reduction upward or downward;
(e) In the case of a proposed conversion of residential units, partial release of mortgage security, or major capital additions to the project, the proposed action may require the owner to request HUD approval of a rent increase; and
(f) The mortgagor will notify the tenants of HUD's decision and it will not begin to effect any approved action (in accordance with the terms of existing leases) until at least 30 days from the date of service of the notification.
§ 245.415
Submission of materials to HUD: Timing of submission.
(a)
Initial submission.
The mortgagor must submit the materials applicable to the covered action, as specified in §§ 245.416 through 245.419, to the local HUD office when the notice required under § 245.410 is served on the tenants.
(b)
Subsequent submission.
If additional notice under § 245.420(c) is required, the mortgagor must submit to HUD any changes to the materials required under §§ 245.416 through 245.419 when the notice required under § 245.420(c) is served on the tenants.
§ 245.416
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances.
In the case of a conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances, the mortgagor must submit the following materials to the local HUD office:
(a) A copy of the notice to tenants;
(b) In the case of a proposed conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities—
(1) A statement indicating:
(i) The type of utility or utilities involved;
(ii) The number of units in the project by type and size;
(iii) The average utility consumption data by unit type and size for comparable projects, and utility rate information, as obtained from the utility supplier;
(iv) The estimated monthly cost of the utilities to be paid by the tenants by unit type and size, based upon the consumption data and rate information described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section;
(v) The monthly cost for the past year of paying for the utility or utilities involved on a project basis (actual cost) and by unit type and size (estimated breakdown);
(vi) An estimate of the cost of conversion, as obtained from the utility supplier or from bids from contractors;
(vii) The source and terms of financing for the conversion (to the extent known); and
(viii) The estimated effect of the conversion on the total housing costs of the tenants by unit type and size, taking into account the estimated cost of conversion (including the cost of its financing), the estimated monthly cost of utilities to be paid by the tenants by unit type and size, the proposed utility allowances, and the estimated change in the rents paid to the mortgagor resulting from the conversion; and
(2) A copy of the portion of the project's Energy Conservation Plan which addresses the cost-effectiveness determination associated with converting the project to tenant-paid utilities; and
(c) In the case of a proposed reduction in tenant utility allowances, a statement indicating the information described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(iii) and (b)(1)(iv) of this
section, the utility allowances proposed for reduction, and a justification of the proposed reduction.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0310)
§ 245.417
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Conversion of residential units to a nonresidential use, or to cooperative housing or condominiums.
In the case of a conversion of residential units to a nonresidential use, or to cooperative housing or condominiums, the mortgagor must submit the following materials to the local HUD office in accordance with §§ 245.415 and 245.419:
(a) In the case of a proposed conversion of residential rental units to nonresidential use:
(1) A statement describing the proposed conversion;
(2) A statement describing the estimated effect of the proposed conversion on the value of the project, the project rent schedule, the number of dwelling units in the project, a list of the units to be converted and their occupancy, the amount of subsidy available to the project, and the project income and expenses (including property taxes);
(3) A statement assessing the compatibility of the proposed nonresidential use with the residential character of the project;
(4) Written approval of the mortgagee if required;
(5) An undertaking by the mortgagor to pay all relocation costs that may be required by HUD for tenants required to vacate the project because of the conversion; and
(6) A copy of the notice to tenants.
(b) In the case of a proposed transfer of the project to a cooperative housing mortgagor corporation or association (conversion of residential rental units to residential cooperative housing), the materials specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section and the following additional materials:
(1) An estimate of the demand for cooperative housing, including an estimate of the number of present tenants interested in purchasing cooperative housing;
(2) Estimates of downpayments and monthly carrying charges that will be required; and
(3) Copies of proposed organizational documents, including By-Laws, Articles of Incorporation, Subscription Agreement, Occupancy Agreement, and Sale Document.
(c) In the case of a proposed conversion of residential rental units to condominium units, the materials specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(4), and (a)(6) of this section and the following additional materials:
(1) An estimate of the demand for condominium housing, including an estimate of the number of present tenants interested in purchasing units;
(2) Estimates of downpayments, monthly mortgage payments and condominium association fees that will be required; and
(3) A list of the units to be converted and their occupancy.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0310)
§ 245.418
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Partial release of mortgage security.
In the case of a partial release of mortgage security, the mortgagor must submit the following materials to the local HUD office:
(a) A statement describing the portion of the property that is proposed to be released and the transaction requiring the release;
(b) A statement describing the estimated effect of the proposed release on the value of the project, the number of dwelling units in the project, the project income and expenses (including property taxes), the amount of subsidy available to the project, and the project rent schedule;
(c) A statement describing the proposed use of the property to be released and the persons who will have responsibility for the operation and maintenance of that property, and assessing the compatibility of that use with the residential character of the project;
(d) A statement describing the proposed use of any proceeds to be received by the mortgagor as a result of the release; and
(e) A copy of the notice to tenants.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0310)
§ 245.419
Initial submission of materials to HUD: Major capital additions.
In the case of major capital additions, the mortgagor must submit the following materials to the local HUD office:
(a) The general plans and sketches of the proposed capital additions;
(b) A statement describing the estimated effect of the proposed capital additions on the value of the project, the project income and expenses (including property taxes), and the project rent schedule;
(c) A statement describing how the proposed capital additions will be financed and the effect, if any, of that financing on the tenants;
(d) A statement assessing the compatibility of the proposed capital additions with the residential character of the project; and
(e) A copy of the notice to tenants.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0310)
§ 245.420
Rights of tenants to participate.
(a) The tenants (including any legal or other representatives acting for tenants individually or as a group) must have the right to inspect and copy the materials that the mortgagor is required to submit to HUD pursuant to § 245.415, for a period of 30 days from the date on which the notice required under § 245.410 is served on the tenants. During this period, the mortgagor must provide a place (as specified in the notice) reasonably convenient to tenants in the project where tenants and their representatives can inspect and copy these materials during normal business hours.
(b) The tenants have the right during this period to submit written comments on the proposed conversion to the mortgagor and to the local HUD office. Tenant representatives may assist tenants in preparing these comments.
(c) If the mortgagor, whether at HUD's request or otherwise, makes any material change during a tenant comment period in the materials submitted to HUD pursuant to § 245.415, the mortgagor must notify the tenants of the change, in the manner provided in § 245.15, and make the materials as changed available for inspection and copying at the address specified in the notice for this purpose. The tenants have a period of 15 days from the date of service of this additional notice (or the remainder of any applicable comment period, if longer) in which to inspect and copy the materials as changed and to submit comments on the proposed covered action, before the mortgagor may submit its request to HUD for approval of the covered action.
§ 245.425
Submission of request for approval to HUD.
Upon completion of the tenant comment period, the mortgagor must review the comments submitted by tenants and their representatives and prepare a written evaluation of the comments. The mortgagor must then submit the following materials to the local HUD office:
(a) The mortgagor's written request for HUD approval of the covered action;
(b) Copies of all written tenant comments;
(c) The mortgagor's evaluation of the tenant comments on the proposed conversion or reduction;
(d) A certification by the mortgagor that it has complied with all of the requirements of § 245.410, § 245.415, §§ 245.416 through 245.419, as applicable, § 245.420, and this section; and
(e) Such additional materials as HUD may have specified in writing.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0310)
§ 245.430
Decision on request for approval.
(a) After considering the mortgagor's request for approval and the materials submitted in connection with the request, HUD must notify the mortgagor in writing of its approval or disapproval of the proposed covered action, including, if applicable, its adjustment upward or downward of the proposed reduction in tenant-paid utilities. HUD must provide its reasons for its determination.
(b) The mortgagor must notify the tenants of HUD's decision in the manner provided in § 245.15. If HUD has approved the proposed covered action, the notice must state:
(1) The effective date of the covered action (which must be at least 30 days from the date of service of the notice and in accordance with the terms of existing leases);
(2) In the case of HUD's approval of a conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances, the amount of the rent to be paid to the mortgagor and the utility allowance for each unit; and
(3) In the case of HUD's approval of a conversion of residential units in a multifamily housing project to a nonresidential use or the transfer of the project to a cooperative housing mortgagor corporation or association, which residential rental units are to be converted and whether the conversion is to nonresidential use or to cooperative or condominium units.
§ 245.435
Non-insured projects: Conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances.
(a) In the case of a proposed conversion from project-paid utilities to tenant-paid utilities or a reduction in tenant utility allowances involving a project that is assisted under section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) or section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) but that does not have a mortgage insured by HUD or held by the Secretary, the provisions of this section and of §§ 245.405 through 245.425 apply to the mortgagor (project owner), except that—
(1) The notice to tenants required under § 245.410 must be modified to reflect the procedural changes made by this section;
(2) The materials (including tenant comments) required to be submitted to HUD under §§ 245.415 and 245.425 must be submitted to the State or local agency administering the Section 236 assistance or rent supplement assistance contracts, rather than to HUD; and
(3) The State or local agency must certify that the mortgagor has complied with the requirements of §§ 245.410, 245.415, 245.416, 245.420, and 245.425.
(b) After the State or local agency has considered the request for approval of a conversion or reduction that meets the requirements of § 245.425, it must make a determination to approve or disapprove the conversion, or to approve, adjust upward or downward, or disapprove the reduction. If the agency determines to approve the conversion or reduction (as originally proposed or as adjusted), it must submit to the appropriate local HUD office the mortgagor's request for approval of the conversion or reduction, along with the comments of the tenants and the mortgagor's evaluation of the comments, and must certify to HUD that the mortgagor is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart. HUD must review the agency's determination and certification and notify the agency of its approval or disapproval of the proposed conversion or of its approval, adjustment upward or downward, or disapproval of the proposed reduction. HUD will not unreasonably withhold approval of a conversion or reduction approved by the State or local agency.
(c) If the agency determines to disapprove the conversion or reduction, there is no HUD review of the agency's determination.
(d) The agency must notify the mortgagor of the final disposition of the request, and it must furnish the mortgagor with a written statement of the reasons for its approval or disapproval. The mortgagor must make the reasons for approval or disapproval known to the tenants, by service of notice on them as provided in § 245.15. If the agency has approved the proposed conversion or a reduction, the notice must set forth the information prescribed in § 245.430(b) (1) and (2).
Pt. 246

# PART 246—LOCAL RENT CONTROL

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
246.1
Scope and effect of regulations.

# Subpart B—Unsubsidized Insured Projects
246.4
Applicability.
246.5
Rental charges.
246.6
Initiation.
246.7
Notice to tenants.
246.8
Materials to be submitted to HUD in support of preemption request.
246.9
Request for preemption.
246.10
HUD procedures.
246.11
Notification of action on preemption request.
246.12
Preemption of prospective term of lease.

# Subpart C—Subsidized Insured Projects
246.20
Applicability.
246.21
Rental charges.
246.22
Procedures.

# Subpart D—HUD-Owned Projects
246.30
Rental charges.
246.31
Procedures.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 246.1
Scope and effect of regulations.
(a) The regulation of rents for a project coming within the scope of “Subpart B—Unsubsidized Insured Projects” is preempted under these regulations only when the Department determines that the delay or decision of the local rent control board, or other authority regulating rents pursuant to state or local law (hereinafter referred to as board) jeopardizes the Department's economic interest in a project covered by that subpart. The regulation of rents for projects coming within the scope of “Subpart C—Subsidized Insured Projects” is preempted in its entirety by the promulgation of these regulations. The regulation of rents for projects coming within the scope of “Subpart D—HUD-Owned Projects” rests within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Department.
(b) Any state or local law, ordinance, or regulation is without force and effect insofar as it purports to regulate rents of: (1) Projects for which a determination of preemption has been made pursuant to subpart B, or (2) projects coming within the scope of subpart C or D. Compliance with such law, ordinance, or regulation shall not be required as a condition of, or prerequisite to, the remedy of eviction, and any law, ordinance, or regulation which purports to require such compliance is similarly without force and effect.
(c) It is the purpose of the Department that these regulations shall bar all actions of a board that would in any way frustrate the purpose or effect of these regulations or that would in any way delay, prevent or interfere with the implementation of any increase in rental charges approved by HUD.
(d) These regulations may be offered as a defense to a proceeding by whomever initiated, which may be brought or threatened to be brought against any owner, mortgagor or managing agent of a project subject to these regulations who demands, receives or retains, or seeks to demand, receive or retain, rental charges approved by HUD, or as a basis for declaratory, injunctive or other relief against any person or agency, public or private, who attempts to enforce, or threatens to enforce, any state or local law, ordinance, or regulation which is without force and effect by reason of this regulation.
(e) This part applies to mortgages insured under the National Housing Act. It does not apply to mortgages insured under section 542(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1707).
[40 FR 49318, Oct. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 58 FR 64038, Dec. 3, 1993; 59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994]

# Subpart B—Unsubsidized Insured Projects

# Source:
44 FR 58504, Oct. 10, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984.
§ 246.4
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all projects with mortgages insured or held by HUD, except those to which subpart C applies.
[40 FR 49318, Oct. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 246.5
Rental charges.
The Department will generally not interfere in the regulation of rents by a rent control board or agency constituted under State or local laws (hereinafter referred to as board) for
unsubsidized projects with mortgages insured or held by HUD. However, HUD will preempt the regulation of rents, together with any board regulations which require the mortgagor to offer a lease for a term in excess of one year, under certain conditions. This preemption may occur for such a project when the Department determines that the delay or decision of a board prevents the mortgagor from achieving a level of residential income necessary to maintain and operate adequately the project, which includes sufficient funds to meet the financial obligations under the mortgage.”
§ 246.6
Initiation.
When a mortgagor determines that the permitted increase in rents as prescribed by the board will not provide a rent level necessary to maintain and operate adequately the project, and the mortgagor elects to request preemption under this subpart, it shall:
(a) File an application for whatever relief or redetermination is permitted under the State or local law and;
(b) Notify: (1) The tenants in accordance with § 246.7 of this subpart, (2) the appropriate HUD office pursuant to § 246.8, and (3) the board of the mortgagor's intention to file a request for preemption of local rent control regulation pursuant to the provisions of regulations in this subpart. This action may be taken if either the board's written decision is unacceptable to the mortgagor or no written decision is received from the board within 30 days of the mortgagor's request under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 246.7
Notice to tenants.
At least 30 days before filing a formal request to HUD for preemption of local rent control regulations, the mortgagor shall notify the tenants of its intention to so file. Copies of the Notice shall be:
(a) Delivered directly or by mail to each tenant; and
(b) Posted in at least 3 conspicuous places within each structure or building in which the affected dwelling units are located.
The Notice shall contain the addresses where the materials, which constitute a complete submission as required by § 246.8 in support of the proposed preemption request, are to be made available to tenants as well as the required information in the following equivalent format:

# Notice to Tenants of Intention To File a Request to HUD for Preemption of Local Rent Control Regulations
Date of Notice
Take notice that on (Date) we requested the (Name) board to review our application for redetermination of permitted rents.
Take further notice that on (Date), if the (Name) board fails to approve an income level necessary to maintain and operate adequately the project, or to act upon our request, we plan to file a request for preemption of local rent control regulations for (Name of Apartment Complex) with the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) which will result in an increase in your rental rate as provided within the terms of your lease. The requested preemption action is supported by the following:
(1) HUD approved Gross Potential Income: Year approved, __, $_____.
(2) Current Total Residential Rents Allowed by Local Rent Control Board, $_____.
(3) Projected Total Annual Residential Rents Allowable Under Local Board Regulations 6 Months After Date of this Notice, $_____.
(4) Income Required to Operate Project as Supported by Profit and Loss Statement Being Submitted to HUD, $_____.
Copies of the materials that we intend to submit to HUD in support of our request will be available during normal business hours as well as one evening a week after business hours which will be (Day) at (Address) for a period of 30 days from the date of this Notice. The materials may be inspected and copied by tenants of (Name of Apartment Complex and HUD Project No.) and if the tenants wish, by legal or other representatives duly authorized in writing to act for one or more of the tenants.
During a period of 30 days from the date of this notice, tenants of (Name of Apartment Complex and HUD Project No.) may submit written comments on the proposed preemption request to us at (Address). Tenant representatives may assist tenants in preparing those comments. The inspection and comment period will be extended as necessary to (a) assure a 30-day comment period on a complete mortgagor's submission and (b) to allow at least 5 days to comment on any written decision made by the board, if the decision is received by the mortgagor on or before the expiration of the thirty-day period and it was not available to the tenants during the first 25 days of the 30-day period. These comments will be transmitted to HUD,
along with our evaluation of them and our preemption request. You may also send a copy of your comments directly to HUD at the following address: United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, (address of local HUD field office with jurisdiction over preemption of rents for the project) Attention: Director, Housing Re: (Project No.) and (Name of Apartment Complex). HUD will approve or disapprove the preemption request in whole or in part upon reviewing the materials and comments. When HUD advises us in writing of its decision on our request, you will be notified at least 30 days before any change in the rental structure is put into effect, in accordance with the terms of existing leases.
(Name of mortgagor or managing agent)
The mortgagor shall comply with all representations made in this Notice.
§ 246.8
Materials to be submitted to HUD in support of preemption request.
(a) After posting or delivery of the Notice as required by § 246.7, the mortgagor shall immediately send HUD notification of its intention to file a preemption request, to include:
(1) The written Notice to the tenants, which will state the date of its posting and distribution.
(2) An annual Statement of Profit and Loss, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, audited by an independent public accountant and covering the most recently ended accounting year, and if more than four months have elapsed since the date of the Profit and Loss Statement, an unaudited accrual Profit and Loss Statement on a form prescribed by the Commissioner for the intervening period since the date of the annual statement, with the mortgagor's certification as to its accuracy.
(3) A certified statement which provides a separate breakdown for the percentage of vacancies for the present and previous year.
(4) A certified statement which provides a separate breakdown of the actual rent loss due to nonpayment of rent for the past 2 years.
(5) A certified statement which provides a separate breakdown of rent loss due to tenant turnover for the past 2 years.
(6) A certified statement covering known approved rate or cost increases not yet experienced by the project which can be documented by the following:
(i) Tax rates or appraisals,
(ii) Utility rates,
(iii) Contracts for employees or services,
(iv) Insurance, and
(7) A certified statement covering known decreases of rates or costs not yet experienced by the project which have been approved and can be documented as follows:
(i) Tax rates or appraisals,
(ii) Utility rates,
(iii) Contracts for employees or services,
(iv) Insurance.
If there are none, the mortgagor must so certify.
(8) A copy of the full application to the board with supporting documentation.
(b) The local HUD office shall review the mortgagor's submission promptly upon receipt, to ascertain that it is complete as required by paragraph (a) of this section. Should the submission be found to be incomplete, the local HUD office shall notify the mortgagor within 48 hours of the review of its determination that further material is necessary to constitute a complete submission as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) When the submission is complete, the HUD office shall hold the mortgagor's submission as specified in paragraph (a) of this section in abeyance until a preemption request is received pursuant to § 246.9.
(d) If the mortgagor subsequently resubmits any change to the submission as described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (7) of this section, it will be required to provide the tenants with an additional 30 days to comment.
§ 246.9
Request for preemption.
(a) Upon expiration of the period for tenant comments required by this rule and after review of the comments submitted to it, the mortgagor may submit its request for preemption. That request must include the following:
(1) A certification by the mortgagor following the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Copies of all written comments submitted by the tenants to the mortgagor;
(3) The mortgagor's evaluation of the tenant's comments with respect to the request; and
(4) The board's decision or a statement from the mortgagor certifying that a decision from the board has not been received.
(b) The certification of the mortgagor as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall include the following:
(1) That the Notice required by § 246.7 was given pursuant to the provisions of that section;
(2) That the mortgagor has taken reasonable steps to assure that the substance of the Notice has been conveyed to each resident household, and that the mortgagor exercised its best efforts to assure that the posted Notices were maintained intact and in legible form for the specified thirty (30) days;
(3) That: (i) The copies of the materials submitted in support of the preemption request were located in a place reasonably convenient to tenants in the project during normal business hours and at least one evening a week after business hours, and (ii) that requests by tenants to inspect such materials, as provided for in the Notice, were honored;
(4) That copies of all comments received from the tenants were considered and are being transmitted to HUD together with the certifications; and
(5) A statement that “under the penalties and provisions of title 18 U.S.C., section 1001, the statements contained in this application and its attachments have been examined by me and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, are true, correct, and complete.”
(c) Should the mortgagor receive a delayed decision from the board after filing its preemption request, HUD shall be informed immediately and furnished with a copy of the board's decision.
§ 246.10
HUD procedures.
(a) The local HUD office will review the information submitted by the mortgagor together with the decision of the board, if any. The local HUD office will, if it finds that the delay or decision of the board fails to provide adequate residential income to protect the Department's economic interest in the projects and the board will not modify its position to the satisfaction of the local HUD office, make a report with appropriate recommendations concerning the actions that should be taken by HUD to the Office of Multifamily Housing Management and Occupancy, Headquarters. The report shall be sent to the Office of Multifamily Housing Management and Occupancy, Headquarters, and shall include appropriate recommendations concerning the action that should be taken by HUD.
(b) The Office of Multifamily Housing Management and Occupancy will review the report and will consider whether to preempt the board's regulation. If it finds that the income level permitted by the board is inadequate to maintain the project as described in § 246.5, it shall issue a formal certification to the board that its authority has been preempted as to such rents. Copies of the certification shall be transmitted to the mortgagor, the local HUD office, and the board.
§ 246.11
Notification of action on preemption request.
(a) After HUD has considered the preemption request which meets the requirements of § 246.9 and has made its determination to approve or disapprove the request, it will furnish the mortgagor with a written statement of the reasons for approval or disapproval. The mortgagor shall make known to tenants, by posting or delivery in the manner outlined in § 246.7, the reasons for approval or disapproval.
(b) The mortgagor may effect collection of the HUD-approved income level which is set at the time of the preemption determination after the expiration of 30-days notice to the tenants, subject to the terms and rights a tenant may have under the existing lease.
(c) Once the project reaches the income level approved under these procedures, the project will be returned to the control of the local rent control board covering both the rents and the terms of prospective leases.
§ 246.12
Preemption of prospective term of lease.
(a) In those instances where it will take more than 60 days (2 months) for the project to reach the new income levels, HUD preemption of prospective lease terms shall be effective for those new or renewed leases which by regulation of a local rent control board would require the mortgagor to offer a lease for a term in excess of one year.
(b) As a condition for HUD preemption, the mortgagor must give only one-year leases to tenants whose leases expire during the preemption period.

# Subpart C—Subsidized Insured Projects
§ 246.20
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all projects with mortgages insured or held by HUD that receive a subsidy in the form of:
(a) Interest reduction payments under section 236 of the National Housing Act;
(b) Below-market interest rates under section 221(d)(3) and (5) of the National Housing Act;
(c) Direct loans at below-market interest rates under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (as in effect immediately before October 1, 1991);
(d) Rent supplement payments under section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
(e) Housing assistance payments under 24 CFR part 886, subpart A (Section 8 Loan Management Set Aside), for projects that converted their rent supplement contracts under section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 to such assistance for the term of the HAP contract; or
(f) Housing assistance payments pursuant to a contract under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 or section 23 of that Act (as in effect immediately before January 1, 1975), except that this subpart will only apply with respect to units occupied by tenants receiving housing assistance thereunder if the contract covers fewer than all units in the project.
[63 FR 64803, Nov. 23, 1998]
§ 246.21
Rental charges.
The Department finds that it is necessary and desirable to minimize defaults by the mortgagor in its financial obligations with regard to projects covered by this subpart, and to assist mortgagors to preserve the continued viability of those projects as a housing resource for low-income families. The Department also finds that it is necessary and desirable to protect the substantial economic interest of the Federal Government in those projects. Therefore, the Department concludes that it is in the national interest to preempt, and it does hereby preempt, the entire field of rent regulation by local rent control boards, (hereinafter referred to as board), or other authority, acting pursuant to state or local law as it affects projects covered by this subpart.
[40 FR 49318, Oct. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 58506, Oct. 10, 1979, and at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 246.22
Procedures.
(a) The mortgagor shall file its application for approval of increases in rental charges with the appropriate local office of HUD.
(b) The local HUD office will process the application for increases in rental charges in accordance with HUD's regulations, including part 245 of this chapter, and instructions and procedures, all adopted pursuant to the statutory authority described in § 246.8, and shall notify in writing any board in the area in which the project is located that it is processing the application and, that, pursuant to this subpart, HUD has preempted the entire field of rent regulation by a board acting pursuant to state or local law as it affects the project.
(c) The mortgagor may effect collection of the new rents in accordance with the procedures described in part 245, subpart D of this chapter. The mortgagor shall furnish the board a schedule of any new rents approved by HUD within ten (10) days after the approved rents have become effective. Notice to the board of the approved increases in rents does not confer upon the board a right to approve or disapprove the Department's action or to
exercise jurisdiction over the implementation of the rent increases by the mortgagor. The sole purpose of the notice is to inform the board of the lawful rents that may be charged for projects covered by this subpart.
[40 FR 49318, Oct. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 58506, Oct. 10, 1979, and at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984]

# Subpart D—HUD-Owned Projects
§ 246.30
Rental charges.
The Department has exclusive jurisdiction over the rents of all projects which it owns, irrespective of the existence, or the provisions, of any State or local rent control law or ordinance.
[40 FR 49318, Oct. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 58506, Oct. 10, 1979, and at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 246.31
Procedures.
(a) The local HUD office will notify in writing any local rent control board (hereinafter referred to as board) in the area in which the project is located that it is considering increasing the rents for a project within the scope of this subpart, and that the increases are expected to become effective after the expiration of thirty (30) days' notice to the tenants, subject to whatever rights a tenant may have under a lease. The local HUD office will also notify the board that, pursuant to this subpart, the Department has exclusive jurisdiction over the rents for the project.
(b) After the increases have become effective, the local HUD office will furnish the board a schedule of the new rents that are being charged by HUD. Notice to the board of the increased rents does not confer upon the board a right to approve or disapprove of the Department's action, or to exercise jurisdiction over the implementation of the rent increases by the Department. The sole purpose of the notice is to inform the board of the lawful rents that may be charged for projects covered by this subpart.
[40 FR 49318, Oct. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 58506, Oct. 10, 1979, and at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984]
Pt. 247

# PART 247—EVICTIONS FROM CERTAIN SUBSIDIZED AND HUD-OWNED PROJECTS

# Subpart A—Subsidized Projects
Sec.
247.1
Applicability.
247.2
Definitions.
247.3
Entitlement of tenants to occupancy.
247.4
Termination notice.
247.5
Inapplicability to substantial rehabilitation or demolition.
247.6
Eviction.
247.7
Implementation.

# Subpart B—HUD-Owned Projects
247.8
Incorporation by reference.
247.9
Applicability of procedures.
247.10
Inapplicability to substantial rehabilitation or demolition; right of disposition unimpaired.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701q, 1701s, 1715b, 1715
l,
and 1715z-1; 42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437c, 1437f, and 3535(d).

# Source:
41 FR 43330, Sept. 30, 1976, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984.

# Subpart A—Subsidized Projects
§ 247.1
Applicability.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 247.5 and 247.6(c), the provisions of this subpart shall apply to all decisions by a landlord to terminate the occupancy of a tenant in a subsidized project as defined in § 247.2(e). (Termination of tenancy of a family assisted with tenant-based assistance under the Housing Voucher Program is not subject to this part.)
(b) Landlords of subsidized projects that have been assisted under a covered housing program listed in 24 CFR 5.2003 must comply with 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), as described in § 200.38.
[54 FR 236, Jan. 4, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 80806, Nov. 16, 2016; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]
§ 247.2
Definitions.
Drug-related criminal activity
means the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use or possession with the intent to manufacture, sell, distribute, or use, of a controlled substance as defined in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802.
Eviction
means the dispossession of the tenant from the leased unit as a result of the termination of the tenancy, including a termination prior to the end of a term or at the end of a term.
Landlord
means either the owner of the property or his representative, or the managing agent or his representative, as shall be designated by the owner.
Rental agreement
means all agreements, written or oral, between the landlord and tenant (and valid rules and regulations adopted by the landlord pursuant to a written agreement) relating to the use and occupancy of a dwelling unit and surrounding premises.
State landlord and tenant act
means any state statute or local ordinance which imposes obligations on a landlord and tenant in connection with the occupancy of a dwelling unit and surrounding premises and which provides that violations of such obligations by the tenant constitute grounds for eviction.
Subsidized project
means a multifamily housing project (with the exception of a project owned by a cooperative housing mortgagor corporation or association) that receives the benefit of subsidy in the form of: below-market interest rates under section 221(d) (3) and (5), interest reduction payments under section 236 of the National Housing Act, or below market interest rate direct loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959. For purposes of this part,
subsidized project
also includes those units in a housing project that receive the benefit of:
(1) Rental subsidy in the form of rent supplement payments under section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); or
(2) Housing assistance payments for project-based assistance under Section 8 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f). However, this part is not applicable to Section 8 project-based assistance under parts 880, 881, 883 and 884 of this title (except as specifically provided in those parts).
[41 FR 43330, Sept. 30, 1976. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 53 FR 3368, Feb. 5, 1988; 54 FR 236, Jan. 4, 1989; 61 FR 47381, Sept. 6, 1996; 66 FR 28797, May 24, 2001]
§ 247.3
Entitlement of tenants to occupancy.
(a)
General.
The landlord may not terminate any tenancy in a subsidized project except upon the following grounds:
(1) Material noncompliance with the rental agreement,
(2) Material failure to carry out obligations under any state landlord and tenant act,
(3) Criminal activity by a covered person in accordance with sections 5.858 and 5.859, or alcohol abuse by a covered person in accordance with section 5.860. If necessary, criminal records can be obtained for lease enforcement purposes under section 5.903(d)(3).
(4) Other good cause.
No termination by a landlord under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall be valid to the extent it is based upon a rental agreement or a provision of state law permitting termination of a tenancy without good cause. No termination shall be valid unless it is in accordance with the provisions of § 247.4.
(b)
Notice of good cause.
The conduct of a tenant cannot be deemed other good cause under § 247.3(a)(4) unless the landlord has given the tenant prior notice that said conduct shall henceforth constitute a basis for termination of occupancy. Said notice shall be served on the tenant in the same manner as that provided for termination notices in § 247.4(b).
(c)
Material noncompliance.
The term
material noncompliance with the rental agreement
includes:
(1) One or more substantial violations of the rental agreement;
(2) Repeated minor violations of the rental agreement that:
(i) Disrupt the livability of the project,
(ii) Adversely affect the health or safety of any person or the right of any tenant to the quiet enjoyment of the
leased premises and related project facilities,
(iii) Interfere with the management of the project, or
(iv) Have an adverse financial effect on the project;
(3) If the tenant:
(i) Fails to supply on time all required information on the income and composition, or eligibility factors, of the tenant household, as provided in 24 CFR part 5; or
(ii) Knowingly provides incomplete or inaccurate information as required under these provisions; and
(4) Non-payment of rent or any other financial obligation due under the rental agreement (including any portion thereof) beyond any grace period permitted under State law, except that the payment of rent or any other financial obligation due under the rental agreement after the due date, but within the grace period permitted under State law, constitutes a minor violation.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0204)
[41 FR 43330, Sept. 30, 1976. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 54 FR 39697, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7531, Feb. 22, 1991; 61 FR 13624, Mar. 27, 1996; 61 FR 47382, Sept. 6, 1996; 66 FR 28797, May 24, 2001]
§ 247.4
Termination notice.
(a)
Requisites of Termination Notice.
The landlord's determination to terminate the tenancy shall be in writing and shall: (1) State that the tenancy is terminated on a date specified therein; (2) state the reasons for the landlord's action with enough specificity so as to enable the tenant to prepare a defense; (3) advise the tenant that if he or she remains in the leased unit on the date specified for termination, the landlord may seek to enforce the termination only by bringing a judicial action, at which time the tenant may present a defense; and (4) be served on the tenant in the manner prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Manner of service.
The notice provided for in paragraph (a) of this section shall be accomplished by: (1) Sending a letter by first class mail, properly stamped and addressed, to the tenant at his or her address at the project, with a proper return address, and (2) serving a copy of the notice on any adult person answering the door at the leased dwelling unit, or if no adult responds, by placing the notice under or through the door, if possible, or else by affixing the notice to the door. Service shall not be deemed effective until both notices provided for herein have been accomplished. The date on which the notice shall be deemed to be received by the tenant shall be the date on which the first class letter provided for in this paragraph is mailed, or the date on which the notice provided for in this paragraph is properly given, whichever is later.
(c)
Time of service.
When the termination of the tenancy is based on other good cause pursuant to § 247.3(a)(4), the termination notice shall be effective, and the termination notice shall so state, at the end of a term and in accordance with the termination provisions of the rental agreement, but in no case earlier than 30 days after receipt of the tenant of the notice. Where the termination notice is based on material noncompliance with the rental agreement or material failure to carry out obligations under a state landlord and tenant act pursuant to § 247.3(a)(1) or (2), the time of service shall be in accord with the rental agreement and state law. In cases of nonpayment of rent, the termination notice shall be effective no earlier than 30 days after receipt by the tenant of the termination notice. The landlord must not provide tenants with a termination notice prior to the day after the rent is due according to the lease. The landlord also must not proceed with filing an eviction if the tenant pays the alleged amount of rent owed within the 30-day notification period.
(d)
Modification of rental agreement.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, the landlord may with the prior approval of HUD modify the terms and conditions of the rental agreement, effective at the end of the initial term or a successive term, by serving an appropriate notice on the tenant, together with the tender of a revised rental agreement or an addendum revising the existing rental agreement: Any increase in rent shall in all cases be governed by 24 CFR parts 245,
246 and other applicable HUD regulations. This notice and tender shall be served on the tenant in the same manner as provided for in § 247.4(b) and must be received by the tenant at least 30 days prior to the last date on which the tenant has the right to terminate the tenancy without being bound by the codified terms and conditions. The tenant may accept the modified terms and conditions by executing the tendered revised rental agreement or addendum, or may reject the modified terms and conditions by giving the landlord written notice in accordance with the rental agreement that he intends to terminate the tenancy.
(e)
Notice requirements in rent nonpayment cases.
In any case in which termination of tenancy is initiated because of the tenant's failure to pay rent, a notice stating the dollar amount of the balance due on the rent account and the date of such computation shall satisfy the requirement of specificity set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. All termination notices in cases of nonpayment of rent must also include the following:
(1) Instructions on how the tenant can cure the nonpayment of rent violation, including an itemized amount separated by month of alleged rent owed by the tenant, any other arrearages allowed by HUD and included in the lease separated by month, and the date by which the tenant must pay the amount of rent owed before an eviction for nonpayment of rent can be filed;
(2) Information on how the tenant can recertify their income and, for tenants residing in projects assisted pursuant to a housing assistance payments contract for project-based assistance under section 8 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f), information on how the tenant can apply for a hardship exemption pursuant to 24 CFR 5.630(b); and
(3) In the event of a Presidential declaration of a national emergency, such information to tenants as required by the Secretary.
(f)
Failure of tenant to object.
The failure of the tenant to object to the termination notice shall not constitute a waiver of his rights to thereafter contest the landlord's action in any judicial proceeding.
[41 FR 43330, Sept. 30, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 22915, May 23, 1983. Redesignated at 49 FR 6713, Feb. 23, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 47382, Sept. 6, 1996; 86 FR 55701, Oct. 7, 2021; 89 FR 101302, Dec. 13, 2024]
§ 247.5
Inapplicability to substantial rehabilitation or demolition.
This subpart shall not apply in any case in which the landlord terminates the occupancy of a tenant as a direct result of a determination, concurred in by HUD, to substantially rehabilitate or demolish the project or to dispose of the project to a purchaser who purchases for the purpose of substantial rehabilitation or demolition.
§ 247.6
Eviction.
(a)
General.
The landlord shall not evict any tenant except by judicial action pursuant to State or local law and in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Limitations on allegations of new grounds.
In any judicial action instituted to evict the tenant, the landlord must rely on grounds which were set forth in the termination notice served on the tenant under this subpart. The landlord shall not, however, be precluded from relying on grounds about which he or she had no knowledge at the time the termination notice was sent.
(c)
State and local law.
A tenant may rely on State or local law governing eviction procedures where such law provides the tenant procedural rights which are in addition to those provided by this subpart, except where such State or local law has been preempted under part 246 of this chapter or by other action of the United States.
[48 FR 22915, May 23, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 49 FR 6713, 6715, Feb. 23, 1984]
§ 247.7
Implementation.
Every rental agreement entered into or renewed on and after the date on which this subpart is applicable to such tenant shall contain appropriate provisions implementing this subpart.

# Subpart B—HUD-Owned Projects
§ 247.8
Incorporation by reference.
All of the provisions of subpart A of this part covering certain multifamily projects (excepting § 247.5) apply with full force to the property described in § 247.9 and they are hereby incorporated by reference.
§ 247.9
Applicability of procedures.
The procedures outlined in this subpart apply to all decisions to terminate the occupancy of a tenant by the termination of a lease prior to the end of its term or at the end of a term where the tenant resides in any multifamily project which is presently owned by HUD, regardless of whether said project was a subsidized project prior to the acquisition of title by HUD.
§ 247.10
Inapplicability to substantial rehabilitation or demolition; right of disposition unimpaired.
This subpart shall not apply in any case in which HUD terminates the occupancy of a tenant as a direct result of a determination by HUD to substantially rehabilitate or demolish the project or to dispose of the project to a purchaser who purchases for the purpose of substantial rehabilitation or demolition. Nothing in this subpart should be construed to affect in any way the right of HUD to exercise its full statutory authority and discretion to dispose of property acquired pursuant to the National Housing Act.
Pt. 248

# PART 248—PREPAYMENT OF LOW INCOME HOUSING MORTGAGES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
248.1
Purpose.
248.3
Applicability.
248.5
Election to proceed under subpart B or subpart C of this part.

# Subpart B—Prepayments and Plans of Action Under the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990
248.101
Definitions.
248.103
General prepayment limitation.
248.105
Notice of intent.
248.111
Appraisal and preservation value of eligible low income housing.
248.121
Annual authorized return and aggregate preservation rents.
248.123
Determination of Federal cost limit.
248.127
Limitations on action pursuant to Federal cost limit.
248.131
Information from the Commissioner.
248.133
Second notice of intent.
248.135
Plans of action.
248.141
Criteria for approval of a plan of action involving prepayment and voluntary termination.
248.145
Criteria for approval of a plan of action involving incentives.
248.147
Housing standards.
248.149
Timetable for approval of a plan of action.
248.153
Incentives to extend low income use.
248.157
Voluntary sale of housing not in excess of Federal cost limit.
248.161
Mandatory sale of housing in excess of the Federal cost limit.
248.165
Assistance for displaced tenants.
248.169
Permissible prepayment or voluntary termination and modification of commitments.
248.173
Resident homeownership program.
248.175
Resident homeownership program—limited equity cooperative.
248.177
Delegated responsibility to State agencies.
248.179
Consultation with other interested parties.
248.181
Notice to tenants.
248.183
Preemption of State and local laws.

# Subpart C—Prepayment and Plans of Action Under the Emergency Low Income Preservation Act of 1987
248.201
Definitions.
248.203
General prepayment limitation.
248.211
Notice of intent to prepay.
248.213
Plan of action.
248.215
Notification of deficiencies.
248.217
Revisions to plan of action.
248.218
Tenant notice and opportunity to comment.
248.219
Notification of approval.
248.221
Approval of a plan of action that involves termination of low income affordability restrictions.
248.223
Alternative State strategy.
248.231
Incentives to extend low income use.
248.233
Approval of a plan of action that includes incentives.
248.234
Section 8 rental assistance.
248.241
Modification of existing regulatory agreements.
248.251
Consultation with other interested parties.
248.261
Agreements implementing plans of action and State strategies.

# Subpart D—State Preservation Project Assistance
248.300
General.
248.301
Initial application.
248.303
Approval of a State agency's initial application.
248.305
Applicability of subpart B of this part.
248.307
Authority to process and approve notices of intent and plans of action.
248.311
Notice of intent.
248.315
Preservation agreements.
248.319
Application for assistance.

# Subpart E—Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
248.401
Purposes.
248.405
Grants for building resident capacity and funding predevelopment costs.
248.410
Grants for other purposes.
248.415
Delivery of assistance through intermediaries.
248.420
Definitions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 17151 note, 4101 note, and 4101-4124; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 248.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to—
(a) Preserve and retain to the maximum extent practicable as housing affordable to low income families or persons those privately owned dwelling units that were produced for such purpose with Federal assistance, without unduly restricting the owners' prepayment rights;
(b) Minimize the involuntary displacement of tenants currently residing in such housing;
(c) Work in partnership with State and local government and the private sector in the provision and operation of housing that is affordable to very low, low and moderate income families; and
(d) Facilitate the sale of housing to residents under a resident homeownership program.
§ 248.3
Applicability.
The requirements of subparts B and C of this part apply to any project that is eligible low income housing, as defined in subparts B and C of this part respectively, on or after November 1, 1987, except that such requirements shall not apply to a project which receives assistance under title IV, subtitle B of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act in connection with a homeownership program approved by the Commissioner thereunder.
§ 248.5
Election to proceed under subpart B or subpart C of this part.
(a) Any owner who has not submitted a notice of intent prior to January 1, 1991, pursuant to either § 248.211 or § 248.105, shall proceed under subpart B of this part.
(b) Any owner who has filed a plan of action with the Commissioner on or before October 11, 1990 pursuant to subpart C of this part, regardless of whether or not the Commissioner has approved such plan of action or whether the owner has received incentives thereunder, may proceed under subpart B of this part by submitting a notice of intent to the Commissioner in accordance with § 248.105 within 30 days after publication of revised Appraisal Guidelines or within thirty days after the Commissioner notifies the owner of HUD's final approval of the plan of action, whichever is later. The notice of intent shall state that the owner is exercising its conversion right pursuant to this section. If the owner fails to file a notice of intent within that period, the owner forfeits its right of conversion. In awarding incentives to an owner who elects to proceed under subpart B of this part in accordance with this section, the Commissioner shall take into consideration any incentives which the owner has already received under subpart C of this part.
(c) Any owner of housing that becomes eligible low income housing, as defined in subpart B of this part, before January 1, 1991, and who before such date, filed a notice of intent under § 248.211 of subpart C of this part, may, unless a plan of action was submitted after October 11, 1990, elect to proceed under subpart B or under subpart C of this part. An owner must indicate its election by submitting to the Commissioner, within 30 days of the effective date of this part, a notice of election to proceed indicating whether it wishes to proceed under subpart B or subpart C of this part, or proceed under subpart B
of this part until completion of the appraisals and then elect either subpart B or subpart C of this part. An owner who chooses to retain its option until after the completion of the appraisals under § 248.111 must submit a new notice of intent to the Commissioner within 30 days after receipt of the information provided by the Commissioner under § 248.131. The notice of intent shall be submitted in accordance with either § 248.105 (for owners electing to proceed under subpart B of this part) or § 248.211 (for owners electing to proceed under subpart C of this part). Any owner who fails to file a notice of intent within the 30-day period may not proceed under subpart C of this part, but may proceed under subpart B of this part by filing a new notice of intent thereafter. If an owner who has filed a notice of intent before January 1, 1991 elects under this paragraph to proceed under subpart C of this part, it may change its election within 30 days after receipt of the information provided by the Commissioner under § 248.131 by filing a new notice of intent under § 248.211. For purposes of calculating any time periods or deadlines under this part for actions following the filing of the notice of intent, the date on which the owner submits the new notice of intent under this paragraph shall be deemed the date of the filing of the notice of intent. Any owner who, exercising its option under paragraph (c) of this section, submits a notice of intent under § 248.211 after the Commissioner has incurred the cost of having an appraisal, or appraisals, performed pursuant to § 248.111 of subpart A of this part, shall reimburse the Commissioner for these expenses within 30 days of receipt of a bill covering these expenses.
(d) For an owner who has elected under paragraph (c) of this section to proceed under subpart C of this part, the Commissioner shall provide sufficient assistance to enable a nonprofit organization that has purchased, or will purchase, eligible low income housing to meet project oversight costs, as that term is defined in § 248.201.
(e) The Commissioner shall not refuse to offer incentives under § 248.231 to any owner who filed a notice of intent under § 248.211 before October 15, 1991, based solely on the date of filing of the plan action.
(f) An owner who has filed a plan of action after October 11, 1990, pursuant to § 248.213, may not elect to proceed under subpart B of this part.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37814, July 13, 1993]

# Subpart B—Prepayments and Plans of Action Under the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990

# Source:
57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 248.101
Definitions.
Acquisition Loan.
A loan or advance of credit made to a qualified purchaser of eligible low income housing and insured by the Commissioner under part 241, subpart E of this chapter.
Adjusted Income.
Annual income, as specified in part 5 of this title, less allowances specified in the definition of “Adjusted Income” in part 5 of this title.
Aggregate Preservation Rent.
The extension preservation rent or transfer preservation rent, as defined under this section.
Annual Authorized Return.
That amount an owner of an eligible low income housing project may receive in distributions from the project each year, plus debt service payments payable each year attributable to the equity take-out portion of any loan approved under the plan of action, expressed as a percentage of the project's extension preservation equity.
Bona Fide Offer.
A certain and unambiguous offer to purchase an eligible low income housing project pursuant to subpart B of this part made in good faith by a qualified purchaser with the intent that such offer result in the execution of an enforceable, valid and binding contract. A bona fide offer shall include, for purposes of subpart B of this part, a contract of sale and an earnest money deposit, as set forth in § 248.157(g). For mandatory sales under § 248.161, the offer must include a contract of sale, an earnest money deposit
and also be for a purchase price which equals the transfer preservation value.
Capital Improvement Loan.
A direct loan originated by the Commissioner under part 219, subpart C of this chapter.
Community-Based Nonprofit Organization.
A private nonprofit organization that—
(1) Is organized under State or local laws;
(2) Has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
(3) Is neither controlled by, nor under the direction of, individuals or entities seeking to derive profit or gain from the organization.
(4) Has applied for, or has a tax exemption ruling from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(5) Does not include a public body (including the participating jurisdiction) or an instrumentality of a public body. An organization that is State or locally chartered may qualify as a community-based nonprofit organization; however, the State or local government may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body and no more than one-third of the board members can be public officials;
(6) Has standards of financial accountability that conform to 2 CFR 200.302 and 200.303;
(7) Has among its purposes the provision of decent housing that is affordable to low-income and moderate-income persons, as evidenced in its charter, articles of incorporation, resolutions or by-laws;
(8) Maintains accountability to low income community residents by—
(i) Maintaining at least one-third of its governing board's membership for low-income neighborhood residents, other low-income community residents, or elected representatives of low-income neighborhood organizations. For urban areas, “community” may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, city, county, or metropolitan area; for rural areas, “community” may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, town, village, county, or multi-county area (but not the entire State); and
(ii) Providing a formal process for low-income, program beneficiaries to advise the organization on its decisions regarding the acquisition, rehabilitation and management of affordable housing.
Default.
For purposes of § 248.105(a), the failure of the owner to make any payment due under the mortgage (including the full amount of the debt if the mortgagee has accelerated the debt on the basis of a non-monetary default) within 30 days after such payment becomes due.
Eligible Low Income Housing.
Any project that is not subject to a use restriction imposed by the Commissioner that restricts the project to low and moderate income use for a period at least equal to the remaining term of the mortgage, and that is financed by a loan or mortgage—
(1) That is—
(i) Insured or held by the Commissioner under section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act and assisted under part 886, subpart A of this title because of a conversion from assistance under 215 of this chapter;
(ii) Insured or held by the Commissioner under part 221 of this chapter and bearing a below market interest rate as provided under § 221.518(b) of this chapter;
(iii) Insured, assisted, or held by the Commissioner or a State or State agency under part 236 of this chapter; or
(iv) A purchase money mortgage held by the Commissioner with respect to a project which, immediately prior to HUD's acquisition, would have been classified under paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition; and
(2) That, under regulation or contract in effect before February 5, 1988, is or will within 24 months become eligible for prepayment without prior approval of the Commissioner.
Equity Loan.
A loan or advance of credit to the owner of eligible low income housing and insured by the Commissioner under part 241, subpart E of this chapter.
Extension Preservation Equity.
The extension preservation equity of a project is:
(1) The extension preservation value of the project determined under § 248.111; less
(2) The outstanding balance of any debt secured by the property.
Extension Preservation Rent.
The extension preservation rent is the gross potential income for the project that would be required to support:
(1) The annual authorized return;
(2) Debt service on any rehabilitation loan for the project;
(3) Debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) for the project;
(4) Project operating expenses; and
(5) Adequate reserves.
Extension Preservation Value.
The fair market value of the project based on the highest and best use of the project as multifamily market-rate rental housing.
Fair market rent.
The section 8 existing fair market rent published for effect and as defined under § 982.4 of this title, applicable to the jurisdiction in which the project is located, with adjustments, where appropriate, for projects in which tenants pay their own utilities. (No utility adjustments will be made to the fair market rent for purposes of determining the Federal cost limit.)
Federal Cost Limit.
The greater of 120 percent of the section 8 existing fair market rent for the market area in which the project is located or 120 percent of the prevailing rents in the relevant local market area in which the project is located.
Federally-assisted Mortgage.
Any mortgage as defined in this section, any insured operating loss loan secured by the project and any loan insured by the Commissioner under part 241 of this chapter.
Good Cause.
With respect to displacement, the temporary or permanent uninhabitability of the project justifying relocation of all or some of the project's tenants (except where such uninhabitability is caused by the actions or inaction of the owner), or actions of the tenant that, under the terms of the tenant's lease and applicable regulations, constitute a basis for eviction.
HOME Investment Trust Fund.
A public fund established in the general local or State government in which a project is located pursuant to title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
Homeownership Program.
A program developed by a resident council for the sale of an eligible low income housing project to the tenants in accordance with the standards in § 248.173 or § 248.175.
Interest Reduction Payments.
Payments made by the Commissioner pursuant to a contract to reduce the interest costs on a mortgage insured under part 236 of this chapter, as provided under subpart C of part 236 of this chapter.
Limited Equity Cooperative.
A tenant cooperative corporation which, in a manner acceptable to the Secretary, restricts the initial and resale price of the shares of stock in the cooperative corporation so that the shares remain affordable to low income families and moderate income families.
Low Income Affordability Restrictions.
Limits imposed by regulation or regulatory agreement on tenant rents, rent contributions, or income eligibility with respect to eligible low income housing.
Low Income Families.
Families or persons whose incomes do not exceed the levels established for low income families under part 5 of this title.
Low Vacancy Area.
A market area in which the current supply of decent, safe and sanitary, vacant, available rental units, as a proportion of the total overall rental inventory in the area is not sufficient to allow for normal growth and mobility, taking into account the need for vacancies resulting from turnover and to meet growth in renter households. The determination of a low vacancy area, as set forth in § 248.165(h), will be made by the Commissioner, utilizing the most recent available data for the market area on the rental inventory, renter households, rental vacancy rates and other factors as appropriate.
Moderate Income Families.
Families or persons whose incomes are between 80 percent and 95 percent of median area income, as determined by the Commissioner, with adjustments for smaller and larger families.
Mortgage.
The mortgage or deed of trust insured or held by the Commissioner or a State or State agency under parts 221 or 236 of this title or the purchase money mortgage taken back by
the Commissioner in connection with the sale of a HUD-owned project and held by the Commissioner, where such mortgage, deed or trust or purchase money mortgage is secured by eligible low income housing.
Nonprofit Organization.
Any private, nonprofit organization or association that—
(1) Is incorporated under State or local law;
(2) Has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
(3) Complies with standards of financial accountability acceptable to the Commissioner; and
(4) Has among its principal purposes significant activities related to the provision of decent housing that is affordable to very low, low, and moderate income families.
Notice of Intent.
An owner's notification to the Commissioner of its intention to terminate the low income affordability restrictions on the project through prepayment of the mortgage or voluntary termination of the insurance contract, to extend the low income affordability restrictions on the project, or to transfer the project to a qualified purchaser.
Owner.
The mortgagor or trustor under the mortgage secured by eligible low income housing.
Participating Jurisdiction.
For purposes of the resident homeownership program established in § 248.173, any State or unit of general local government that has been so designated in accordance with section 216 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12746).
Plan of Action.
A plan providing for the termination of the low income affordability restrictions on the project through prepayment of the mortgage or voluntary termination of the insurance contract, for extension of the low income affordability restrictions on the project, or for the transfer of the project to a qualified purchaser. A homeownership program constitutes a plan of action for purposes of subpart B of this part.
Prepayment.
Prepayment in full of a mortgage, or a partial prepayment or series of partial prepayments that reduces the mortgage term by a least six months, except where the prepayment in full or partial prepayment results from the application of condemnation proceeds.
Preservation Equity.
The extension preservation equity or transfer preservation equity, as defined under this section.
Preservation Value.
The extension preservation value or transfer preservation value, as defined under this section.
Priority Purchaser.
Any entity that is not a related party to the owner and that is either—
(1) A resident council organized to acquire the project in accordance with a resident homeownership program that meets the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(2) Any nonprofit organization or State or local agency that agrees to maintain low income affordability restrictions for the remaining useful life of the project. A nonprofit organization or State or local agency that is affiliated with a for-profit entity for purposes of purchasing a project under subpart B of this part shall not be considered a priority purchaser.
Project oversight costs.
Reasonable expenses incurred by a priority purchaser in carrying out its ongoing ownership responsibilities under an approved plan of action. Project oversight costs must be directly related to educating the priority purchaser's board of directors or otherwise supporting the board in its decision making. Project oversight costs may include staff, overhead, or third-party contract costs for:
(1) Ensuring adequate and responsible participation by the board of directors and the membership of the priority purchaser in ownership decisions, including ensuring resident input in these decisions;
(2) Facilitating long-range planning by the board of directors to ensure the physical, financial and social viability of the project for the entire time the project is maintained as low income housing; and
(3) Assisting the ownership in complying with regulatory, use, loan and grant agreements.
Proprietary information.
That information which cannot be released to the
public because it consists of trade secrets, confidential financial information, audits, personal financial information about partners in the ownership entity, or income data on project tenants. Where proprietary information cannot be separated from the rest of a document, the entire document shall be deemed “proprietary information” and shall not be releasable to the public. Where proprietary information can be reasonably segregated from the rest of the document, the proprietary information shall be deleted and the remainder of the document shall be releasable to the public.
Public Housing Agency.
A public housing agency, as defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
Qualified Purchaser.
Any entity that is not a related party to the owner and that agrees to maintain low income affordability restrictions for the remaining useful life of the project, and includes for-profit entities and priority purchasers.
Regulatory Agreement.
The agreement executed by the owner and the Commissioner or a State agency providing for the regulation of the operation of the project.
Related Party.
An entity that, either directly or indirectly, is wholly or partially owned or controlled by the owner of the project being transferred under subpart B of this part, is under whole or partial common control with such owner, or has any financial interest in such owner or in which such owner has any financial interest. However, this shall not prohibit a nonprofit organization from buying out the interest of its limited dividend or for-profit partners in connection with the sale of eligible low income housing under subpart B of this part, as long as the sale is made on an arm's length basis and the partners who sell their interest completely divest themselves of any input in the continued operation of the project. The purchaser and the owner shall not be deemed related parties on the basis that financing is provided to the purchaser by the seller, or a management company affiliated with the seller, as long as:
(1) Only a loan, and not a grant, is provided;
(2) The financing is provided for the acquisition of the project, the rehabilitation of the project, or both;
(3) In the case of financing for the acquisition of the project, the sum of the principal amount of the loan, plus the amount of the acquisition loan under section 241(f) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-6(f)), and any Federal grant to cover acquisition of the project, does not exceed the sum of the sales price and the expenses associated with the acquisition, loan closing and implementation of the plan of action; and in the case of financing for the rehabilitation of the project, the principal amount of the loan does not exceed the equity requirements applicable to the rehabilitation loan or capital improvement loan obtained by the purchaser under part 241 or part 219 of this chapter;
(4) The loan is not a condition of accepting a bona fide offer or entering into a sales contract;
(5) The seller has no input in the continued operation of the project as a result of the loan; and
(6) In the case of a loan provided by a management company that is affiliated with the seller, the execution of a management contract between the purchaser and the management company is not a condition of the loan. This rule does not bar an owner, or former owner, from membership on a nonprofit organization's board of directors, as long as the owner, or former owner, participates only in his or her personal capacity, without compensation, and holds a nonvoting membership. The purchaser and the owner shall not be deemed related parties solely by reason of the purchaser's retention of a property management entity of a company that is owned or controlled by the owner or a principal thereof, if retention of the management company is neither a condition of sale nor part of consideration paid for the project and the property management contract is negotiated by the qualified purchaser on an arm's length basis.
Relevant Local Market.
An area geographically smaller than the market area established by the Commissioner for purposes of determining the section 8 existing fair market rent, that is identifiable as a distinct rental market
area in which similar projects and units would effectively compete with the subject project, for potential tenants.
Relocation Expenses.
Relocation expenses shall consist of payment for—
(1) Advisory services, including timely information, counseling (including the provision of information on a resident's rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619)), and referrals to suitable, affordable, decent, safe and sanitary alternative housing; and
(2) Payment for actual, reasonable moving expenses.
Remaining Useful Life.
With respect to eligible low income housing, the period during which the physical characteristics of the project remain in a condition suitable for occupancy, assuming normal maintenance and repairs are made and major systems and capital components are replaced as becomes necessary.
Reserve for Replacements.
The escrow fund established under the regulatory agreement for the purpose of ensuring the availability of funds for needed repair and replacement costs.
Resident Council.
Any incorporated nonprofit organization or association in which membership is available to all the tenants, and only the tenants, of a particular project and—
(1) Is representative of the residents of the project;
(2) Adopts written procedures providing for the election of officers on a regular basis; and
(3) Has a democratically elected governing board, elected by the residents of the project.
Residual Receipt Fund.
The fund established under the regulatory agreement for holding cash remaining after deducting from the surplus cash, as defined by the regulatory agreement, the amount of all allowable distributions.
Return on Investment.
The amount of allowable distributions that a purchaser of a project may receive under a plan of action under § 248.157 or § 248.161.
Section 8 Assistance.
Assistance provided under parts 880 through 887 and 982 and 983 of this title.
Special Needs Tenants.
Those “elderly persons,” 62 years of age or older, “elderly families,” or families that include “disabled persons,” as such terms are defined in part 5 of this title, or large families of five or more persons and requiring units with three or more bedrooms.
State assisted or subsidized mortgage.
A mortgage which is assisted or subsidized by an agency of a State government without any Federal mortgage subsidy.
Tenant Representative.
A designated officer of an organization of the project's tenants, a tenant who has been elected to represent the tenants of the project with respect to subpart B of this part, or a person or organization that has been formally designated or retained by an organization of the project's tenants to represent the tenants with respect to subpart B of this part.
Termination of Low Income Affordability Restrictions.
The elimination of low income affordability restrictions under the regulatory agreement through termination of mortgage insurance or prepayment of the mortgage.
Transfer Preservation Equity.
The transfer preservation equity of a project is:
(1) The transfer preservation value of the project determined under § 248.111; less
(2) The outstanding balance of the federally-assisted mortgage(s) for the project.
Transfer Preservation Rent.
For purposes of receiving incentives pursuant to a sale of the project, transfer preservation rent shall be the gross income for the project that would be required to support:
(1) Debt service on the loan for acquisition of the project;
(2) Debt service on any rehabilitation loan for the project;
(3) Debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) for the housing;
(4) Project operating expenses; and
(5) Adequate reserves.
Transfer Preservation Value.
The fair market value of the project based on its highest and best use.
Very Low Income Families.
Families or persons whose incomes do not exceed the level established for very low income families under part 5 of this title.
Voluntary Termination of Mortgage Insurance.
The termination of all rights
under the mortgage insurance contract and of all obligations to pay future insurance premiums.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 57314, Dec. 3, 1992; 58 FR 37814, July 13, 1993; 59 FR 14369, Mar. 28, 1994; 64 FR 26639, May 14, 1999; 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 248.103
General prepayment limitation.
(a)
Prepayment.
An owner of eligible low income housing may prepay, and a mortgagee may accept prepayment of, a mortgage on such project only in accordance with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner.
(b)
Termination.
A mortgage insurance contract with respect to eligible low income housing may be terminated pursuant to § 207.253 of this chapter only in accordance with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner.
(c)
Foreclosure.
A mortgagee of a mortgage insured by the Commissioner may foreclose the mortgage on, or acquire by deed in lieu of foreclosure, any eligible low income housing only if the mortgagee also conveys title to the project to the Commissioner in connection with a claim for insurance benefits.
(d)
Effect of unauthorized prepayment.
A mortgagee's acceptance of a prepayment in violation of paragraph (a) of this section, or the voluntary termination of a mortgage insurance contract in violation of paragraph (b) of this section, shall be null and void and any low income affordability restrictions on the project shall continue to apply to the project.
(e)
Remedies for unauthorized prepayment.
A mortgagee's acceptance of a prepayment in violation of paragraph (a) of this section, or attempt to obtain voluntary termination of a mortgage insurance contract in violation of paragraph (b) of this section, is grounds for administrative action under parts 24 and 25 of this title, in addition to any other remedies available by law, including rescission of the prepayment or reinstatement of the insurance contract.
§ 248.105
Notice of intent.
(a)
Eligibility for filing.
An owner of eligible low income housing intending to prepay the mortgage or voluntarily terminate the mortgage insurance contract pursuant to § 248.141, extend the low income affordability restrictions of the housing in accordance with § 248.153, or transfer the housing to a qualified purchaser under § 248.157, may file a notice of intent unless the mortgage covering the project—
(1) Continued in default or fell into default on or after the November 28, 1990, and the mortgage has been assigned to the Commissioner as a result of such default;
(2) Continued in default or fell into default on or after November 28, 1990, while the mortgage was held by the Commissioner;
(3) Fell into default prior to November 28, 1990, if the owner entered into a workout agreement prior to that date, and on or after that date, the owner has defaulted under the workout agreement (and, if the agreement was with an insured mortgagee, the mortgage has been assigned to the Commissioner as a result of the default under the workout agreement); or
(4) Fell into default prior to November 28, 1990, but has been current since that date and the owner has not agreed to recompense the appropriate insurance fund for losses sustained by the fund as a result of any work-out or other arrangement agreed to by the Commissioner and the owner with respect to the defaulted mortgage.
(b)
Filing with the Commissioner.
The notice of intent shall be filed with the HUD Field Office in whose jurisdiction the project is located. The notice of intent shall identify the project by name, project number and location. It shall contain a statement indicating whether the owner intends to extend the affordability restrictions on the project by retaining ownership of the project or transferring it to a qualified purchaser, or whether the owner intends to terminate the affordability restrictions on the project through prepayment of the mortgage or termination of the mortgage insurance contract. The notice of intent shall also request the tenants to notify the owner, the Commissioner, and the State or local officer identified in the notice of intent of any individual or organization that has been designated or retained by the tenants to represent the tenants with
respect to the actions to be taken under subpart B of this part.
(c)
Filing with the State or local government and tenants.
The owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with the chief executive officer of the appropriate State or local government in which the project is located, or any officer designated by executive order or State or local law to receive such information, and with the mortgagee. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the notice of intent to each occupied unit in the project and to any tenant representative, if any, known to the owner, and shall post a copy of the notice of intent in readily accessible locations within each affected building of the project. The copies of the notice of intent delivered to the tenants and the tenant representative shall include a summary of possible outcomes of the filing which shall be furnished by the Commissioner. Upon the request of any non-English speaking tenants residing in the affected project, the owner shall tabulate the number and type of translations needed by the tenants and request the local HUD field office to provide the appropriate translations. The owner shall deliver a copy of the translated notice of intent to all of the tenants who requested such translation. The failure of an owner to comply with any non-federal notice requirements shall not invalidate the notice of intent.
§ 248.111
Appraisal and preservation value of eligible low income housing.
(a)
Appraisal.
Upon receiving a notice of intent indicating an intent to extend the low income affordability restrictions under § 248.153 or transfer the project under § 248.157, the Commissioner shall provide for determination of the preservation values of the project pursuant to this section.
(b)
Notice.
Within 30 days after the filing of a notice of intent to extend the income restrictions or to transfer the project, the Commissioner shall provide the owner with written notice of—
(1) The need for, and the rules and guidelines governing, an appraisal of the project;
(2) The filing deadline for submission of the appraisal;
(3) The need for an appraiser retained by the Commissioner to inspect the project and the project's financial records; and
(4) Any delegation to an appropriate State agency, if any, by the Commissioner of responsibilities regarding the performance of an appraisal pursuant to this section.
(c)
Appraisers.
The Commissioner and the owner shall each select and compensate an appraiser who shall:
(1) Neither be an employee of the Federal Government nor an employee or officer of any entity that is affiliated with the owner or the mortgagee of record;
(2) Be certified by the appropriate State agency under the standards established by the Federal Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 1451-1459); and
(3) Have six years of experience in the appraisal profession and at least three years experience in the practice of appraising multifamily residential properties;
(4) Is not the subject of a charge issued following a reasonable cause determination under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619).
(d)
Guidelines.
The Commissioner shall provide to the owner and the appraiser retained by the Commissioner guidelines for conducting the appraisal. The guidelines established by the Commissioner shall be consistent with customary appraisal standards. The guidelines shall assume repayment of the existing federally-assisted mortgage(s), termination of the existing Federal low income affordability restrictions, simultaneous termination of any Federal rental assistance, and costs of compliance with any State or local laws of general applicability. The guidelines may permit reliance upon assessments of rehabilitation needs and other conversion costs determined by an appropriate State agency, as determined by the Commissioner.
(e)
Operating expenses.
For the purpose of determining preservation values, the guidelines shall instruct the appraiser to use the greater of actual project operating expenses at the time
of the appraisal, based on the average of the actual project operating expenses during the preceding three years, or projected operating expenses after conversion, as determined by the Commissioner. However, if the current year operating expenses are higher than those of the preceding three years and the Commissioner has made a determination that these costs are unlikely to decrease in the future, the appraiser shall use current year operating expenses rather than operating expenses for the preceding three years for purposes of comparison with projected operating expenses after conversion. Likewise, if the current year operating expenses are lower than those of the preceding years and the Commissioner has made a determination that these costs are unlikely to increase in the future, the appraiser shall use current year operating expenses rather than operating expenses for the preceding three years for purposes of comparison with projected expenses after conversion. Where the highest and best use of a project is not as rental housing, the appraiser shall use projected operating expenses assuming conversion of the project to its highest and best use.
(f)
Preservation values.
The preservation values will be determined on the basis of the appraisals conducted by the owner's and the Commissioner's independent appraisers. Each appraiser will determine both the extension preservation value and the transfer preservation value, regardless of the owner's intentions as indicated in the notice of intent.
(g)
Highest and best use as residential property.
In determining the extension preservation value of the project, the appraiser shall assume conversion of the project to market-rate rental housing. The appraiser shall, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Commissioner, determine the amount of rehabilitation expenditures, if any, that would be necessary to bring the project up to quality standards required to attract and sustain a market-rate tenancy upon conversion and assess other costs that the owner could reasonably be expected to incur if the owner converted the property to market-rate multifamily rental housing.
(h)
Highest and best use.
In determining the transfer preservation value for the project, the appraiser shall assume conversion of the project to highest and best use for the property, and shall, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Commissioner, determine the amount of any rehabilitation expenditures, including demolition, that would be necessary to convert the project to such use and assess other costs that the owner could reasonably be expected to incur if the owner converted the property to its highest and best use.
(i)
Submission of appraisal.
Within four months after the filing of the notice of intent:
(1) The owner shall submit to the HUD Field Office in whose jurisdiction the project is located, the appraisal made by the owner's selected appraiser; and
(2) The Commissioner's selected appraiser shall conduct and submit an appraisal to the Commissioner.
(j)
Joint determination of preservation values.
No later than one month after the owner and the Commissioner exchange appraisals, the owner and the Commissioner shall, on the basis of the appraisals delivered to them, agree on the preservation values of the project. If no agreement as to preservation values can be reached, the owner and the Commissioner shall jointly select a third appraiser meeting the qualifications set forth in paragraph (c) of this section by the end of six months from the date that the notice of intent was filed. The cost of this third appraisal shall be borne equally by both parties. The third appraiser must comply with the guidelines set forth in paragraph (d) of this section and must conduct the appraisal and submit an appraisal within two months after accepting the assignment. The determination by the third appraiser of the project's preservation values shall be binding on both the owner and the Commissioner.
(k)
Timeliness of appraisals.
The Commissioner may approve a plan of action to receive incentives under §§ 248.153, 248.157 or 248.161 only based upon an appraisal conducted in accordance with this section that is not more than 30 months old, unless the failure of the Commissioner to approve the plan of
action within the 30-month period was due to circumstances beyond the control of the owner.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 4871, Jan. 15, 1993]
§ 248.121
Annual authorized return and aggregate preservation rents.
(a)
Annual authorized return.
For each eligible low income housing project appraised under § 248.111, the Commissioner shall set an annual authorized return on the project equal to 8 percent of the extension preservation equity.
(b)
Aggregate preservation rents.
For each eligible low income housing project appraised under § 248.111, the Commissioner shall also determine the aggregate preservation rents. The aggregate preservation rents shall be used solely for the purposes of comparison with the Federal cost limit under § 248.123. Actual rents received by the owner (or a qualified purchaser) shall be determined pursuant to §§ 248.153, 248.157, and 248.161.
(c)
Extension preservation rent.
The extension preservation rent shall be the gross potential income for the project, as determined by the Commissioner, that would be required to support—
(1) The annual authorized return determined under paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Debt service on any rehabilitation loan for the project, assuming a market rate of interest and customary terms;
(3) Debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) for the project;
(4) Project operating expenses as determined by the Commissioner; and
(5) Adequate reserves.
(d)
Transfer preservation rent.
The transfer preservation rent shall be the gross potential income for the project, as determined by the Commissioner, that would be required to support—
(1) Debt service on the loan for acquisition of the project;
(2) Debt service on any rehabilitation loan for the project, assuming a market rate of interest and customary terms;
(3) Debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) for the project;
(4) Project operating expenses as determined by the Commissioner; and
(5) Adequate reserves.
(e)
Adequate reserves and operating expenses.
For purposes of this section—
(1) Adequate reserves are the amount of funds which, when added to existing reserves, are sufficient to maintain the project, including needed deferred maintenance, at a level that meets the standards set forth in § 248.147; and
(2) Project operating expenses shall be based on operating expenses for the preceding 3 years, adjusted for reasonable reductions in operating costs due to rehabilitation and energy improvements. For purposes of comparison to the gross rents used in determining the Federal cost limit, project operating expenses shall include the cost of utilities paid by the residents.
(f)
Debt service.
For purposes of this section, the amount of debt service for an acquisition loan will be estimated based on the maximum loan to which the purchaser is entitled under § 241.1067 of this chapter. The debt service on any rehabilitation loan will be estimated using costs derived from the appraisals conducted under § 248.111, taking into account any funds provided for rehabilitation by State or local governments and assuming market rate interest rates.
§ 248.123
Determination of Federal cost limit.
(a)
Initial determination.
For each eligible low income housing project appraised under § 248.111, the Commissioner shall determine whether the aggregate preservation rents for the project exceed the amount determined by multiplying the number of dwelling units in the project, according to appropriate unit sizes, by 120 percent of the section 8 existing fair market rent for the appropriate unit sizes.
(b)
Relevant local markets.
If either the extension or transfer preservation rent for a project exceeds the amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner shall determine whether such extension or transfer preservation rent exceeds the amount determined by multiplying the number of units in the project, according to the appropriate unit sizes, by 120 percent of the prevailing rents in the local market area. The relevant local market, and the prevailing rents in
such relevant local market, shall be determined on the basis of the appraisal conducted by the appraiser selected by the Commissioner pursuant to § 248.111 and any other information that the Commissioner determines is appropriate. If there are no comparables in the relevant local market and it is not otherwise possible to determine prevailing rents in that area, the section 8 existing fair market rent shall be the sole measure for determining the Federal cost limit.
(c)
Effect.
The extension or transfer preservation rent for an eligible low income housing project appraised under § 248.111 shall be considered to exceed the Federal cost limit only if the extension or transfer preservation rent exceeds the amount determined under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 248.127
Limitations on action pursuant to Federal cost limit.
(a)
Retention of the project.
With respect to owners who seek to retain the project, the owner may file a plan of action to receive incentives under § 248.153, except that if the extension preservation rent exceeds the Federal cost limit, the amount of the incentives may not exceed an amount that can be supported by a projected income stream equal to the Federal cost limit.
(b)
Transfer of the project.
With respect to owners who seek to transfer the project—
(1) If the transfer preservation rent does not exceed the Federal cost limit, or if the transfer preservation rent exceeds the Federal cost limit and the owner is willing to transfer the project at a price which will result in project rents that, on an aggregate level, do not exceed the Federal cost limit, the owner may file a second notice of intent indicating an intention to transfer the project under § 248.157; or
(2) If the transfer preservation rent exceeds the Federal cost limit, the owner may file a second notice of intent to transfer the project under § 248.161 or, if no bona fide offers are received, to prepay the mortgage or terminate the mortgage insurance.
§ 248.131
Information from the Commissioner.
(a)
Information to owners terminating affordability restrictions.
Within six months after receipt of a notice of intent to terminate the low income affordability restrictions under § 248.141, the Commissioner shall provide the owner with a description of the criteria for such termination and with information that the owner needs to prepare a plan of action. This shall include information concerning the standards under § 248.141 regarding the approval of a plan of action and a list of the Federal incentives authorized under § 248.153 and available to those projects for which a plan of action involving termination of low income affordability restrictions, through prepayment of the mortgage or termination of the mortgage insurance contract, would not be approvable. The Commissioner shall also provide the owner with any other relevant information which the Commissioner may possess.
(b)
Information to owners extending affordability restrictions.
Within nine months of receipt of a notice of intent to extend the low income affordability restrictions under § 248.153 or to transfer the project under § 248.157, the Commissioner shall provide the owner who submitted the notice with—
(1) A statement of the preservation values of the project as determined under § 248.111;
(2) A statement of the aggregate preservation rents for the project as calculated under § 248.121;
(3) A statement of the applicable Federal cost limit for the market area (or relevant local market, if applicable) in which the project is located, and an explanation of the limitations under § 248.127 on the amount of assistance the Commissioner may provide based on such cost limits;
(4) A statement of whether either of the aggregate preservation rents exceeds the Federal cost limit; and
(5) A direction to file a plan of action and the information necessary to file a plan of action; or
(6) A direction to submit a second notice of intent under § 248.133.
(c)
Information to tenants and State or local governments.
The Commissioner shall provide any information provided
to the owner under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to the tenant representative, if any, known to the Commissioner, and shall post a notice in each affected building informing tenants of the name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the tenant representative(s) and appropriate personnel in the local HUD field office, from whom they may obtain this information. The Commissioner shall also provide this information to that officer of State or local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent pursuant to § 248.105(c). The Commissioner shall include in the information packet made available to the tenants any other information relating to their rights and opportunities, including—
(1) The potential opportunity of the tenants to become priority purchasers under §§ 248.157 and 248.161; and
(2) The potential opportunity of resident homeownership under §§ 248.173 or 248.175.
§ 248.133
Second notice of intent.
(a)
Filing.
A second notice of intent must be filed by all owners who, after receiving the information provided by the Commissioner in § 248.131, elect to transfer the project under §§ 248.157 or 248.161.
(b)
Timeliness.
A second notice of intent must be submitted not later than 30 days after receipt of the information provided by the Commissioner under § 248.131. If an owner who is required to submit a second notice of intent fails to do so within this time period, the original notice of intent submitted under § 248.105 shall be void and ineffective for purposes of subpart B of this part.
(c)
Filing with the State or local government and tenants.
The owner simultaneously shall file the second notice of intent with that officer of State and local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent under § 248.105(c) and with the mortgagee. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the second notice of intent to each tenant representative known to the owner, and if none is known, then to each occupied unit in the project.
§ 248.135
Plans of action.
(a)
Submission.
An owner seeking to terminate the low income affordability restrictions through prepayment of the mortgage or voluntary termination under § 248.141, or to extend the low income affordability restrictions on the project under § 248.153, shall submit a plan of action to the Commissioner in the form and manner prescribed in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section respectively, within 6 months after receipt of the information from the Commissioner under § 248.131.
(b)
Joint Submission.
An owner and purchaser seeking a transfer of the project under §§ 248.157 or 248.161 shall jointly submit a plan of action to the Commissioner in the form and manner prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section within six months after the owner's acceptance of a bona fide offer under § 248.157 or the purchaser's making of a bona fide offer under § 248.161.
(c)
Filing with the State or local government and tenants.
The owner shall notify the tenants of the plan of action by posting in each occupied building a summary of the plan of action and by delivery of a copy of the plan of action to the tenant representative, if any. In addition, the summary must indicate that a copy of the plan of action shall be available from the tenant representatives, whose names, addresses and telephone numbers are indicated on the summary, the local HUD field office, and the on-site office for the project, or if one is not available, in the location where rents are collected, for inspection and copying, at a reasonable cost, during normal business hours. Simultaneously with the submission to the Commissioner, the owner shall submit the plan of action to that officer of State or local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent under § 248.105(c). The Commissioner shall submit a copy of the plan of action to the chief executive officer of the appropriate agency of such State or local government which shall review the plan of action and advise the tenants of the project of any programs that are available to assist the tenants in carrying out the purposes of this subpart. The summary of the plan of action posted by the owner and the copies of the plan of action submitted
to the tenant representative, the officer of State or local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent under § 248.105(c) and the chief executive officer of the appropriate State or local government, shall all state that, upon request, the tenants and the State or local government, may obtain from the owner or from the local HUD field office a copy of all documentation supporting the plan of action except for that documentation deemed “proprietary information” under § 248.101.
(d)
Termination of affordability restrictions.
If the plan of action proposes to terminate the low income affordability restrictions through prepayment or voluntary termination in accordance with § 248.141, it shall include:
(1) A description of any proposed changes in the status or terms of the mortgage or regulatory agreement;
(2) A description of any proposed changes in the low income affordability restrictions;
(3) A description of any change in ownership that is related to prepayment or voluntary termination;
(4) An assessment of the effect of the proposed changes on existing tenants;
(5) An analysis of the effect of the proposed changes on the supply of housing affordable to low and very low income families or persons in the community within which the project is located and in the area that the housing could reasonably be expected to serve;
(6) A list of any waivers requested by the owner pursuant to § 248.7; and
(7) Any other information that the Commissioner determines is necessary to achieve the purposes of subpart B of this part.
(e)
Extension of affordability restrictions.
If the plan of action proposes to extend the low income affordability restrictions of the project in accordance with § 248.153 or transfer the project to a qualified purchaser in accordance with §§ 248.157 or 248.161, the plan of action shall include:
(1) A description of any proposed changes in the status or terms of the mortgage or regulatory agreement;
(2) A description of the Federal incentives requested, including cash flow projections and analyses of how the owner will address any physical or financial deficiencies and maintain the low income affordability restrictions of the project;
(3) A description of any assistance from State or local government agencies, including low income housing tax credits that have been offered to the owner or purchaser or for which the owner or purchaser has applied or intends to apply;
(4) A description of any transfer of the property, including the identity of the transferee and a copy of any documents of sale;
(5) An income profile of the tenants as of the date of submission of the plan of action and as of January 1, 1987 (based on the area median income limits established by the Commissioner in February 1987), or if the January 1, 1987 profile is unavailable, a certification from the owner stating its unavailability and a profile as of January 1, 1988, or, if that is also unavailable, a profile as of January 1, 1989;
(6) A transfer of physical assets package, if a transfer is proposed;
(7) A list of any waivers requested by the owner pursuant to § 248.7; and
(8) Any other information that the Commissioner determines is necessary to achieve the purposes of subpart B of this part.
(f)
Revisions.
The owner or owner and purchaser may from time to time revise and amend the plan of action as may be necessary to obtain approval under subpart B of this part and must amend the plan of action no later than 30 days after a change in any of the information required in paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section. The owner shall submit any revision to the Commissioner, and provide a copy of the revision and all documentation supporting the revision except for that documentation deemed “proprietary information” under § 248.101, to the parties, and in the manner, specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(g)
Failure to Submit.
If the owner fails to submit a plan of action to the Commissioner, when prepayment or termination is sought, within the 6 month period set forth in paragraph (a) of this section or, when a transfer is sought, if the owner and purchaser fail to submit a plan of action within the 6
month time period set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the notice of intent filed by the owner under § 248.105 shall be ineffective for the purposes of subpart B of this part and the owner shall be barred from submitting another notice of intent under § 248.105 until 6 months after expiration of such period.
(h)
Comment Period for tenants and State or local governments.
Upon submission of the plan of action by the owner, the tenants of the affected project and the State or local government shall have 60 days in which to provide comments on the plan of action to the Commissioner or to the owner, who will then submit the comments to the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall not approve a plan of action under subpart B of this part before the end of this 60-day period and all comments received during this period will be considered by the Commissioner in making its determination to approve or disapprove a plan of action.
(i)
Notification to tenants and the State or local government of plan of action approval.
Upon the Commissioner's approval of the plan of action, the owner shall notify tenants of the terms thereof by posting in each occupied building a summary of the plan of action and by delivery of a copy of the plan of action to the tenant representative, if any. In addition, the summary must indicate that a copy of the plan of action shall be available for inspection and copying during reasonable hours in a location convenient to the tenants.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37814, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.141
Criteria for approval of a plan of action involving prepayment and voluntary termination.
(a)
Approval.
The Commissioner may approve a plan of action that provides for the termination of the low income affordability restrictions through prepayment of the mortgage or voluntary termination of the mortgage insurance contract only upon a written finding that—
(1) Implementation of the plan of action will not—
(i) Materially increase economic hardship for current tenants, and will not in any event result in a monthly rental payment by any current tenant that exceeds 30 percent of the monthly adjusted income of the tenant or an increase in the monthly rental payment in any year that exceeds 10 percent (whichever is lower); or in the case of a current tenant who already pays more than such percentage, an increase in the monthly rental payment in any year that exceeds the increase in the Consumer Price Index or 10 percent (whichever is lower); or
(ii) Involuntarily displace current tenants (except for good cause) where comparable and affordable housing is not readily available, determined without regard to the availability of Federal housing assistance that would address any such hardship or involuntary displacement; and
(2) The supply of vacant, comparable housing is sufficient to ensure that such prepayment will not materially affect—
(i) The availability of decent, safe, and sanitary housing affordable to low income and very low income families or persons in the area that the housing could reasonably be expected to serve;
(ii) The ability of low income and very low income families or persons to find affordable, decent, safe, and sanitary housing near employment opportunities; or
(iii) The housing opportunities of minorities in the community within which the housing is located.
(3) There are no open audit findings, open findings of noncompliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 652); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794); and all regulations promulgated under such statutes and authorities (including, but not limited to 24 CFR part 100), or outstanding violations of the regulatory agreement.
(b) For purposes of approving a plan of action under this section, the Commissioner shall find that the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section have been met if the owner agrees to execute a use agreement which provides that rents for all tenants residing
at the project at the time of plan of action approval will not exceed the limit established in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section and that no tenant residing in the project at the time of plan of action approval will be involuntarily displaced without good cause.
(c) For purposes of approving a plan of action under this section, the Commissioner shall find that the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section have been met if the project is located in a housing market area which has been determined to have an adequate supply of decent, safe and sanitary rental housing; and it has been determined, based on the specific characteristics of the project, that the prepayment would not materially affect the housing opportunities of low and very-low income families.
(1) For purposes of this section, a “housing market area” is defined as an area where rental housing units of similar characteristics are in relative competition with each other. If a project is in a non-metropolitan area, the housing market area is the county in which the project is located. If the project is located in a metropolitan area the housing market area is the primary metropolitan statistical area (PMSA), or in the case of very large metropolitan areas, the housing market area may be a portion of the PMSA.
(2) For purposes of this section, a housing market area may be determined to have an adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing if the housing market area has a soft rental market. A soft rental market is a housing market area in which the supply of vacant available rental housing significantly exceeds the demand. A soft rental market exists if:
(i) There is currently a surplus of rental housing such that the current excess supply of vacant available housing, plus units currently under construction, is expected to exceed demand for at least the next 24 months; or
(ii) Within the next 12 months, based on the housing production (units currently under construction or with firm planning commitments), in combination with the current supply of available vacant units, supply is expected to exceed demand for at least 24 months.
(3) In order to determine whether the housing market area has a soft rental market, the Commissioner shall consider data from the 1990 Decennial Census and the most recent available local data concerning changes in population, households, employment, the housing inventory, residential construction activity, and the current and anticipated supply/demand conditions within the overall rental market, as well as the occupancy and vacancy situation in assisted housing projects in the area, including information on waiting lists and the experience of voucher holders in finding units.
(4) A determination must also be made on whether the prepayment would materially affect the housing opportunities of low and very-low income families in the area, based on the specific characteristics of the project including unit sizes, the type of tenants, e.g., elderly, handicapped, large families, minorities, the location of the project with respect to its proximity to employment opportunities; and the availability of other assisted housing within the immediate area. The prepayment would be determined to materially affect housing opportunities if:
(i) The project is needed to assist in preserving low income housing in a neighborhood which is being revitalized;
(ii) The project represents a rare source or the only source of low-and moderate-income rental housing in the immediate area;
(iii) There is a shortage of the particular type of rental housing provided by the project such as units suitable for the disabled, single room occupancy, or units for large families;
(iv) The preservation of the housing would be necessary to avoid adversely affecting the housing opportunities of low and very-low income families to find housing near employment opportunities; or
(v) The preservation of the housing would be necessary to avoid adversely affecting the housing opportunities of minorities in the community within which the housing is located.
(d) Once the Commissioner has compiled the necessary data and conducted
the analysis under paragraph (c) of this section the Commissioner shall issue a written finding to the owner stating whether the plan of action to terminate the low income affordability restrictions is approved or disapproved. The written finding shall contain a specific determination of whether the market area is a soft rental market and prepayment would materially affect housing opportunities. The written finding shall include:
(1) A statement as to whether the owner has agreed to execute a use agreement to protect current tenants, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) A description of the geographic boundaries of the housing market area in which the project is located;
(3) An analysis of current and anticipated supply/demand conditions in both the overall rental market and the assisted housing inventory; and
(4) A discussion of whether the prepayment would materially affect the housing opportunities, given the specific characteristics of the project.
(e)
Disapproval.
If the Commissioner determines a plan of action to prepay a mortgage or terminate an insurance contract fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner shall disapprove the plan and within a reasonable time, shall inform the owner of the reasons for disapproval and suggest alternatives. In the case of disapproval of the plan of action, except for the failure to meet the requirement of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the notice of intent filed under § 248.105 shall be rendered ineffective for the purposes of this subtitle, and the owner, in order to receive incentives, must file a new notice of intent under such section. If the plan of action is disapproved because of an outstanding civil rights or audit finding, the finding must be closed before the Commissioner will approve a plan of action under this section.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37815, July 13, 1993; 64 FR 26639, May 14, 1999]
§ 248.145
Criteria for approval of a plan of action involving incentives.
(a)
Approval.
The Commissioner may approve a plan of action for extension of the low income affordability restrictions on an eligible low income housing project or for transfer of the housing to a qualified purchaser, other than a resident council acquiring the project under a resident homeownership plan, only upon a finding that—
(1) Due diligence has been given to ensuring that the package of incentives set forth in the plan of action is, for the Federal Government, the least costly alternative that is consistent with the full achievement of the purposes of this subpart.
(2) The project will be retained as housing affordable for very low, low and moderate income families and persons, as determined under paragraph (a)(8) of this section, for the remaining useful life of the project;
(3) Throughout the remaining useful life of the project, adequate expenditures will be made for maintenance and operation of the project and the project meets the housing standards established in § 248.147 as determined by inspections conducted by the Commissioner;
(4) Current tenants will not be involuntarily displaced, except for good cause;
(5) Any increase in rent contributions for current tenants will be to a level that does not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of the tenant or the fair market rent, whichever is lower. However, the rent contributions of any tenants occupying the project at the time of any increase may not be reduced by reason of this paragraph, except with respect to tenants receiving section 8 assistance in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section;
(6) Any resulting increase in rents for current tenants (except for increases made necessary by increased operating costs) shall be phased in as follows:
(i) If such increase is 30 percent or more, the increase shall be phased in equally over a period of not less than three years, with the first increase occurring upon the effective date of the plan of action, and the subsequent two increases occurring annually thereafter;
(ii) If such increase is more than 10 percent but less than 30 percent, it shall be limited to not more than 10 percent per year;
(7) Section 8 assistance shall be provided, to the extent appropriations are available, if necessary to mitigate any adverse effect on current very low and low income tenants;
(8) Rents for units becoming available to new tenants shall be at levels approved by the Commissioner, taking into account any incentives provided under subpart B of this part, that will ensure, to the extent practicable, that the units will be available and affordable to the same proportions of very low, low and moderate income families and persons, including families and persons whose incomes are 95 percent or more of area median income, as based on the area median income limits established by the Commissioner in February 1987, as resided in the project as of the date of the tenant income profile submitted under § 248.135(e)(5), or the date the plan of action is approved, whichever date results in the highest proportion of very low income families. This limitation shall not prohibit a higher proportion of very low income families and persons from occupying the project;
(9) Future rent adjustments shall be—
(i) Made by applying an annual factor, to be determined by the Commissioner, to the portion of rent attributable to operating expenses for the project, and, where the owner is a priority purchaser, to the portion of rent attributable to project oversight costs, as that term is defined in § 248.101; and
(ii) Subject to a procedure, established by the Commissioner, for owners to apply for rent increases not adequately compensated by annual adjustment under paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section, under which the Commissioner may increase rents in excess of the amount determined under paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section only if the Commissioner determines such increases are necessary to reflect extraordinary necessary expenses of owning and maintaining the project;
(10) Any savings from reductions in operating expenses due to management efficiencies shall be deposited in project reserves for replacement and the owner shall have periodic access to such reserves, to the extent the Commissioner determines that the level of the reserves is adequate and that the project is maintained in accordance with the standards established in § 248.147;
(11) The mortgage on the project is current; and
(12) There are no open audit findings, open findings of noncompliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 652); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794); and all regulations promulgated under such statutes and authorities (including, but not limited to, 24 CFR part 100), or outstanding violations of the regulatory agreement.
(b)
Compliance with housing standards.
No incentives under § 248.153 may be provided, other than to qualified purchasers under §§ 248.157 and 245.161, and no distributions may be taken by the owner or purchaser, until the Commissioner determines that the project meets the housing standards set forth in § 248.147, except that incentives designed to correct deficiencies in the project may be provided.
(c)
Implementation.
Any agreement to maintain the low income affordability restrictions for the remaining useful life of the project may be made through execution of a new regulatory agreement, modifications to the existing regulatory agreement or mortgage, or in the case of prepayment of a mortgage or voluntary termination of mortgage insurance, a recorded instrument.
(d)
Determination of remaining useful life.
The Commissioner shall make determinations, on the record and after opportunity for a hearing, as to when the useful life of an eligible low income housing project has expired. Under procedures and standards to be established by the Commissioner, owners of eligible low income housing may petition the Commissioner for a determination that the useful life of such project has expired. Such petition may not be filed before the expiration of the 50-year period beginning upon the approval of a plan of action under subpart B of this part with respect to such project. In making a determination pursuant to a petition under paragraph (d) of this
section, the Commissioner shall presume that the useful life of the project has not expired, and the owner shall have the burden of proof in establishing such expiration. The Commissioner may not determine that the useful life of any project has expired if such determination results primarily from failure to make regular and reasonable repairs and replacement, as became necessary. In making a determination regarding the useful life of any project pursuant to a petition submitted under paragraph (d) of this section, the Commissioner shall provide for comment by tenants of the project and interested persons and organizations with respect to the petition. The Commissioner shall also provide the tenants and interested persons and organizations with an opportunity to appeal a determination under paragraph (d) of this section.
(e) In the case of any plans of action involving incentives the owner must agree to comply with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 652); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); section 504 of the Rehabilitiation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) (including the Department's Accessibility Guidelines (24 CFR chapter I, subchapter A, appendix II) and all regulations issued pursuant to these authorities.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 57314, Dec. 3, 1992; 58 FR 37815, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.147
Housing standards.
(a)
Standards.
As a condition to receiving incentives under subpart B of this part, the owner shall agree to maintain the project in accordance with local housing codes and the housing quality standards set forth in § 886.307 of this title. Where a housing quality standard conflicts with local housing codes, the owner shall maintain the project in compliance with the standard that is stricter.
(b)
Annual inspections.
The Commissioner shall inspect each project at least annually in order to determine compliance with the housing quality standards. At least 30 days prior to the inspection, the Commissioner shall notify any tenant representatives, or if none exist, the Commissioner shall provide the owner with a notice to be posted in each affected building, stating the time and date of the inspection and advising any interested tenants that they may accompany HUD personnel on the inspection and/or submit any comments they may have on the physical condition of the project. The Commissioner shall notify the owner of any deficiencies within 30 days following the inspection. The owner shall have 90 days from the date of such notification to correct any deficiencies cited by the Commissioner and shall promptly notify the Commissioner when such deficiencies have been corrected. The Commissioner shall reinspect the project upon such notification or, if the owner does not notify the Commissioner, upon the expiration of the 90-day period.
(c)
Sanctions for noncompliance.
If the Commissioner determines, upon reinspection of the project, that the project is still not in compliance with the standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner shall take any action appropriate to bring the project into compliance, including—
(1) Directing the mortgagee, with respect to an equity take-out loan provided under part 241 of this chapter, to withhold the disbursement to the owner of any escrowed loan proceeds and requiring that such proceeds be used for repair of the project; and
(2) Reduce the amount of the allowable distributions to 4 percent of extension preservation equity or (in the case of a purchaser 4 percent of cash invested, as appropriate, for the period ending upon a determination by the Commissioner that the project is in compliance with the standards and requiring that such amounts be used for repair.
(d)
Continued compliance.
To ensure continued compliance with the standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section for a project subject to any action under paragraph (c) of this section, the Commissioner may limit access of and use by the owner of such amounts set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, for not more than the 2-
year period beginning upon the determination that the project is in compliance with the housing standards.
(e)
Sanctions for continuous noncompliance.
If, upon inspection, the Commissioner determines that any eligible low income housing project has failed to comply with the standards established under this section for two consecutive years, the Commissioner may, upon notification to the owner of the noncompliance, take one or more of the following actions;
(1) Subject to the availability of appropriations, provide assistance, other than project-based assistance attached to the project, under part 982 of this title for any tenant eligible for such assistance who desires to terminate occupancy in the project. For each unit in the project vacated pursuant to the provision of assistance under this paragraph, the Commissioner may, notwithstanding any other law or contract for assistance, cancel the provision of project-based assistance attached to the project for one dwelling unit, if the project is receiving such assistance, or convert the project-based assistance allocation for that unit to assistance under part 982 of this title;
(2) In the case of projects for which an equity take-out loan has been made under part 241 of this chapter, direct the mortgagee to declare such a loan to be in default and accelerate the maturity date of the loan;
(3) Declare, or direct the insured mortgagee to declare, any rehabilitation loan insured or provided by the Commissioner with respect to the project, including loans provided under part 219 of this chapter, to be in default and accelerate the maturity date of the loan; and
(4) Suspend payments under or terminate any contract for project-based rental assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(f)
Sanctions not exclusive.
The Commissioner may take any other action authorized by law or the project regulatory agreement to ensure that the project will be brought into compliance with the standards established under this section or with other requirements pertaining to the condition of the project.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 64 FR 26639, May 14, 1999]
§ 248.149
Timetable for approval of a plan of action.
(a)
Notification of deficiencies.
Not later than 60 days after receipt of a plan of action, the Commissioner shall notify the owner in writing of any deficiencies that prevent the plan of action from being approved. Such notice shall describe alternative ways in which the plan may be revised to meet the criteria for approval set forth in § 248.145.
(b)
Notification of approval.
Not later than 180 days after receipt of a plan of action, or such longer period as the owner requests, but not more than 365 days, the Commissioner shall notify the owner in writing whether the plan of action, including any revisions, is approved. If approval is withheld, the notice shall describe—
(1) The reasons for withholding approval; and
(2) Suggestions to the owner for meeting the criteria for approval.
(c)
Opportunity to revise.
The Commissioner shall give the owner a reasonable opportunity of not more than 60 days to revise the plan of action when approval is denied. If the owner fails to comply with this time period, it shall not be eligible for relief under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Delayed approval.
If the Commissioner fails to approve a plan of action within the time set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commissioner shall provide incentives and assistance under subpart B of this part, to an owner who is entitled to receive such incentives and assistance, in the amount that the owner would have received if the Commissioner had complied with such time limitations. Paragraph (d) of this section does not apply to plans of action that are not approved because of deficiencies.
§ 248.153
Incentives to extend low income use.
(a)
Agreements by the Commissioner.
After approving a plan of action filed pursuant to § 248.145, from an owner of eligible low income housing that includes the owner's plan to extend the
low income affordability restrictions of the project, the Commissioner shall, subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, enter into such agreements as are necessary to enable the owner to—
(1) Receive the annual authorized return for the project as determined under § 248.121 for each year after the approval of the plan of action;
(2) Pay debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) covering the project;
(3) Pay debt service on any loan for rehabilitation of the project;
(4) Meet project operating expenses; and
(5) Establish adequate reserves.
(b)
Permissible incentives.
Such agreements may include one or more of the following incentives, as determined necessary by the Commissioner:
(1) Increased access to residual receipts accounts as necessary to enable the owner to realize the annual authorized return;
(2) An increase in the rents permitted under an existing project-based section 8 contract;
(3) Additional project-based section 8 assistance or an extension of any project-based assistance attached to the housing;
(4) An increase in the rents on non-section 8 units occupied by current tenants up to the maximum allowable rents;
(5) Financing of capital improvements under part 219 of this chapter;
(6) Financing of rehabilitation through provision of insurance for a second mortgage under part 241 of this chapter;
(7) Redirection of the Interest Reduction Payment subsidies to a second mortgage for projects which are insured, assisted, or held by the Commissioner or a State or State agency under part 236 of this chapter;
(8) Access by the owner to a portion of the preservation equity in the project through provision of insurance for an acquisition or equity loan insured under part 241, subpart E of this chapter or through a non-insured mortgage loan approved by the Commissioner and the mortgagee;
(9) An increase in the amount of allowable distributions up to the annual authorized return; and
(10) Other incentives authorized in law.
(c)
Limitation on the provision of permissible incentives.
(1) The total amount of incentives provided to a project under paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section shall not result in a projected rental income stream which exceeds the Federal cost limit.
(2) The debt service on the loan obtained by the owner under paragraph (b)(8) of this section, when added to the allowable distributions under paragraph (b)(9) of this section, shall not exceed the annual authorized return.
(d)
Rent phase-in period.
To the extent necessary to ensure that owners receive the annual authorized return during the tenant rent phase-in period established in § 248.145(a)(6), the Commissioner shall permit owners to receive the following additional incentives:
(1) Access to residual receipts accounts;
(2) Deferred remittance of excess rent payments; and
(3) Increases in rents, as permitted under an existing Section 8 contract.
These incentives shall be provided to owners in the order listed. An owner will not be eligible to receive these additional incentives unless it can demonstrate that it is not receiving the annual authorized return. Once an owner has adequately demonstrated that it is not receiving the annual authorized return, the Commissioner will provide the owner with each incentive in turn during the rent phase-in period, until it has been determined that the owner is receiving the annual authorized return.
(e)
Interest reduction subsidies.
Where Interest Reduction Payment subsidies are sought to be redirected, pursuant to paragraph (b)(7) of this section, the lender may not unreasonably withhold its consent to such redirection.
(f)
Recalculation of section 236 basic rent and market rent.
With respect to any project with a mortgage insured or otherwise assisted pursuant to part 236 of this chapter, the basic rent and market rent, as defined in § 236.2 of this chapter, for each unit in such project may be increased to take into account the allowable distributions permitted
under this section and the debt service on any equity loan, rehabilitation loan or acquisition loan approved under a plan of action under subpart B of this part.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37815, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.157
Voluntary sale of housing not in excess of Federal cost limit.
(a)
Offer to sell.
Where an owner has submitted a second notice of intent under § 248.133 for the purpose of transferring the project to a qualified purchaser, and the transfer preservation rent does not exceed the Federal cost limit, the owner shall offer the housing for transfer as provided in this section. The owner shall not be obligated to accept any offer made under this section, but may instead elect to retain the project and receive incentives under § 248.145.
(b)
Notification of qualified purchasers.
Upon receipt of a second notice of intent to transfer the project to a qualified purchaser, the Commissioner shall notify potential qualified purchasers of the availability of the project for sale, and of the names and addresses of the owner, or of a person representing the owner in the sale of the project, by—
(1) Mailing notices to non-profit organizations;
(2) Placing notices in the major local newspaper(s) in the jurisdiction in which the project is located;
(3) Mailing notices to clearinghouse networks; and
(4) Using any other means of notification which the Commissioner determines would be effective to notify potential qualified purchasers of the sale of the project.
(c)
Right of first offer to priority purchasers.
(1) For the 6-month period beginning on the date of receipt by the Commissioner of a second notice of intent under § 248.133, the owner may accept a bona fide offer only from:
(i) A resident council intending to purchase the project under §§ 248.173 or 248.175, which has met the requirements for tenant support, pursuant to those sections;
(ii) A resident council intending to purchase the project and retain it as rental housing, which has the support of a majority of the tenants; or
(iii) A community-based nonprofit organization which has the support of a majority of the tenants.
(2) If no bona fide offer to purchase the project is made and accepted during or at the end of the 6-month period specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the owner may offer to sell the project during the next 6 months to any priority purchasers.
(3) If no bona fide offer to purchase the project is made and accepted during or at the end of the 6-month period specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the owner may offer to sell the project during the 3 months immediately following that period only to qualified purchasers.
(d)
Purchase price.
The sale price, including assumption of the debt on the federally-assisted mortgage(s), or the amount of the debt on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) that the project is taken subject to, may not exceed the transfer preservation value of the project.
(e)
Expression of interest.
Any priority purchaser seeking to make an offer during the 6-month periods specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall, and other qualified purchasers may, submit written notice thereof to the Commissioner. Such notice, if made by a priority purchaser seeking to make an offer during either 6-month priority purchaser marketing period, shall contain the following:
(1) A statement identifying the priority purchaser as a State or local government agency, a nonprofit organization, or a resident council;
(2) A copy of its articles of incorporation, charter and list of officers and directors, if the purchaser is a nonprofit organization or a resident council and in the case of a nonprofit organization, proof that the organization is, or has applied to be, a tax exempt organization in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 501(c); and
(3) A statement as to whether the purchaser is affiliated with any other entity for purposes of purchasing the project and whether any Low Income Housing Tax Credits may be awarded in connection with the purchase of the project.
(f)
Information from the Commissioner.
Within 30 days of receipt of an expression of interest by a priority purchaser, the Commissioner shall determine the status of the priority purchaser with respect to the categories listed in paragraph (h) of this section, and provide such purchaser with:
(1) A list of all possible assistance available from the Federal Government to facilitate a transfer of the project;
(2) The appraisal reports for the project as submitted under § 248.111;
(3) The Commissioner's determination as to the priority status of the purchaser and as to whether the purchaser qualifies as a resident council, community-based nonprofit organization or State or local government entity;
(4) A worksheet indicating the level of the earnest money deposit required upon the submission of a bona fide offer;
(5) An acknowledgment of the purchaser's right to inspect the project; and
(6) Any other relevant financial information that the Commissioner possesses concerning the project, including the information determined under § 248.121.
Within the same 30-day period, the Commissioner shall also notify the owner of the purchaser's expression of interest and instruct the owner to provide to the purchaser any information concerning the project that the Commissioner deems relevant to the transfer of the project.
(g)
Bona fide offer.
A bona fide offer is an offer to purchase eligible low-income housing at a sales price which does not exceed the transfer preservation value of the project.
(1) A bona fide offer must include the following:
(i) A contract of sale signed by the purchaser, which states that acceptance of the contract is contingent upon approval by the Commissioner;
(ii) An earnest money deposit from every qualified purchaser equal to the lesser of one percent of the transfer preservation value, $50,000 or $500 per unit, unless the purchaser is a resident council purchasing the project under a resident homeownership plan under § 248.173 or § 248.175, in which case the earnest money deposit shall be equal to $200 per unit from 75% of the occupied units; and
(iii) If the purchaser is a resident council intending to purchase the project pursuant to a resident homeownership plan, the information required under § 248.173(b); or
(iv) If the purchaser is a resident council intending to retain the project as rental housing, or a community-based nonprofit and the offer is submitted within the marketing period established in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a resolution of the resident council, or a petition signed by tenants representing a majority of the units indicating their support of the offer.
(2) An owner may waive the requirement of an earnest money deposit or agree to accept a smaller deposit for all qualified purchasers, except resident councils who intend to purchase the project pursuant to a resident homeownership plan under § 248.173 or § 248.175. In order to be effective:
(i) The waiver must be indicated in the second notice of intent submitted under § 248.133 and the waiver must apply equally to all qualified purchasers, except resident councils who intend to purchase the project pursuant to a resident homeownership plan under § 248.173 or § 248.175; or
(ii) If the second notice of intent has already been submitted, the owner must submit to the Commissioner, in writing, its decision to waive the earnest money deposit. The Commissioner shall notify all qualified purchasers who have submitted an expression of interest under paragraph (e) of this section that the owner has waived the earnest money deposit requirement.
(h)
Retention and acceptance of offers.
The owner shall accept or reject any bona fide offer within 30 days of receipt of such offer. For an offer to be bona fide, it must meet the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section, as well as be submitted to the owner within the appropriate marketing period under paragraph (c) of this section. If an owner rejects any offer, it must return the earnest money deposit to the offeror at the time of rejection. A bona fide offer which is rejected by the owner will still be considered a bona fide offer for purposes of this section, even after
the earnest money deposit has been returned. If an owner decides to accept the offer at a later date, the purchaser may renew the offer by resubmitting the earnest money deposit, if a deposit had originally been required, within 30 days of notification of the owner's acceptance of the offer.
(i)
Submission of offer to HUD.
The purchaser shall submit the offer to the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall review the offer which is preliminarily accepted by the owner to determine whether it meets the requirements of a bona fide offer. The Commissioner shall notify the owner and purchaser, within 30 days after acceptance, whether the offer meets such requirements. The owner's preliminary acceptance of any offer pursuant to this section shall be conditional upon the Commissioner's certification that the offer is bona fide. If the Commissioner determines that the offer is not a bona fide offer, the offer will be considered invalid for the purposes of subpart B of this part.
(j)
Submission of plan of action.
Upon a determination by the Commissioner that the offer is bona fide and final acceptance of such an offer, the owner and purchaser shall jointly submit a plan of action to the Commissioner pursuant to § 248.135. The plan of action shall include any request for assistance from the Commissioner for purposes of transferring the project.
(k)
Requirements for plan of action approval.
If the qualified purchaser of the project is a resident council seeking to purchase the project under a resident homeownership program, the Commissioner may approve a plan of action only if the resident council's proposed resident homeownership program meets the requirements under § 248.173 or § 248.175. For all other qualified purchasers, the Commissioner may approve a plan of action submitted pursuant to this section only if the plan of action meets the criteria listed in § 248.145.
(l)
Failure to consummate sales transaction.
(1) If the owner accepts an offer from a priority purchaser during either of the two 6-month periods specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and before the expiration of the period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the sales transaction either falls through or does not close within 90 days after the Commissioner's approval of the plan of action, the owner shall:
(i) Immediately notify the Commissioner that the sale has fallen through;
(ii) Notify any other purchaser that had submitted an offer to purchase the project; and
(iii) Resume holding the project open for sale for the remainder of the time periods specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If the owner accepts an offer from a purchaser, and during the 3-month period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, or thereafter, the sales transaction either falls through or does not close within 90 days after the Commissioner's approval of the plan of action, the owner shall take the following steps:
(i) Immediately notify the Commissioner that the sale has fallen through;
(ii) Contact any other purchaser that had submitted an offer to purchase the project and give such purchaser and any other qualified purchaser 60 days from the date of notification to the Commissioner in which to resubmit an offer to purchase the project.
(3) At any time during the 60-day period the owner may accept an offer submitted under paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(4) If an offer submitted during the 60-day period specified in paragraph (l)(2) of this section is made and accepted, but the sale is not consummated within 90 days of the Commissioner's approval of the plan of action for reasons not attributable in whole or in part to the owner, the owner may terminate the low-income affordability restrictions through prepayment or voluntary termination, subject to compliance with the provisions of § 248.165.
(m)
Assistance.
Subject to the availability of amounts approved in appropriation acts, the Commissioner shall, for approvable plans of action, provide assistance sufficient to enable qualified purchasers to:
(1) Acquire the eligible low income housing project from the current owner for a purchase price not greater than the transfer preservation value of the project;
(2) Pay the debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) covering the project;
(3) Pay the debt service on any loan for the rehabilitation of the project;
(4) Meet project operating expenses and establish adequate reserves for the housing, and in the case of a priority purchaser, meet project oversight costs;
(5) Receive a distribution equal to an 8 percent annual return on any actual cash investment made to acquire or rehabilitate the project;
(6) In the case of a priority purchaser, receive reimbursement for all reasonable transaction expenses associated with the acquisition, loan closing and implementation of an approved plan of action; and
(7) In the case of an approved resident homeownership program, cover the costs of training for the resident council, homeownership counseling and training, the fees for the nonprofit entity or public agency working with the resident council, if such entity or agency is approved by the Commissioner, and costs related to relocation of tenants who elect to move. Assistance for such costs, exclusive of relocation expenses, shall not exceed $500 per unit or $200,000 for the project, whichever is less.
(n)
Incentives.
The Commissioner may provide assistance for all qualified purchasers under this subpart in the form of one or more of the incentives authorized under § 248.153. The incentives provided by the Commissioner to any qualified purchaser may include an acquisition loan under subpart E of part 241 of this chapter.
(o)
Grants to priority purchasers.
The Commissioner may provide assistance for priority purchasers under subpart B of this part in the form of a grant for each unit in the project in an amount, as determined by the Commissioner, that does not exceed the present value of the total of the projected fair market rent for the next ten years, or such longer period if additional assistance is necessary to cover the costs set forth in paragraph (m) of this section.
(p)
Reimbursement of assistance.
The Commissioner reserves the right to seek reimbursement from a priority purchaser who, within ten years of approval of a plan of action, becomes affiliated with or transfers the project to any non-priority purchaser. The Commissioner shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for the difference between the assistance provided to the priority purchaser and the assistance that would have been provided in the same circumstances to a non-priority purchaser.
(q)
Seller financing.
In order to finance the acquisition or rehabilitation of a project under this section, a qualified purchaser may receive take-back financing from the owner of the project. If the purpose of the seller financing is to aid acquisition of the project, the principal amount of such financing, together with an acquisition loan provided under part 241 of this chapter, may not exceed the transfer preservation equity of the project, plus, in the case of priority purchasers, any expenses associated with the acquisition, loan closing, and implementation of the plan of action. If the purpose of the seller financing is to fund rehabilitation of the project, the principal amount of such financing may not exceed the equity requirements for a rehabilitation loan under § 241.70 or § 219.305 of this chapter. The seller may not charge interest on any seller financing at a rate in excess of that of the Federal acquisition or rehabilitation loan.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.161
Mandatory sale of housing in excess of the Federal cost limit.
(a)
In general.
With respect to any eligible low income housing for which the transfer preservation rent determined under § 248.121 exceeds the Federal cost limit, the owner shall offer the housing for transfer to qualified purchasers as provided in this section.
(b)
Applicability of voluntary sale provisions.
The provisions of § 248.157, other than paragraphs (a) and (p) of this section thereof, shall be applicable to any sale conducted under this section. If the owner receives an offer to purchase the project for a sale price equal to the transfer preservation value of the project, as determined under § 248.111, the owner shall be obligated to accept the offer upon its receipt and sell the
project to the purchaser. If the owner receives an offer to purchase the project for a sale price less than the transfer preservation value of the project, the owner may accept the offer, but is not obligated to do so. Any offer to purchase a project under this section for less than the transfer preservation value must comply with the requirements of a bona fide offer in § 248.101, except for the requirement that the sale price equal the transfer preservation value. At the time of submission of the offer, the potential purchaser must also submit the documentation required in § 248.157(g).
(c)
Section 8 assistance.
Subject to the availability of amounts approved in appropriation acts, the Commissioner shall, for approvable plans of action, provide assistance to qualified purchasers under part 886, subpart A of this title sufficient to produce a gross potential income equal to the amount determined by multiplying 120 percent of the prevailing rents in the relevant local market in which the project is located by the number of units in the project, according to appropriate unit size, and any other incentives authorized under § 248.153 that would have been provided to a qualified purchaser under § 248.157.
(d)
Grants to qualified purchasers.
From amounts made available by Congress, the Commissioner may make grants to assist in the completion of transfers under this section to any qualified purchasers. Any grant made pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall be in an amount not exceeding the difference between the amount of assistance provided under paragraph (c) of this section and the amount of assistance specified in § 248.157(m).
(e)
Securing State and local funding.
The Commissioner shall assist any qualified purchaser of a project pursuant to this section in securing funding and other assistance, including tax and assessment reductions from State and local governments to facilitate a transfer under this section.
§ 248.165
Assistance for displaced tenants.
(a)
Section 8 assistance.
Each low income family that is displaced as a result of the prepayment of the mortgage, or voluntary termination of an insurance contract, on eligible low income housing shall, subject to the availability of funds, be offered the opportunity to receive tenant-based assistance under the Housing Choice Voucher Program in accordance with part 982 of this title.
(b)
Notification of Commissioner.
The owner of any eligible low income housing project who prepays the mortgage or voluntarily terminates the mortgage insurance contract pursuant to subpart B of this part, shall notify the Commissioner of:
(1) The names and addresses of all of the tenants in the project who will be displaced;
(2) The size of the unit in which each of the displaced tenants is currently dwelling; and
(3) The names of all of the displaced tenants who are special needs tenants, as that term is defined in § 248.101, as well as a statement as to the nature of their special need.
The owner shall provide the Commissioner with this information within 30 days of identifying such tenants for displacement, but in no event less than 30 days prior to the date when the tenants must vacate the premises.
(c)
Relocation of displaced tenants.
The Commissioner shall coordinate with public housing agencies to ensure that any very low or low income family displaced from eligible low income housing as the result of prepayment of the mortgage or termination of the mortgage insurance contract on such project is able to acquire a suitable, affordable dwelling unit in the area where the project from which the displaced family is located. The Commissioner, upon receiving information from the owner under paragraph (b) of this section stating that certain tenants will be displaced, shall request from the public housing agencies located in the same area as the affected project, notices of vacancies in other affordable projects which would be suitable for the displaced tenants. The Commissioner shall convey the notices of vacancies to the tenants who will be displaced along with the addresses of the local public housing agencies.
(d)
Relocation expenses.
The Commissioner shall require the owner of eligible low income housing who prepays or terminates the insurance contract resulting in the displacement of tenants to pay 50 percent of the relocation expenses of each family which is relocated, except that the Commissioner shall increase such percentage to the extent that State or local law of general applicability requires a higher payment by the owner.
(e)
Continued occupancy.
Each owner who prepays the mortgage or terminates the mortgage insurance contract on eligible low income housing shall, as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, allow the tenants occupying units in such project on the date of submission of a notice of intent under § 248.105 to remain in the project for a period of three years, commencing on the date of prepayment or contract termination, at rent levels existing at the time of prepayment or termination, except for rent increases made necessary due to increased operating costs.
(f)
Replacement unit.
In any case in which the Commissioner requires an owner to allow tenants to occupy units under paragraph (e) of this section, an owner may fulfill the requirements of such paragraph by providing such assistance necessary for the tenant to rent a decent, safe, and sanitary unit in another project for the same 3-year period and at a rental cost to the tenant not in excess of the rental amount the tenant would have been required to pay to the owner in the owner's project, except that the tenant must freely agree to waive the right to occupy the unit in the owner's project. The provisions of paragraph (d) of this section requiring an owner who prepays or terminates an insurance contract to pay a portion of the relocation expenses incurred by displaced tenants shall also be applicable to tenants who relocate pursuant to this paragraph.
(g)
Applicability.
The provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section shall apply only to:
(1) All tenants in eligible low income housing projects located in a low-vacancy area; and
(2) Special needs tenants.
(h)
Low Vacancy Areas.
The Commissioner shall notify the owner, within 30 days of the owner's request to prepay under § 248.169, whether the project is located in a low vacancy area for purposes of paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Required acceptance of section 8 assistance.
Any owner who prepays the mortgage or terminates the mortgage insurance contract on eligible low income housing and maintains the project for residential rental occupancy may not refuse to rent, refuse to negotiate for the rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny the rental of a dwelling unit in such project to any person, or discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges or rental of a unit, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection therewith, because the person receives tenant-based assistance under the Housing Choice Voucher Program.
(j)
Regional pools.
In providing assistance under this section, the Commissioner shall allocate the assistance on a regional basis through the regional offices of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Commissioner shall allocate assistance under this section in a manner so that the total number of assisted units in each such region available for occupancy by, and affordable to, low income families and persons does not decrease because of the prepayment of a mortgage on eligible low income housing or the termination of an insurance contract on such project.
(k) This section shall only apply to prepayments and terminations occurring pursuant to §§ 248.157(l) and 248.169.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 64 FR 26639, May 14, 1999]
§ 248.169
Permissible prepayment or voluntary termination and modification of commitments.
(a)
In general.
Notwithstanding any limitations on prepayment or voluntary termination under subpart B of this part, an owner may terminate the low income affordability restrictions through prepayment or voluntary termination, subject to compliance with the provisions of § 248.165, under one of the following circumstances:
(1) The Commissioner approves a plan of action under § 248.153(a), but does not provide the assistance approved in such
plan and contained in an executed use agreement between the Commissioner and the owner, including section 8 assistance or a loan provided under part 219 of this chapter, but not including insurance of a rehabilitation or equity take-out loan under part 241 of this chapter, during the 15-month period beginning on the date of final approval of the plan of action;
(2) After the date that the project would have been eligible for prepayment pursuant to the terms of the mortgage, notwithstanding this part, the Commissioner approves a plan of action under § 248.157 or § 248.161, but does not provide the assistance approved in such plan, including section 8 assistance, a loan provided under part 219 of this chapter, a grant provided under § 248.157(o), or a grant under § 248.161(d), before the earlier of:
(i) The expiration of the 2-month period beginning on the commencement of the first fiscal year beginning after such final approval; or
(ii) The expiration of the 6-month period beginning on the date of final approval.
(3) The Commissioner approves a plan of action under §§ 248.157 or 248.161 for any eligible low income housing not covered by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but does not provide the assistance approved in such plan before the earlier of:
(i) The expiration of the 2-month period beginning on the commencement of the first fiscal year beginning after such final approval; or
(ii) The expiration of the 9-month period beginning on the date of final approval.
(4) An owner who intended to transfer the project to a qualified purchaser under § 248.157 or § 248.161, and fully complied with the provisions of such section,
(i) Did not receive any bona fide offers from any qualified purchasers within the applicable time periods; or
(ii) Received and accepted a bona fide offer from a qualified purchaser, but the sales transaction fell through for reasons not attributable in whole or in part to the owner, and the owner then complied with the requirements of § 248.157(l) and did not receive another bona fide offer from any qualified purchasers.
(b)
Section 8 assistance.
When providing section 8 assistance, the Commissioner may enter into a contract with an owner, contingent upon the future availability of appropriations, for the purpose of renewing expiring contracts for rental assistance as provided in appropriations acts, to extend the term of such rental assistance for such additional period or periods necessary to carry out an approved plan of action. The contract and approved plan of action shall provide that, if the Commissioner is unable to extend the term of such rental assistance or is unable to develop a revised package of incentives providing benefits to the owner comparable to those received under the original approved plan of action, the Commissioner, upon the request of the owner, shall take the following actions, subject to the limitations under the following paragraphs:
(1) Modify the binding commitments made pursuant to § 248.145(a)(2)-(10) that are dependent upon such rental assistance; or
(2) If the Commissioner determines that such modification is infeasible, permit the owner to prepay the mortgage and terminate the plan of action and any implementing use agreements or restrictions, but only if the owner agrees in writing to comply with the provisions of § 248.165.
(c)
Failure to provide section 8 assistance.
With regard to paragraph (b) of this section, the Commissioner shall notify the owner of an inability to either extend the term of section 8 rental assistance or to develop a revised package of incentives providing benefits comparable to those received under the original plan of action as soon as practicable upon discovering that fact. The owner shall inform the Commissioner in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the notice that, since the Commissioner is unable to fulfill the terms of the original plan of action, the owner intends to request that the Commissioner take action under paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section. The Commissioner shall, no later than 90 days from receiving the owner's notice, take action to extend the rental assistance
contract and to continue the binding commitments under § 248.145(a)(2)-(10).
§ 248.173
Resident homeownership program.
(a)
Formation of resident council.
Tenants seeking to purchase eligible low income housing in accordance with §§ 248.157 and 248.161 shall organize a resident council for the purpose of developing a resident homeownership program in accordance with standards established by the Commissioner. In order to fulfill the purposes of this section, the resident council shall work with a public or private nonprofit organization or a public body, including an agency or instrumentality thereof. Such organization shall have sufficient experience to enable it to help the tenants to consider their options and to develop the capacity necessary to own and manage the project, where appropriate, and shall be approved by the Commissioner.
(b)
Submission of expression of interest.
A resident council shall identify itself as such in an expression of interest submitted pursuant to § 248.157 or § 248.161 and shall state that, it is interested in purchasing the project pursuant to a homeownership program.
(c)
Bona fide offer.
When submitting an offer to purchase the project pursuant to this section, the resident council must simultaneously submit a certified list of project tenants representing at least 75 percent of the occupied units in the project, and representing at least 50 percent of all of the units in the project, who have expressed an interest in participating in the homeownership program developed by the resident council. An offer made without this certified list will not be considered a bona fide offer for the purposes of subpart B of this part.
(d)
Submission of a homeownership program.
(1) The resident council shall prepare a homeownership program acceptable to the Commissioner for giving all residents of the project an opportunity to become homeowners. The plan shall describe the major elements of, and schedules for, the homeownership program and demonstrate how the program complies with all applicable requirements of this section. The plan shall also describe the resident council's current abilities and proposed capacity-building activities to successfully carry out the homeownership program in compliance with this section. The homeownership program shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) The amount of grant funds requested from the Commissioner, and the expected amounts and sources of other funding;
(ii) The proposed use of the grant funds to be received from HUD and of all other funds, including proceeds from the sale of units to initial purchasers, consistent with paragraph (h) of this section;
(iii) A summary of major rehabilitation activities to be carried out, including repairs, replacements and improvements;
(iv) The price at which the resident council intends to transfer ownership interests in, or shares representing, units in the project, broken down by unit size and/or type; the factors that will influence the establishment of such price, including, but not limited to, the resident council's acquisition cost, estimated rehabilitation costs, capitalization of reserves and organizational costs; how the price arrived at by the resident council compares to the estimated appraised value of the ownership interests or shares; and the underwriting standard that the resident council plans to use, or reasonably expects a public or private lender to use, for potential tenant purchasers, consistent with paragraph (g)(2) of this section;
(v) The expected number of very low, low and moderate income tenants that will be initial owners under the program, consistent with paragraph (g)(1) of this section;
(vi) A pro forma analysis which demonstrates the financial feasibility and viability of the homeownership program, based on the required conditions specified in paragraph (g) of this section;
(vii) The financing arrangements that the tenants are expected to pursue or to be provided, including financing available through the resident council or a State or local governmental entity, and criteria for acceptability of conventional financing;
(viii) A description of the estimated costs expected to be paid by the homeowner at closing;
(ix) The type of homeownership contemplated, consistent with paragraph (f) of this section;
(x) How the marketing of currently vacant units and units occupied by nonpurchasing tenants that become vacant will affect the sales price and occupancy charges to purchasers;
(xi) A workable schedule of sale, subject to the limitations of paragraph (o) of this section, based on estimated tenant incomes;
(xii) Any restrictions on resale by homeowners over and above those specified in paragraph (i) of this section, and any restrictions on homeowners' equity, over and above those specified in paragraph (k) of this section;
(xiii) The qualifications of the resident council or the proposed management entity to manage the project, in compliance with paragraph (n) of this section;
(xiv) The expected number of non-purchasing tenants and their eligibility for section 8 rental assistance under paragraph (m)(2) of this section;
(xv) Expected scope and expenses of relocation activities, both for any temporary relocation due to rehabilitation as well as relocation assistance for nonpurchasing tenants, consistent with paragraph (m)(4) of this section;
(xvi) Expected scope and costs of technical assistance, training and counseling for the resident council, purchasers and non-purchasing tenants; and
(xvii) A certification that the resident council shall comply with the provisions of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 652); section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); and all regulations issued pursuant to these statutes and authorities.
(2) The Commissioner shall give the resident council a reasonable opportunity to revise the homeownership program if approval is denied.
(e)
Approval of a homeownership program; assistance provided.
(1) When the Commissioner determines that the homeownership program submitted by the resident council meets the requirements of this section, is financially feasible, and is the least costly alternative that is consistent with establishing a viable homeownership program, the Commissioner shall approve the program.
(2) In connection with an approved homeownership program the Commissioner shall provide assistance sufficient to pay the following costs:
(i) The debt service on the federally-assisted mortgage(s) covering the project, when such mortgage is assumed by the resident council;
(ii) The purchase price, which shall not exceed the transfer preservation value;
(iii) Transaction costs, as provided in § 248.157(m)(6);
(iv) Other costs, as provided in § 248.157(m)(7);
(v) The costs of rehabilitation;
(vi) The establishment of an adequate reserve for replacements; and
(vii) If necessary, the establishment of operating reserve escrows including contingencies against unexpected increases in expenses or shortfalls in homeowners' payments.
(3) Upon approval of the homeownership program, the Commissioner and the resident council shall enter into an agreement, which shall include, among other matters, procedures governing the drawdown of funds and remedies for noncompliance with the requirements of this section.
(f)
Method of conversion.
The Commissioner shall approve the method for converting the project to homeownership, which may involve acquisition of ownership interests in, or shares representing, the units in a project under any arrangement determined by the Commissioner to be appropriate, such as cooperative ownership, and fee simple ownership, including condominium ownership.
(g)
Required conditions.
The Commissioner shall require that the form of homeownership impose appropriate conditions, including conditions to assure that:
(1) To the extent practicable, the number of initial owners that are very low, low, and moderate income persons
at initial occupancy are of the same proportion of very low, low, and moderate income tenants (including families and persons whose incomes are 95 percent or more of area median income) as resided in the project on January 1, 1987 (or if the January 1, 1987 profile is unavailable, a certification from the owner stating its unavailability and a profile as of January 1, 1988, or, if that is also unavailable, a profile as of January 1, 1989) or as of the date of approval of the plan of action, whichever date results in the higher proportion of very low income families, except that the resident council may, at its option, increase the proportions of very low income and low income initial owners, however, no current tenant may be denied homeownership as a result of this paragraph;
(2) Projected debt service payments, occupancy charges and utilities payable by the owners shall not exceed 35 percent of the monthly adjusted gross income of the owners;
(3) The aggregate incomes of initial owners and other sources of funds for the project are sufficient to permit occupancy charges to cover the full operating costs of the project and any debt service; and
(4) Each initial owner occupies the unit it acquires for at least the initial 15 years of ownership, unless the resident council determines that the initial owner is required to move outside the market area due to a change in employment or an emergency situation.
(5) All units which remain as rental units, from the date of approval of the resident homeownership program, until they are purchased by an initial owner under the resident homeownership program, shall be maintained in accordance with § 248.145 (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), (a)(8), and (a)(9).
(h)
Use of proceeds from sales to eligible families.
The entity that transfers ownership interests in, or shares representing, units to eligible families, or another entity specified in the approved application, may use 50 percent of the proceeds, if any, from the initial sale for costs of the homeownership program, including improvements to the project, operating and replacement reserves for the project, additional homeownership opportunities in the project, and other project-related activities approved by the Commissioner. The remaining 50 percent of such proceeds shall be returned to the Commissioner for use under §§ 248.157 and 248.161, subject to the availability of appropriations. Such entity shall keep, and make available to the Commissioner, all records necessary to calculate accurately payments due the Commissioner under paragraph (h) of this section.
(i)
Restrictions on resale by homeowners.
Resale of a homeowner's interest in a project with an approved homeownership program may occur subject to any reasonable restrictions placed on such a transfer by the resident council and approved by the Commissioner.
(1)
Transfer permitted.
A homeowner may transfer the homeowner's ownership interest in the unit, subject to the right to purchase under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the requirement for the purchaser to execute a promissory note, if required under paragraph (i)(3) of this section and the restrictions on retention of sales proceeds in paragraph (k) of this section. An applicant may propose in its application, and HUD may approve, reasonable restrictions on the resale of units under the program.
(2)
Right to purchase.
Where a resident management corporation, resident council, or cooperative has jurisdiction over the unit, it shall have the right to purchase the ownership interest in the unit from the initial homeowner for the amount specified in a firm contract between the homeowner and a prospective buyer. Where a resident management corporation, resident council, or a cooperative exercises a right to purchase, it shall resell the unit to an eligible family within a reasonable period of time.
(3)
Promissory note required.
At closing, the initial homeowner shall execute a nonrecourse promissory note for a term of twenty years, in a form acceptable to HUD, equal to the difference between the fair market value of the unit and the purchase price, payable to the Commissioner, together with a mortgage securing the obligation of the note.
(i) With respect to a sale by an initial homeowner, the note shall require payment upon sale by the initial homeowner, to the extent proceeds of the sale remain after paying off other outstanding debt incurred in connection with the purchase of the property, paying any other amounts due in connection with the sale, including closing costs and transfer taxes, and paying the family the amount of its equity in the property, computed in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
(ii) With respect to a sale by an initial homeowner during the first six years after acquisition, the family may retain only the amount computed under paragraph (k) of this section. Any excess is distributed as provided in paragraph (1) of this section.
(iii) With respect to a sale by an initial homeowner six to twenty years after acquisition, the amount payable under the note shall be reduced by 1/168th of the original principal amount of the note for each full month of ownership by the family after the end of the sixth year. The homeowner may retain all other proceeds of the sale.
(j)
Execution of promissory note by subsequent purchaser.
Where a subsequent purchaser during the 20-year period, measured by the term of the initial promissory note, purchases the property for less than the then current fair market value, the purchaser shall also execute at closing such a promissory note and mortgage, for the amount of the discount. The term of the promissory note shall be the period remaining of the original 20-year period. The note shall require payment upon sale by the subsequent homeowner, to the extent proceeds of the sale remain after paying off other outstanding debt incurred in connection with the purchase of the property, and paying any other amounts due in connection with the sale (such as closing costs and transfer taxes). The amount payable on the note shall be reduced by a percentage of the original principal amount of the note for each full month of ownership by the subsequent homeowner. The percentage shall be computed by determining the percentage of the term of the promissory note that the homeowner has owned the property. The remainder may be retained by the subsequent homeowner selling the property.
(k)
Homeowners' equity.
The amount of equity an initial homeowner has in the property is determined by computing the sum of the following:
(1) The contribution to equity paid by the family, if any, including any down payment and any amount paid towards principal on a mortgage loan during the period of ownership;
(2) The value of any improvements installed at the expense of the family during the family's tenure as owner, as determined by the resident council based on evidence of amounts spent on the improvements, including the cost of material and labor; and
(3) The appreciated value, determined by applying the Consumer Price Index (urban consumers) against the contribution to equity under paragraphs (k) (1) and (2) of this section, excluding the value of any sweat equity or volunteer labor used to make improvements to the unit. The resident council may, at the time of initial sale, enter into an agreement with the family to set a maximum amount which this appreciation may not exceed.
(l)
Use of recaptured funds.
Any net sales proceeds that may not be retained by the homeowner under the homeownership program approved under this section shall be paid to the HOME Investment Trust Fund for the unit of general local government in which the project is located. If the project is located in a unit of general local government that is not a participating jurisdiction, as such term is defined in § 248.101, any such net sales proceeds shall be paid to the HOME Investment Trust Fund for the State in which the project is located. With respect to any proceeds transferred to a HOME Investment Trust Fund under paragraph (1) of this section, the Commissioner shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the proceeds shall be immediately available for eligible activities to expand the supply of affordable housing under section 212 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12742). The Commissioner shall monitor the HOME Investment Trust Fund for each State and unit of local government and shall require
maintenance of any records necessary to calculate accurately payments due under this paragraph (1) of this section.
(m)
Protection of nonpurchasing families.
Nonpurchasing families who continue to reside in a project subject to a homeownership program approved under this section shall be protected as follows:
(1)
Eviction.
No tenant residing in an eligible property on the date the Commissioner approves a plan of action may be evicted by reason of a homeownership program approved under this section. This does not preclude evictions for material violation of the terms of occupancy of the unit.
(2)
Section 8 assistance.
If a tenant decides not to purchase a unit, or is not qualified to do so, the Commissioner shall ensure that tenant-based assistance under the Housing Choice Voucher Program in accordance with part 982 of this title is available for use in that or another property by each tenant that meets the eligibility requirements thereunder.
(3)
Rent increases for ineligible tenants.
Rents for tenants who do not purchase a unit but are ineligible for assistance under paragraph (m)(2) of this section may be increased to a level that does not exceed 30 percent of the tenant's adjusted income or the section 8 existing fair market rent, whichever is lower. Rent increases shall be phased in in accordance with § 248.145(a)(6).
(4)
Relocation assistance.
The resident council shall also inform each tenant that if the tenant chooses to move, the resident council, as owner of the project, will pay relocation expenses in accordance with the approved homeownership program. The provisions of § 248.165 shall not apply to resident councils who are project owners pursuant to an approved homeownership program under this section.
(n)
Qualified management.
As a condition of approval of a homeownership program under subpart B of this section, the resident council shall have demonstrated its abilities to manage eligible properties by having done so effectively and efficiently for a period of not less than three years or by entering into a contract with a qualified management entity that meets such standards as the Commissioner may prescribe to ensure that the project will be maintained in a decent, safe and sanitary condition.
(o)
Timely homeownership.
The resident council shall acquire ownership of the project no later than 90 days after final approval of a plan of action pursuant to this section. The resident council shall transfer ownership of units in the project (other than units occupied by nonpurchasing tenants) to the tenants within a reasonable time thereafter, but in no event more than 4 years from the date of transfer of the project to the resident council. The Commissioner may seek contractual remedies against any resident council which fails to transfer ownership of all units within the 4-year period. During the interim period when the project continues to be operated and managed as rental housing, the resident council shall utilize written tenant selection policies and criteria that are approved by the Commissioner as consistent with the purpose of providing housing for very low income families. The resident council shall promptly notify in writing any rejected applicant of the grounds for any rejection.
(p)
Housing standards; inspections.
(1) Until the resident council has transferred all units in the project (other than those occupied by nonpurchasing tenants) to the initial purchasers, the project shall be maintained in accordance with the housing standards set forth in § 248.147.
(2) The Commissioner shall inspect the project at least annually in order to determine compliance with paragraph (p)(1) of this section.
(q)
Audits.
Each resident council shall be subject to the audit requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, and shall submit an annual audit to the Commissioner in such form as the Commissioner may prescribe. The resident council shall keep such records as may be reasonably necessary to fully disclose the amount and the disposition by such resident council of the proceeds of assistance received under subpart B of this part, including any proceeds from sales under paragraphs (h) and (l) of this section, the total cost of the homeownership program in connection with which such assistance is
given or used, and the amount and nature of that portion of the program supplied by other sources, and such other sources as will facilitate an effective audit.
The Commissioner or his or her duly authorized representative shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records of the resident council that are pertinent to assistance received under subpart B of this part. The Comptroller General of the United States, or any of the duly authorized representatives of the Comptroller General, shall also have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any books, documents, papers, and records of the resident council that are pertinent to assistance received under subpart B of this part.
(r)
Reports.
The resident council shall submit reports, as required by the Commissioner, in order to demonstrate continued compliance with the requirements of this section.
(s)
Assumption of the federally assisted mortgage(s).
In connection with a resident homeownership plan, the resident council may assume a mortgage insured, held or assisted by the Commissioner under part 236 of this chapter or under part 221 of this chapter and bearing a below market interest rate as provided under § 221.518(b) of this chapter or may choose to pay off the mortgage. If the resident council decides to assume the mortgage, the project must be sold pursuant to § 248.175 and the project must be operated as a limited equity cooperative.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993; 64 FR 26639, May 14, 1999; 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 248.175
Resident homeownership program—limited equity cooperative.
(a) Tenants may carry out a resident homeownership program through the purchase of eligible low income housing by a limited equity cooperative and the operation of the project as a limited equity cooperative.
(b) The purchase of a project by a limited equity cooperative and the operation of the project by the limited equity cooperative shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of § 248.173 (a), (b), (c), (d), (except that paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shall include a statement of the amount and type of incentives requested, rather than only the amount of grant funds requested), (e), (g)(3), (i) (except paragraphs (i)(1) and (3)), (m) and (n).
(c) The purchase and operation of eligible low income housing by a limited equity cooperative under this section shall be carried out in accordance with all provisions of subpart B of this part otherwise, applicable to the transfer and operation of a project with continued low income affordability restrictions, except as provided in this section.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.177
Delegated responsibility to State agencies.
(a)
In general.
The Commissioner shall delegate some or all responsibility for implementing subpart B of this part to a State housing agency if such agency submits a preservation plan acceptable to the Commissioner.
(b)
Approval.
State preservation plans shall be submitted in such a form and in accordance with such procedures as the Commissioner shall establish. The Commissioner may approve plans that contain:
(1) An inventory of low income housing located within the State that is or will be eligible low income housing under subpart B of this part within five years;
(2) A description of the agency's experience in the area of multifamily financing and restructuring;
(3) A description of the administrative resources that the agency will commit to the processing of plans of action in accordance with subpart B of this part;
(4) A description of the administrative resources that the agency will commit to the monitoring of approved plans of action in accordance with subpart B of this part;
(5) An independent analysis of the performance of the multifamily housing inventory financed or otherwise monitored by the agency;
(6) A certification by the public official responsible for submitting the consolidated plan under 24 CFR part 91
that the proposed activities are consistent with the approved consolidated plan of the State within which the eligible low income housing is located; and
(7) Such other certifications or information that the Commissioner determines to be necessary to implement an approved State preservation plan, which may include incentives that are authorized under other provisions of subpart B of this part.
(c)
Implementation agreements.
The Commissioner may enter into any agreements necessary to implement an approved State preservation plan, which may include incentives that are authorized under other provisions of subpart B of this part.
(d)
Fees.
Any State agency with responsibility so delegated under subpart B of this part may not charge any owner of eligible low income housing any fee for accepting notices of intent, processing plans of action or any other process pursuant to approval of a plan of action under subpart B of this part. This prohibition shall not preclude:
(1) An owner paying for its appraisal or share of a joint appraisal under the provisions of § 248.111; or
(2) A State agency from collecting fees normally associated with providing and processing financing insured under part 241 of this chapter.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 16379, Mar. 30, 1995]
§ 248.179
Consultation with other interested parties.
The Commissioner shall confer with any appropriate State or local government agency to confirm any State or local assistance that is available to achieve the purposes of subpart B of this part and shall give consideration to the views of any such agency when making determinations under subpart B of this part. The Commissioner shall also confer with appropriate interested parties that the Commissioner believes could assist in the development of a plan of action that best achieves the purposes of subpart B of this part.
§ 248.181
Notice to tenants.
Except as provided in §§ 248.105 and 248.133, with respect to the first and second notices of intent, with regard to all provisions of subpart B of this part which mandate that information or material be given to the tenants, by the Commissioner, the owner, or a qualified purchaser, or other party, this requirement shall be satisfied where the notifying entity:
(a) Posts a copy of the information or material in readily accessible locations within each affected building, or posts notices in each location describing the information or material and specifying a location, as convenient to the tenants as is reasonably practical, where a copy may be examined and copied during reasonable hours; and
(b) Supplies a copy of the information or material to a tenant representative, if any.
§ 248.183
Preemption of State and local laws.
(a)
In general.
No State or political subdivision of a State may establish, continue in effect, or enforce any law or regulation that:
(1) Restricts or inhibits the prepayment of any mortgage described in § 248.101 or the voluntary termination of any insurance contract pursuant to § 207.253 of this chapter on eligible low income housing projects;
(2) Restricts or inhibits an owner of such projects from receiving the authorized annual return provided under § 248.121;
(3) Is inconsistent with any provision of subpart B of this part, including any law, regulation, or other restriction that limits or impairs the ability of any owner of eligible low income housing to receive incentives authorized under subpart B of this part, including authorization to increase rental rates, transfer the project, obtain secondary financing, or use the proceeds of any such incentives; or
(4) In its applicability to low income housing is limited only to eligible low income housing for which the owner has prepaid the mortgage or terminated the insurance contract.
(b)
Effect.
Any law, regulation or restriction described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be ineffective and any eligible low income housing exempt from the law, regulation, or restriction, only to the extent that it violates the provisions of this section.
(c)
Laws of general applicability: contractual restrictions.
This section shall not prevent the establishment, continuing in effect, or enforcement of any law or regulation of any State or political subdivision of a State not inconsistent with the provision of this subpart, such as any law or regulation relating to building standards, zoning limitations, health, safety, or habitability standards for housing, rent control, or conversion of rental housing to condominium or cooperative ownership, to the extent such law or regulation is of general applicability to both projects receiving Federal assistance and nonassisted projects. This section shall not preempt, annul or alter any contractual restrictions or obligations existing before November 28, 1990 or voluntarily entered into by an owner of eligible low income housing on or after that date, and that limit or prevent that owner from prepaying the mortgage on the project or terminating the mortgage insurance contract.
[57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 57314, Dec. 3, 1992]

# Subpart C—Prepayment and Plans of Action Under the Emergency Low Income Preservation Act of 1987

# Source:
55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992.
§ 248.201
Definitions.
The terms
Fair Market Rent (FMR)
and
Section 8
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Adjusted Income.
Annual income, as specified in § 251.21 of this chapter, less allowances specified in the definition of
Adjusted Income
in § 215.1 of this chapter.
Allowable Distributions.
The amount of cash or other assets that the owner may withdraw from the project under the terms of the regulatory agreement, applicable regulations, and administrative instructions, including the segregation of cash or assets for subsequent withdrawal, and excluding repayment of advances made for reasonable and necessary expenses incident to the operation and maintenance of the project.
Capital Improvement Loan.
A direct loan originated by the Commissioner under part 219, subpart C of this chapter.
Eligible Low Income Housing.
Any housing financed by a mortgage—
(a) That is—
(1) Insured or held by the Commissioner under section 221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act and assisted under part 886, subpart A of this title because of a conversion from assistance under part 215 of this chapter;
(2) Insured or held by the Commissioner under part 221 of this chapter and bearing a below market interest rate as provided under § 221.518(b) of this chapter;
(3) Insured, assisted, or held by the Commissioner or a State or State agency under part 236 of this chapter; or
(4) A purchase money mortgage held by the Commissioner with respect to a project which, immediately prior to HUD's acquisition, would have been classified under paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this definition; and
(b) That, under regulation or contract in effect before November 1, 1987, is, or within one year from the date of the notice of intent would become, eligible for prepayment without the prior approval of the Commissioner.
Equity.
The Owner's investment in the housing project, as approved or determined by the Commissioner.
Equity Loan.
A loan insured by the Commissioner under part 241, subpart E of this chapter.
Flexible Subsidy Assistance.
Assistance provided by the Commissioner under part 219 of this chapter, other than a capital improvement loan.
Good Cause.
Temporary or permanent uninhabitability of the project justifying relocation of all or some of the project's tenants (except where such uninhabitability is caused by the actions or inaction of the owner), or actions of the tenant that, under the terms of the tenant's lease and applicable regulations, constitute a basis for eviction.
Limited Equity Cooperative.
A cooperative housing corporation in which income eligibility of purchasers or appreciation upon resale of membership
shares, or both, are restricted in order to maintain the housing as available to and affordable by low and moderate income families and persons.
Low Income Affordability Restrictions.
Limits imposed by regulation or regulatory agreement on tenant rents, rent contributions, or income eligibility with respect to eligible low income housing.
Low-Income Families.
Families or persons whose incomes do not exceed the levels established for low-income families under part 5 of this title.
Moderate Income Families.
Families or persons whose incomes are between 80 percent and 95 percent of median area income, as determined by the Commissioner with adjustments for smaller and larger families.
Mortgage.
The mortgage or deed of trust insured or held by the Commissioner or a State or State agency under parts 221 or 236 of this chapter, or the purchase money mortgage taken back by the Commissioner in connection with the sale of a HUD-owned project and held by the Commissioner, where such mortgage, deed of trust or purchase money mortgage is secured by eligible low income housing.
Notice of Intent.
An owner's notification of its intent to seek prepayment of its mortgage, termination of the mortgage insurance contract or amendment of the mortgage or regulatory agreement pursuant to this part.
Owner.
The mortgagor or trustor under the mortgage secured by eligible low income housing.
Plan of Action.
A plan providing for prepayment of the mortgage, termination of the mortgage insurance contract, or continuation of the mortgage in place, and providing for either the termination of low income affordability restrictions, or the continuation of the project's use as low-income housing under modified terms and conditions.
Prepayment.
Prepayment in full of a mortgage, or a partial prepayment or series of partial prepayments that reduce the mortgage term by at least six months, except where the prepayment in full or partial prepayment results from the application of condemnation proceeds.
Project oversight costs.
Reasonable expenses incurred by a nonprofit purchaser in carrying out its ongoing ownership responsibilities under an approved plan of action. Project oversight costs must be directly related to educating the nonprofit purchaser's board of directors or otherwise supporting the board in its decision making. Project oversight costs may include staff, overhead, or third-party contract costs for:
(1) Ensuring adequate and responsible participation by the board of directors and the membership of the nonprofit purchaser in ownership decisions, including ensuring resident input in these decisions;
(2) Facilitating long-range planning by the board of directors to ensure the physical, financial and social viability of the project for the entire time the project is maintained as low income housing; and
(3) Assisting the ownership in complying with regulatory, use, loan and grant agreements.
Regulatory Agreement.
The agreement executed by the owner and the Commissioner or a State agency providing for the Commissioner's regulation of the operation of the project.
Reserve for Replacements.
The escrow fund established under the regulatory agreement for the purpose of ensuring the availability of funds for needed repair and replacement costs.
Residual Receipt Fund.
The fund established under the regulatory agreement for holding cash remaining after deducting from the surplus cash, as defined by the regulatory agreement, the amount of all allowable distributions.
Return on Investment.
The amount of allowable distributions, tax benefits, and other income or benefits received by the owner, as a percentage of the equity.
Termination of Low Income Affordability Restrictions.
The elimination of low income affordability restrictions under the regulatory agreement through termination of mortgage insurance or prepayment of the mortgage.
Use Agreement.
An agreement or covenant which is executed and recorded
in the appropriate land records in connection with an approved plan of action, has lien priority over other mortgages and liens, is binding upon the owner and its successors and assigns, is enforceable by the Commissioner and by tenants, contains appropriate reporting requirements, and restricts or governs the use and operation of the project with respect to rent levels and increases, relocation, and, where appropriate, tenant eligibility, civil rights and other requirements. All tenants in occupancy at the time that the plan of action is approved will receive a copy of the use agreement.
Very Low Income Families.
Families or persons whose incomes do not exceed the level established for very low income families under section 3(b) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
[55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated at 57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, and amended at 57 FR 57314, Dec. 3, 1992; 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993; 61 FR 5207, Feb. 9, 1996; 64 FR 26639, May 14, 1999]
§ 248.203
General prepayment limitation.
(a) An owner of eligible low income housing may prepay, and a mortgagee may accept prepayment of, a mortgage on such housing only in accordance with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner.
(b) A mortgage insurance contract with respect to eligible low income housing may be terminated pursuant to section 229 of the National Housing Act only in accordance with a plan of action approved by the Commissioner.
(c) A mortgagee's acceptance of a prepayment in violation of paragraph (a) or termination of a mortgage insurance contract in violation of paragraph (b) of this section is grounds for administrative action under parts 24 and 25 of this title, in addition to any other remedies available by law, including rescission of the prepayment or reinstatement on the insurance contract.
§ 248.211
Notice of intent to prepay.
(a) An owner of eligible low-income housing seeking to prepay its mortgage or to negotiate changes in the terms of the mortgage or regulatory agreement in accordance with this part, including termination of the insurance contract pursuant to section 229 of the National Housing Act, shall file a notice of intent with the HUD field office in whose jurisdiction the project is located, and shall file a duplicate copy with the HUD Headquarters Office of Multifamily Housing Management, 451-7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. The notice of intent shall identify the project by name, project number and location, briefly describe the owner's plans for the project, including any timetables or deadlines for actions to be taken, and the reason the owner seeks to prepay the mortgage or change the terms of the mortgage or regulatory agreement, and briefly describe any contacts that the owner has made or is making with other governmental agencies or other interested parties in connection with the notice of intent.
(b) An owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with:
(1) The chief executive officer of the appropriate State or local government in which the project is located, or any officer designated by executive order or State or local law to receive such information;
(2) Each tenant in the project; and
(3) The mortgagee.
In addition, the owner shall post a copy of the notice of intent in each occupied building in the project.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice of intent, the Commissioner will provide the owner with information that the owner needs to prepare a plan of action. This information shall include information regarding the Commissioner's standards under § 248.221 of this part regarding the approval of a plan of action involving termination of low income affordability restrictions, and any relevant market area and demographic information that the Secretary has custody of and that the owner may use in preparing the plan of action; in addition, it shall include at a minimum a list of the Federal incentives authorized under § 248.231 of this part for those projects for which a plan of action involving termination of low income affordability restrictions would not be approvable.
(d) Filing a notice of intent with the Commissioner will lead to one of the following results:
(1) Where the project meets the requirements of § 248.221 of this part—
(i) The Commissioner will approve the prepayment or the termination of mortgage insurance pursuant to § 248.221 of this part, and all low income affordability restrictions will be terminated with respect to some or all of the units; however, the owner would be responsible for ensuring that displaced current tenants are relocated to affordable housing, if necessary.
(ii) The Commissioner will approve the prepayment or termination of mortgage insurance pursuant to § 248.221 of this part, and all low income affordability restrictions will be terminated, except (where necessary because the project is located in a housing market where there is insufficient comparable, decent, safe and sanitary affordable housing to meet the needs of all current tenants) with regard to protection of current very low income, low income and moderate income tenants;
(2) Where the plan of action would not be approvable under § 248.221 of this part—
(i) The Commissioner will approve prepayment or the termination of mortgage insurance, but the owner will receive assistance under a State, local or other Federal government housing program, and will receive incentives pursuant to § 248.231 of this part from the Federal government in return for agreeing to conditions related to the continued use of the project as low income housing in accordance with § 248.233 of this part.
(ii) The Commissioner will not approve prepayment or the termination of mortgage insurance, but will provide incentives to the owner pursuant to § 248.231 of this part in accordance with a plan of action meeting the standards of § 248.233 of this part;
(iii) The Commissioner will not approve prepayment or the termination of mortgage insurance, but, after failing to reach agreement on a negotiated plan of action, the owner and the Commissioner will agree to a package of incentives and restrictions prescribed by § 248.241 of this part; or
(iv) The Commissioner will not approve prepayment or the termination of mortgage insurance, and will not offer incentives of any kind.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0378)
[55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated at 57 FR 12041, Apr. 8, 1992, and amended at 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.213
Plan of action.
(a)
Preparation and submission.
The owner shall submit the plan of action to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The owner may submit the plan of action simultaneously to any appropriate State or local government agency, which shall, in reviewing the plan, consult with representatives of the tenants of the housing. An owner shall submit the plan of action to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the Commissioner shall prescribe. The owner shall notify the tenants of the plan of action by posting in each occupied building a summary of the plan of action and by delivery of a copy of the plan of action to the tenant representative, if any. In addition, the summary must indicate that a copy of the plan of action shall be available from the tenant representatives, whose names, addresses and telephone numbers are indicated on the summary, the local HUD field office, and the on-site office for the project, or if one is not available, in the location where rents are collected, for inspection and copying, at a reasonable cost, during normal business hours. Simultaneously with the submission to the Commissioner, the owner shall submit the plan of action to that officer of State or local government to whom the owner submitted a notice of intent under § 248.211(b). The summary of the plan of action posted by the owner and the copies of the plan of action submitted to the tenant representative and the officer of State or local government shall all state that, upon request, the tenants and the State or local government, may obtain from the owner or from the local HUD field office a copy of all documentation supporting the plan of action except for that documentation deemed “proprietary information” under § 248.101.
(b)
Contents.
The plan of action shall include:
(1) A description of any proposed changes in the status or terms of the mortgage or regulatory agreement, which may include a request for incentives to extend the low income use of the housing, as authorized under § 248.231 of this part; or may include a request to terminate the insurance contract.
(2) A description of any assistance that could be provided by State or local government agencies, as determined by prior consultation between the owner and the agencies;
(3) A description of any proposed changes in the low income affordability restrictions;
(4) A description of any proposed changes in ownership related to the plan of action, prepayment or termination of mortgage insurance;
(5) An assessment of the effect of the proposed changes on existing tenants.
(6) In the case of a plan of action involving incentives, an appraisal using the residential income approach;
(7) In the case of a plan of action involving the termination of low income affordability restrictions, a statement of the effect, if any, of the proposed changes on the supply of housing affordable to low and very low income families in the community within which the housing is located and in the area that the housing could reasonably be expected to serve; and
(8) A market study which demonstrates that the project is located in a market area that would enable the Commissioner to make the findings set forth at § 248.221(b)(1); and
(9) A list of any waivers requested by the owner pursuant to § 248.7 of this part; and
(10) Any other information which the owner may choose to submit which would enable the owner to meet the criteria for approval of the proposed plan of action.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0378)
[55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 12041, 12060, Apr. 8, 1992; 58 FR 37816, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.215
Notification of deficiencies.
Not later than 60 days after receipt of a plan of action, the Commissioner will notify the owner in writing of any deficiencies that prevent the plan of action from being approved. If deficiencies are found, the notice shall describe ways, if any, in which the plan of action could be revised to meet the criteria for approval.
§ 248.217
Revisions to plan of action.
The owner may from time to time revise the plan of action before its approval as may be necessary to obtain the commissioner's approval thereof. An owner shall submit any revision to the Commissioner, and provide a copy of the revision and all documentation supporting the revision except for that documentation deemed “proprietary information” under § 248.101, to the parties, and in the manner, specified in § 248.213(a).
[58 FR 37817, July 13, 1993]
§ 248.218
Tenant notice and opportunity to comment.
When the owner and the Commissioner have reached preliminary agreement on the terms of a plan of action, the Commissioner shall prepare a summary of such terms and the anticipated impact of the plan of action on the current tenants. The owner shall send a copy of the summary to each tenant in the project, and shall post a copy of the summary in each occupied building in the project. The summary shall notify tenants that they have sixty calendar days in which to submit any comments to the Commissioner, who shall take any such comments into account before giving final approval to the plan of action.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0378)
§ 248.219
Notification of approval.
(a) Not later than 180 days after initial receipt of a plan of action, or within such longer period as the owner requests, the Commissioner shall notify the owner in writing whether the plan of action, including any revisions, is approved.
(b) If approval is withheld, the notice will—
(1) Describe the reasons for withholding approval, including prolonged delay by the owner in submitting a revised plan of action;
(2) Describe the actions that could be taken to meet the criteria for approval; and
(3) Afford the owner a reasonable opportunity to revise the plan of action and seek approval.
§ 248.221
Approval of a plan of action that involves termination of low income affordability restrictions.
The Commissioner may approve a plan of action that involves termination of the low income affordability restrictions only upon a written finding that—
(a) Implementation of the plan of action will not materially increase economic hardship for current tenants (and will not in any event result in: (1) A monthly rental payment by a current tenant that exceeds 30 percent of the monthly adjusted income of the tenant or an increase in the monthly rental payment in any year that exceeds 10 percent, whichever is lower, or (2) in the case of a current tenant who already pays more than such percentage, an increase in the monthly rental payment in any year that exceeds the increase in the Consumer Price Index or 10 percent, whichever is lower) or involuntarily displace current tenants (except for good cause) where comparable and affordable housing is not readily available, determined without regard to the availability of Federal housing assistance that would address any such hardship or involuntary displacement. Notwithstanding this limitation, the Commissioner may provide housing assistance to tenants if such assistance is not essential to the Commissioner's determination that the requirements of this paragraph have been met. The owner will agree to execute and allow the recordation of use agreements, where such agreements are necessary to safeguard current tenants against such adverse effects. Such use agreements will include a requirement that the owner comply with those provisions of part 247 of this chapter which relate to evictions; and
(b)(1) The supply of vacant, comparable housing is sufficient to ensure that the prepayment will not materially affect—
(i) The availability of decent, safe and sanitary housing affordable to low-income and very low income families in the area that the housing could reasonably be expected to serve;
(ii) The ability of low-income and very low income families to find decent, safe and sanitary housing near employment opportunities; or
(iii) The housing opportunities of minorities in the community within which the housing is located; or
(2) The plan of action has been approved by the appropriate State agency and any appropriate local government agency for the jurisdiction in which the housing is located as being in accordance with a State strategy approved by the Commissioner under § 248.223 of this part.
(c) There are no open audit findings, open findings of noncompliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 652); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794); and all regulations promulgated under such statutes and authorities (including, but not limited to, 24 CFR part 100), or outstanding violations of the regulatory agreement.
(d) Any plan of action approved under this section shall specify actions that the Commissioner and the owner shall take to ensure that tenants displaced as a result of the termination of low income affordability restrictions are relocated to affordable housing.
[55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 12041, 12060, Apr. 8, 1992]
§ 248.223
Alternative State strategy.
(a) The Commissioner may approve a State strategy providing for State approval of plans of action that involve termination of low income affordability restrictions only upon finding that it is a practicable statewide strategy that ensures at a minimum that—
(1) Current tenants will not be involuntarily displaced (except for good cause);
(2) Housing opportunities for minorities will not be adversely affected in the communities in which the housing is located;
(3) Any increase in rent for current tenants will be to a level that does not
exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of the tenants or fair market rent, whichever is lower, and any increase not necessitated by increased operating costs shall be phased in equally over not less than 3 years if the increase exceeds 10 percent;
(4) Housing approved under the State strategy will remain affordable to very low income, low income and moderate income families for not less than the remaining term of the mortgage, if the housing is to be made available for rental use, or for not less than 40 years, if the housing is to be made available for homeownership;
(5)(i) Not less than 80 percent of all units in eligible low income housing approved under the State strategy will be retained as affordable to families or persons meeting the income eligibility standards for initial occupancy that applied to housing on January 1, 1987; and
(ii) Not less than 60 percent of the units in any one project will remain available to and affordable by such families or persons, within which not less than 20 percent of the units will remain available to and affordable by very low income families;
(6) Expenditures for rehabilitation, maintenance and operation will be at a level necessary to maintain the housing as decent, safe and sanitary and for the period specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(7) Not less than 25 percent of new assistance required to maintain the housing as available to and affordable by low income families in accordance with this section shall be provided through State and local actions, such as tax exempt financing, low income tax credits, State or local tax concessions, the provision of funds from housing finance agency reserves or housing trust funds, taxable bonds, and other incentives provided by the State or local governments; and
(8) For each unit of eligible low income housing approved under the State strategy that is not retained as affordable housing to families or persons meeting the income eligibility standards for initial occupancy on January 1, 1987, the State will provide, with State funds, one additional unit of comparable housing in the same market area that is available to and affordable by such families and persons. Such units will be provided by conversion of existing units or construction of new units. These units or funds will be made available before the Commissioner approves the State strategy.
(b)
Additional requirements.
(1) The State must enter into all agreements necessary to carry out the State strategy before receiving the Commissioner's approval.
(2) Each State strategy shall include any other provision that the Commissioner determines to be necessary to implement the approved State strategy.
§ 248.231
Incentives to extend low income use.
The Commissioner may agree to provide one or more of the following incentives to induce the project owner to extend the low income use of the project, if the Commissioner determines that such incentives are warranted under the standards in § 248.233 of this part:
(a) An increase in the allowable distribution, or other measures to increase the rate of return;
(b) Revisions to the method of calculating equity;
(c) Increased access to residual receipts funds or excess reserve for replacements funds;
(d) Provision of insurance for an equity loan;
(e) An increase in the rents permitted under an existing section 8 contract, within statutory and regulatory limits otherwise applicable, or (subject to the availability of amounts provided in appropriations Acts) additional assistance under section 8 or an extension of any project-based assistance attached to the housing;
(f) Provision of a capital improvement loan;
(g) Other actions to facilitate a transfer or sale of the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization, limited equity tenant cooperative, public agency, or other entity acceptable to the Commissioner, such as expedited review of a request for approval of a transfer of physical assets;
(h) Provision of flexible subsidy assistance;
(i) Termination of HUD's limitations on distributions, and release of residual receipts and reserve for replacements funds, through prepayment of the mortgage; and
(j) Any other incentives for which the owner is eligible.
§ 248.233
Approval of a plan of action that includes incentives.
The Commissioner may approve a plan of action that includes incentives, whether or not the plan of action allows for the prepayment of the mortgage, only upon a finding that—
(a) After taking into account local market conditions, the incentives are necessary to achieve the purposes of this part;
(b) The incentives are necessary to provide a fair rate of return to the owner. Incentives will only be provided in cases where the project's current use does not represent its highest and best use;
(c) The incentives are the least costly alternative for the Federal government to achieve the purposes of this part with respect to the housing;
(d) Binding commitments have been made to ensure that—
(1) The housing will be retained as housing affordable for very low income families, low-income families, and moderate income families for the remaining term of the mortgage;
(2) Throughout the remaining term of the mortgage, adequate expenditures will be made for the proper maintenance and operation of the housing;
(3) Current tenants will not be involuntarily displaced (except for good cause);
(4) Any increase in rent contributions for current tenants will be to a level that does not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of the tenant or the fair market rent, whichever is lower;
(5) Any resulting increase in rents for current tenants (except for increases made necessary by increased operating costs) will be phased in equally over a period of not less than 3 years, if the increase is 30 percent or more, and will be limited to not more than 10 percent per year, if the increase is more than 10 percent but less than 30 percent;
(6) Subject to the availability of funds, the Commissioner shall provide, and the owner shall accept, assistance under section 8 if the Commissioner determines that such assistance is necessary to mitigate any adverse effect of the rent increases on current tenants eligible for section 8 assistance; and
(7) Rents for units becoming available to new tenants will be at levels approved by the Commissioner that will ensure, to the extent practicable, that the units will be available to and affordable, with 30 percent of adjusted income, by the same proportion of very low income families, low-income families, and moderate income families as resided in the housing as of January 1, 1987 (based on the area median income limits established by the Commissioner in February 1987), or the date the plan of action is approved, whichever date results in the highest proportion of very low income families.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(7) of this section—
(A) The percentage of moderate income families in occupancy as of January 1, 1987 shall include families who were admitted to the project as very low income, low income, or moderate income families but whose incomes had increased beyond the limit for moderate income families by January 1, 1987; and
(B) The proportions established shall not prohibit a higher proportion of very low income families from occupying the housing.
(ii) In approving rents under paragraph (d)(7) of this section, the Commissioner will take into account any additional incentives provided under this part and will make provision for annual rent adjustments necessary as a result of future reasonable increases in operating costs.
(e) In cases where the owner agrees to maintain only a portion of the project as low income housing, the incentives provided under § 248.231 of this part and the standards imposed under this section shall be adjusted accordingly.
(f) The Commissioner shall not approve a plan of action under this section if there are open findings of noncompliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d); the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619); Executive Order 11063 (3 CFR 1959-1963
comp., p. 652); the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794); and all regulations promulgated under such statutes and authorities, or if there are open audit findings with respect to violations of the regulatory agreement.
[55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 12041, 12060, Apr. 8, 1992]
§ 248.234
Section 8 rental assistance.
(a) When providing rental assistance under section 8, the Commissioner may enter into a contract with an owner, contingent upon the future availability of appropriations for the purpose of renewing expiring contracts for rental assistance as provided in appropriations Acts, to extend the term of such rental assistance for such additional period or periods as is necessary to carry out an approved plan of action.
(b) The contract and the approved plan of action shall provide that, if the Commissioner is unable to develop a revised package of incentives providing benefits to the owner comparable to those received under the original approved plan of action, the Commissioner, upon the request of the owner, shall take the following actions (subject to the limitations under the following paragraphs):
(1) Modification of the binding commitments made pursuant to § 248.233(d) that are dependent on such rental assistance.
(2) If action under paragraph (b)(1) is not feasible, release of an owner from the binding commitments made pursuant to § 248.233(d) that are dependent on such rental assistance.
(3) If actions under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) would, in the determination of the Commissioner, result in the default of the insured loan, approval of the revised plan of action, notwithstanding § 248.221, that involves the termination of low-income affordability restrictions.
(c) The approved plan of action shall specify actions that the Commissioner and the owner shall take to ensure that any tenants displaced as a result of actions taken under paragraph (b) of this section are relocated to affordable housing.
(d) At least 30 days prior to making a request under the preceding sentence, an owner shall notify the Commissioner of the owner's intention to submit the request. The Commissioner shall have a period of 90 days following receipt of such notice to take action to extend the rental assistance contract and to continue the binding commitments under paragraph (b).
[55 FR 38952, Sept. 21, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 12041, 12060, Apr. 8, 1992]
§ 248.241
Modification of existing regulatory agreements.
(a) If a plan of action is not approved within 300 days after initial submission, the Commissioner may, upon request of the owner and upon making a determination that the project's current use does not represent its highest and best use, modify existing regulatory agreements to—
(1) Prevent involuntary displacement of current tenants (except for good cause);
(2) Ensure that adequate expenditures will be made for maintenance and operation of the housing;
(3) Extend (subject to the availability of funds) any expiring project-based assistance on the housing for the term of the agreement;
(4) Permit an increase in the allowable distribution that could be accommodated by an increase in the rents on occupied units to a level no higher than 30 percent of the adjusted income of the tenants, as determined by the Commissioner, except that rents shall not exceed the fair market rent, and any resulting increase in rents for current tenants shall be phased in equally over a period of no less than 3 years, unless such increase is less than 10 percent; and
(5) Ensure that units becoming vacant during the term of the agreement are made available in accordance with § 248.233(d)(7) of this part.
(b)
Expiration.
Agreements entered into under this section shall expire on February 5, 1992, unless earlier superseded by an agreement implementing a HUD-approved plan of action. Upon such expiration of the agreement on February 5, 1992, the housing covered by the agreement shall be subject to
any law then affecting low income affordability restrictions.
§ 248.251
Consultation with other interested parties.
The Commissioner will confer with any appropriate State or local government agency to confirm any State or local assistance that is available to achieve the purposes of this part and will give consideration to the views of the State or local agency when making the determinations under §§ 248.221 and 248.233 of this part. The Commissioner also will confer with other interested parties that the Commissioner believes could assist in the development of a plan of action that best achieves the purposes of this part.
§ 248.261
Agreements implementing plans of action and State strategies.
The Commissioner is authorized to enter into agreements, including those for the provision of incentives, necessary to implement any plan of action or State strategy approved by the Commissioner under this part.

# Subpart D—State Preservation Project Assistance

# Source:
57 FR 12060, Apr. 8, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 248.300
General.
Upon application by a State agency or a local public housing agency, the Commissioner may make available assistance for use in preventing the loss of housing affordable for low and moderate income families that is assisted under a State program under the terms of which the owner may prepay a State assisted or subsidized mortgage on such housing.
§ 248.301
Initial application.
A State agency shall make an initial application to the Commissioner which:
(a) Describes the manner by which the State housing program provides mortgage assistance or subsidy to private mortgagors to provide housing opportunities for low and moderate income families;
(b) Includes copies of the authorizing legislation, any implementing regulations and any administrative guidance provided to owners;
(c) Includes a comprehensive description of the terms and conditions under which a private owner may prepay the assisted or subsidized mortgage without the prior consent of the State agency;
(d) Includes a complete set of pro forma mortgage and/or regulatory documents which evidence an owner's ability to prepay the assisted or subsidized mortgage without the consent of the State agency;
(e) Includes a list of all properties assisted under the State or local housing program whose owners are eligible to prepay the assisted or subsidized mortgages without the consent of the State agency.
§ 248.303
Approval of a State agency's initial application.
(a) The Commissioner will evaluate the State agency's application and will notify the State agency within 90 days of receipt that the program and properties qualify under subpart D of this part or that the program and properties do not qualify under subpart D of this part.
(b) If the Commissioner determines that the program and projects do not qualify under subpart D of this part, it will state the reasons why the program and properties do not qualify and will give the State agency an opportunity to provide additional information, as the Commissioner determines, which would assist the Commissioner in qualifying the program and properties.
§ 248.305
Applicability of subpart B of this part.
The provisions of subpart B of this part shall be applicable to any application of a State agency or local housing authority for assistance under subpart D of this part, except the following provisions:
Sec.
248.103 General prepayment limitation.
248.105 Notice of intent.
248.131 Information from the Commissioner: Only paragraph (a).
248.141 Criteria for approval of a plan of action involving prepayment and voluntary termination.
248.153 Incentives to extend low income use: Only paragraphs (a)(7), (d) and (e).
248.165 Assistance for displaced tenants.
248.169 Permissible prepayment or voluntary termination and modification of commitments.
248.173 Resident homeownership program: Only paragraph (s).
248.177 Delegated responsibility to State agencies.
§ 248.307
Authority to process and approve notices of intent and plans of action.
(a)
Delegation of authority.
State agencies which regulate or otherwise supervise owners of projects with State assisted or subsidized mortgages shall have the authority, reserved to the Commissioner under subpart B of this part, to process and approve all notices of intent and plans of action submitted to the State agency or local housing authority under subpart D of this part. State agencies may redelegate such authority to local housing authorities at their discretion.
(b)
Designation of processing agency.
The Executive Director of the State agency whose State assisted or subsidized mortgage program has been approved under § 248.303 shall inform all owners of projects with State assisted or subsidized mortgages that the State agency or a designated local housing authority shall accept and process notices of intent and plans of action.
§ 248.311
Notice of intent.
(a)
Eligibility for filing.
An owner of a project with a State assisted or subsidized mortgage intending to extend the low income affordability restrictions of the housing in accordance with § 248.153 or transfer the housing to a qualified purchaser under § 248.157 may file a notice of intent.
(b)
Filing with the State agency.
The notice of intent shall be filed with the agency specified in § 248.307(b) or the agency which regulates or otherwise supervises the State assisted or subsidized mortgage. The notice of intent shall also request the tenants to notify the owner and the State agency of any individual or organization that has been designated or retained by the tenants to represent the tenants with respect to the actions to be taken under subpart B and subpart D of this part.
(c)
Filing with HUD, mortgagee and tenants.
The owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with the local HUD field office having jurisdiction over the area in which the project is located and with the mortgagee, if any. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the notice of intent to each tenant in the project and to any tenant representative, if any, known to the owner, and shall post a copy of the notice of intent in readily accessible locations within each affected building of the project. The copies of the notice of intent delivered to the tenants and the tenant representative shall include a summary of possible outcomes of the filing which shall be furnished by the State agency. Upon the request of any non-English speaking tenants residing in the affected project, the owner shall tabulate the number and type of translations needed by the tenants and request the State agency to provide the appropriate translations. The owner shall deliver a copy of the translated notice of intent to all of the tenants who requested such a translation. The failure of an owner to comply with any non-federal notice requirements shall not invalidate the notice of intent.
§ 248.315
Preservation agreements.
(a)
Agreements required.
Owners of projects with State assisted or subsidized mortgages whose plans of action have been approved under § 248.307 shall enter into agreements, contracts and/or mortgage modifications with the State agency or local housing authority to maintain the housing as affordable to tenants in accordance with § 248.145. Such agreements may provide for the renewal of any assistance made available under § 248.319(c).
(b)
Term of agreement.
Preservation agreements shall be coterminous with the expiration of any assistance provided under § 248.153 and made available in accordance with § 248.319(c).
§ 248.319
Application for assistance.
(a)
Application for assistance.
State agencies or local housing authorities shall submit an application for assistance in a form prescribed by the Commissioner with the local HUD field office having jurisdiction over the project. The application shall include:
(1) A copy of the approved plan of action, including all applicable notices of intent;
(2) A copy of any worksheet or other document which demonstrates the extension and transfer preservation values of the project, the Federal cost limits (including the determination of relevant local market rents if applicable), and the preservation rents;
(3) A request for each incentive required as part of the approved plan of action and the amount thereof;
(4) A demonstration and certification by the Executive Director of the State agency or local housing authority that the assistance and incentives requested as part of the approved plan of action do not exceed the level of incentives required for a similarly situated project which is eligible low income housing as defined in subpart B of this part;
(5) Copies of proposed agreements, contracts and mortgage modifications proposed pursuant to § 248.315.
(b)
Notification of approval.
Not later than 90 days after receipt of the application for assistance, the local HUD field office shall notify the Executive Director of the State agency or local housing authority of the approval or disapproval of the application. If the application is disapproved, the notification shall state the reasons therefor and afford the State agency or local housing authority the opportunity to revise the application to make it approvable.
(c)
Funding.
After approving the State agency's or local housing authority's application for assistance, the HUD field office shall make the assistance in the approved application available to the State agency or local housing authority within the time frames specified in § 248.169.
(d)
Agreements.
The State agency or local housing authority shall provide the local HUD field office with a copy of all agreements entered into with the owner pursuant to § 248.315.
(e)
Section 8 contract administration.
Any contract for Section 8 assistance made pursuant to the approved plan of action, the State agency's or local housing authority's application for assistance and the regulations at 24 CFR 886, subpart A shall be administered by the State agency or local housing authority pursuant to § 886.120 of this title.

# Subpart E—Technical Assistance and Capacity Building

# Source:
58 FR 37817, July 13, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 248.401
Purposes.
The purposes of this subpart are:
(a) To promote the ability of residents of eligible low income housing to participate meaningfully in the preservation process established by this part and affect decisions about the future of their housing;
(b) To promote the ability of community-based nonprofit organizations and resident councils to acquire, rehabilitate, and competently own and manage eligible housing as rental or cooperative housing for low and moderate income people; and
(c) To assist the Commissioner in discharging the obligation under § 248.157(b) to notify potential qualified purchasers of the availability of projects for sale and to otherwise facilitate the coordination and oversight of the preservation program established under this part.
§ 248.405
Grants for building resident capacity and funding predevelopment costs.
(a)
General.
Assistance made available under this subpart shall be used for direct assistance grants to resident organizations and community-based nonprofit housing developers and resident councils to assist the acquisition of specific projects (including payment of reasonable administrative expense to participating intermediaries.) Assistance made available under subpart E of this part will be distributed on a noncompetitive basis. HUD will publish a Notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the availability of assistance, as well as the application requirements and procedures and selection criteria that HUD will use in making the assistance available.
(b)
Allocation.
Thirty percent of the assistance made available under this
subpart shall be used for resident capacity grants in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The remainder shall be used for predevelopment grants in connection with specific projects in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Limitation on grant amounts.
A resident capacity grant under paragraph (d) of this section may not exceed $30,000 per project and a grant under paragraph (e) of this section for predevelopment costs may not exceed $200,000 per project, exclusive of any fees paid to a participating intermediary by the Commissioner for administering grants under this subpart.
(d)
Resident Capacity grants
—(1)
Use.
Resident capacity grants under paragraph (d) of this section shall be available to eligible applicants to cover expenses for resident outreach, incorporation of a resident organization or council, conducting democratic elections, training, leadership development, legal and other technical assistance to the board of directors, staff and members of the resident organization or council.
(2)
Eligible housing.
Grants under this paragraph (d) of this section may be provided with respect to eligible low income housing for which the owner has filed a notice of intent under subpart B or subpart C of this part.
(e)
Predevelopment grants
—(1)
Use.
Predevelopment grants under paragraph (e) of this section shall be made available to community-based nonprofit housing developers and resident councils to cover the cost of organizing a purchasing entity and pursuing an acquisition, including third party costs for training, development consulting, legal, appraisal, accounting, environmental, architectural and engineering, application fees, and sponsor's staff and overhead costs.
(2)
Eligible housing.
These grants may only be made available with respect to any eligible low income housing project for which the owner has filed a notice of intent to transfer the housing to a qualified purchaser in accordance with § 248.105 or § 248.211, or has filed a notice of intent and entered into a binding agreement to sell the housing to a resident organization or nonprofit organization.
(3)
Phase-in of grant payments.
Grant payments under paragraph (e) of this section shall be made in phases, based on performance benchmarks established by the Commissioner in consultation with intermediaries selected under § 248,415.
(f)
Grant applications.
Grant applications for assistance under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be received monthly on a rolling basis and approved or rejected on at least a quarterly basis by intermediaries selected under § 248.415(b).
(g)
Appeal.
If an application for assistance under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section is denied, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial to the Commissioner and receive a binding determination within 30 days of the appeal.
§ 248.410
Grants for other purposes.
The Commissioner may provide grants under this subpart E:
(a) To resident-controlled or community-based nonprofit organizations with experience in resident education and organizing for the purpose of conducting community, city or countywide outreach and training programs to identify and organize residents of eligible low income housing; and
(b) To State and local government agencies and nonprofit intermediaries for the purpose of carrying out such activities as the Commissioner deems appropriate to further the purposes of this part.
§ 248.415
Delivery of assistance through intermediaries.
(a)
General.
The Commissioner shall approve and disburse assistance under § 248.405 and § 248.410 through eligible intermediaries selected by the Commissioner under paragraph (b) of this section. If the Commissioner does not receive an acceptable proposal from an intermediary offering to administer assistance under this section in a given State, the Commissioner shall administer the program in such State directly.
(b)
Selection of eligible intermediaries
—(1)
In General.
The Commission shall invite applications from and shall select eligible intermediaries to administer assistance under subpart E of this
part through Notices of Funding Availability published in the
Federal Register.
The process shall include provision for a reasonable administrative fee.
(2)
Priority.
With respect to all forms of grants available under § 248.405, the criteria for selecting eligible intermediaries shall give priority to applications from eligible intermediaries with demonstrated expertise under subpart B or subpart C of this part.
(3)
Criteria.
The criteria developed under this section shall:
(i) Not assign any preference or priority to applications from eligible intermediaries based on their previous participation in administering or receiving Federal grants or loans (but may exclude applicants who have failed to perform under prior contracts of a similar nature);
(ii) Require an applicant to prepare a proposal that demonstrates adequate staffing, qualifications, prior experience, and a plan for participation; and
(iii) Permit an applicant to serve as the administrator of assistance made available under § 248.405(d) and (e), based on the applicant's suitability and interest.
(4)
Geographic coverage.
The Commissioner may select more than one State or regional intermediary for a single State or region. The number of intermediaries chosen for each State or region may be based on the number of eligible low income housing projects in the State or region, provided there is no duplication of geographic coverage by intermediaries in the administration of the direct assistance grant program.
(5)
National nonprofit intermediaries.
National nonprofit intermediaries shall be selected to administer the assistance made available under § 248.405 only with respect to State or regions for which no other eligible intermediary, acceptable to the Commissioner, has submitted a proposal to participate.
(6)
Preference.
With respect to assistance made available under § 248.410, preference shall be given to eligible regional, State and local intermediaries, over national nonprofit organizations.
(c)
Conflicts of interest.
Eligible intermediaries selected under paragraph (b) of this section to disburse assistance under § 248.405 shall certify that they will serve only as delegated program administrators, charged with the responsibility for reviewing and approving grant applications on behalf of the Commissioner. Selected intermediaries shall:
(1) Establish appropriate procedures for grant administration and fiscal management, pursuant to standards established by the Commissioner; and
(2) Receive a reasonable administrative fee, except that they may not provide other services to grant recipients with respect to projects that are the subject of the grant application and may not receive payment, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of grants they have approved.
§ 248.420
Definitions.
Community-based nonprofit housing developer
means a nonprofit community development corporation that:
(1) Has been classified by the Internal Revenue Service as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(2) Has been in existence for at least two years prior to the date of the grant application;
(3) Has a record of service to low and moderate income people in the community in which the project is located;
(4) Is organized at the neighborhood, city, county, or multi-county level; and
(5) In the case of a corporation acquiring eligible low income housing under subpart B of this part, agrees to form a purchaser entity that conforms to the definition of a community-based nonprofit organization under such subpart and agrees to use its best efforts to secure majority tenant consent to the acquisition of the project for which grant assistance is requested.
Eligible intermediaries.
For purposes of this subpart, the term “eligible intermediary” means a State, regional, or national nonprofit organization (including a quasi-public organization) or a State or local housing agency that:
(1) Has as a central purpose the preservation of existing affordable housing and the prevention of displacement;
(2) Does not receive direct Federal appropriations for operating support;
(3) In the case of a national nonprofit organization, has been in existence for at least five years prior to the date of application and has been classified by the Internal Revenue Service as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(4) In the case of a regional or State nonprofit organization, has been in existence for at least three years prior to the date of application and has been classified by the Internal Revenue Service as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or is otherwise a tax-exempt entity;
(5) Has a record of service to low income individuals or community-based nonprofit housing development in multiple communities and, with respect to intermediaries administering assistance under § 248.405, has experience with the allocation or administration of grant or loan funds; and
(6) Meets standards of fiscal responsibility established by the Commissioner.
Pt. 251

# PART 251—COINSURANCE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OR SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION OF MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS
Sec.
251.1
Termination of program.
251.2
GNMA right to assignment.
251.3
Case-by-case conversion to full insurance.
251.6
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715z-9; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).
§ 251.1
Termination of program.
(a) Effective on November 12, 1990, the authority to coinsure mortgages under this part is terminated, except that the Department
(1) Will honor legally binding and validly issued commitments issued before November 12, 1990 and
(2) Will accept for review the coinsurance applications described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Part 251, as it existed immediately before November 12, 1990, will continue to govern the rights and obligations of coinsured lenders, mortgagors, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development with respect to loans coinsured under this part.
(b) A precommitment review procedure applies to any application for mortgage coinsurance for which a lender has accepted a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990 under this part and for which a legally binding Conditional or Firm Commitment is proposed to be issued. This procedure applies to lenders with preliminary as well as full approval to process coinsurance applications and without regard to whether the lender is under probation. For any coinsurance application for which the lender has accepted an application and a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990, the lender shall, prior to commitment, submit to HUD headquarters and to the HUD field office with jurisdiction for the proposed project such exhibits and other information as has been specified in administrative instructions of the Commissioner. The lender shall not issue a commitment without written approval from the Commissioner. Field Offices shall not endorse any case covered by this precommitment review requirement unless the lender submits with the endorsement package evidence of the Commissioner's approval of the processing and evidence of compliance with any conditions imposed by the Commissioner.
(c) Extensions of commitments for projects which had outstanding legally binding commitments as of November 12, 1990 are limited as follows:
(1) Firm commitments for insurance of advances may be granted two 60-day extensions;
(2) Conditional commitments may be granted one 60-day extension;
(3) Firm commitments for insurance upon completion may not be extended.
However, should any underwriting conclusions be altered and reflected in the extension, the project must be submitted for precommitment review in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. In the event an extension is required beyond those provided for in this paragraph, the case will be subject to the precommitment review process described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Reopened expired commitments are subject to precommitment review under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) HUD considers a commitment to be
legally binding
if:
(1) It conforms to the format prescribed in the appropriate HUD Handbook and contains only such modifications as have been approved by HUD in writing;
(2) All required underwriting, analyses, reviews and approvals have been accomplished prior to issuance of the commitment;
(3) It conforms to HUD requirements pertaining to initial term and extension;
(4) It obligates the lender and HUD to proceed to the next stage (
i.e.,
firm commitment in the case of a conditional commitment, or endorsement in the case of a firm commitment) if the applicant mortgagor complies with all conditions of such commitment;
(5) It does not permit the lender to change unilaterally the conditions or terms of the commitment; and
(6) It is signed by an official of the coinsuring lender who has been designated and authorized in accordance with HUD requirements.
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0437)
[55 FR 41318, Oct. 10, 1990]
§ 251.2
GNMA right to assignment.
If the lender-issuer defaults on its obligations under the GNMA Mortgage-Backed Securities Program, GNMA will have the right to cause all Coinsured Mortgages held in GNMA pools by the defaulting coinsuring lender-issuer to be assigned to another GNMA-approved coinsuring lender-issuer, or to GNMA itself.
(a) For any Coinsured Mortgage that is not in default and is held by a defaulting lender-issuer, GNMA will have the right to perfect an assignment of the mortgage to itself. However, before exercising this right, GNMA will attempt to have the Mortgage assigned to another eligible coinsuring lender (unless GNMA determines, with the agreement of the Commissioner, that the attempt would prove ineffectual because of market conditions or other factors). This attempt will be undertaken by soliciting offers to assume the defaulting lender-issuer's rights and obligations under the Mortgage from those eligible coinsuring lenders that are also GNMA issuers and that are indicated on a periodically updated listing furnished to GNMA by the Commissioner.
(b) For any Coinsured Mortgage that is in default and held by a defaulting lender-issuer, GNMA will have the right to perfect an assignment of the Coinsured Mortgage directly to itself before extinguishing the Mortgage by completion of foreclosure action or acquisition of title by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
(c) GNMA, as assignee, will give the Commissioner written notice, within 30 days after taking a Mortgage by assignment in accordance with this section, in order to allow an appropriate endorsement and necessary changes in the Commissioner's records.
(d) The Commissioner will endorse any Mortgage assigned to GNMA as provided by this section for full insurance, effective as of the date of assignment in accordance with the appropriate provisions of 24 CFR part 221. Any future claim by GNMA, or any assignment of the fully insured Mortgage, will be governed by the appropriate provisions of 24 CFR part 221, except that any payment will be made in cash instead of debentures.
[59 FR 1475, Jan. 11, 1994]
§ 251.3
Case-by-case conversion to full insurance.
Upon the request of a coinsuring lender, the Commissioner may endorse a coinsured Mortgage for full insurance, effective as of the date of such endorsement, if the Commissioner is satisfied that:
(a) Continuing the Mortgage under coinsurance could jeopardize the lender's viability and ability to service its remaining portfolio of coinsured Mortgages;
(b) The lender has made reasonable efforts to work out any Mortgage default consistent under 24 CFR 251.811 (1990), but the remedies available to the lender have not been adequate to reinstate the Mortgage;
(c) The conversion would be less costly to HUD than if the Mortgage remained coinsured;
(d) The lender has paid HUD the fee set forth through
Federal Register
notice; and
(e) The lender agrees to give the Commissioner written notice under 24 CFR 207.258 of its intent to file an insurance claim upon the Commissioner's endorsement of the Mortgage for full insurance.
[61 FR 49038, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 251.6
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.
In the cases that the Commissioner deems appropriate, the Commissioner may require, by means of instructions communicated to all affected lenders, that mortgage insurance premiums be remitted electronically.
[63 FR 1303, Jan. 8, 1998]
Pt. 252

# PART 252—COINSURANCE OF MORTGAGES COVERING NURSING HOMES, INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES, AND BOARD AND CARE HOMES
Sec.
252.1
Termination of program.
252.2
GNMA right to assignment.
252.3
Case-by-case conversion to full insurance.
252.6
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 1715z-9; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).
§ 252.1
Termination of program.
(a) Effective on November 12, 1990, the authority to coinsure mortgages under this part is terminated, except that the Department
(1) Will honor legally binding and validly issued commitments issued before November 12, 1990, and
(2) Will accept for review the coinsurance applications described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Part 252, as it existed immediately before November 12, 1990, will continue to govern the rights and obligations of coinsured lenders, mortgagors, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development with respect to loans coinsured under this part.
(b) A precommitment review procedure applies to any application for mortgage coinsurance for which a lender has accepted a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990 under this part and for which a legally binding Conditional or Firm Commitment is proposed to be issued. This procedure applies to lenders with preliminary as well as full approval to process coinsurance applications and without regard to whether the lender is under probation. For any coinsurance application for which the lender has accepted an application and a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990, the lender shall, prior to commitment, submit to HUD headquarters and to the HUD field office with jurisdiction for the proposed project such exhibits and other information as has been specified in administrative instructions of the Commissioner. The lender shall not issue a commitment without written approval from the Commissioner. Field Offices shall not endorse any case covered by this precommitment review requirement unless the lender submits with the endorsement package evidence of the Commissioner's approval of the processing and evidence of compliance with any conditions imposed by the Commissioner.
(c) Extensions of commitments for projects which had outstanding legally binding commitments as of November 12, 1990 are limited as follows:
(1) Firm commitments for insurance of advances may be granted two 60-day extensions;
(2) Conditional commitments may be granted one 60-day extension;
(3) Firm commitments for insurance upon completion may not be extended.
However, should any underwriting conclusions be altered and reflected in the extension, the project must be submitted for precommitment review in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. In the event an extension is required beyond those provided for in this paragraph, the case will be subject to the precommitment review process described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Reopened expired commitments are subject to precommitment review under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) HUD considers a commitment to be
legally binding
if:
(1) It conforms to the format prescribed in the appropriate HUD Handbook and contains only such modifications as have been approved by HUD in writing;
(2) All required underwriting, analyses, reviews and approvals have been accomplished prior to issuance of the commitment;
(3) It conforms to HUD requirements pertaining to initial term and extensions;
(4) It obligates the lender and HUD to proceed to the next stage (
i.e.,
firm commitment in the case of a conditional commitment, or endorsement in the case of a firm commitment) if the applicant mortgagor complies with all conditions of such commitment;
(5) It does not permit the lender to change unilaterally the conditions or terms of the commitment; and
(6) It is signed by an official of the coinsuring lender who has been designated and authorized in accordance with HUD requirements.
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0437)
[55 FR 41319, Oct. 10, 1990]
§ 252.2
GNMA right to assignment.
If the lender-issuer defaults on its obligations under the GNMA Mortgage-Backed Securities Program, GNMA will have the right to cause all Coinsured Mortgages held in GNMA pools by the defaulting coinsuring lender-issuer to be assigned to another GNMA-approved coinsuring lender-issuer, or to GNMA itself.
(a) For any Coinsured Mortgage that is not in default and is held by a defaulting lender-issuer, GNMA will have the right to perfect an assignment of the mortgage to itself. However, before exercising this right, GNMA will attempt to have the Mortgage assigned to another eligible coinsuring lender (unless GNMA determines, with the agreement of the Commissioner, that the attempt would prove ineffectual because of market conditions or other factors). This attempt will be undertaken by soliciting offers to assume the defaulting lender-issuer's rights and obligations under the Mortgage from those eligible coinsuring lenders that are also GNMA issuers and that are indicated on a periodically updated listing furnished to GNMA by the Commissioner.
(b) For any Coinsured Mortgage that is in default and held by a defaulting lender-issuer, GNMA will have the right to perfect an assignment of the Coinsured Mortgage directly to itself before extinguishing the Mortgage by completion of foreclosure action or acquisition of title by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
(c) GNMA, as assignee, will give the Commissioner written notice, within 30 days after taking a Mortgage by assignment in accordance with this section, in order to allow an appropriate endorsement and necessary changes in the Commissioner's records.
(d) The Commissioner will endorse any Mortgage assigned to GNMA as provided by this section for full insurance, effective as of the date of assignment in accordance with the appropriate provisions of 24 CFR part 232. Any future claim by GNMA, or any assignment of the fully insured Mortgage, will be governed by the appropriate provisions of 24 CFR part 232, except that any payment will be made in cash instead of debentures.
[59 FR 1475, Jan. 11, 1994]
§ 252.3
Case-by-case conversion to full insurance.

# Cross Reference:
The provisions of 24 CFR 251.3 apply to this part.
[61 FR 49038, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 252.6
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.
The provisions of 24 CFR 251.6 shall apply to this part.
[63 FR 1303, Jan. 8, 1998]
Pt. 255

# PART 255—COINSURANCE FOR THE PURCHASE OR REFINANCING OF EXISTING MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS
Sec.
255.1
Termination of program.
255.2
GNMA right to assignment.
255.3
Case-by-case conversion to full insurance.
255.6
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1515b, 1715z-9; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).
§ 255.1
Termination of program.
(a) Effective on November 12, 1990, the authority to coinsure mortgages under this part is terminated, except that the Department:
(1) Will honor legally binding and validly issued commitments issued before November 12, 1990 and
(2) Will accept for review the coinsurance applications described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Part 255, as it existed immediately before November 12, 1990, will continue to govern the rights and obligations of coinsured lenders, mortgagors, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development with respect to loans coinsured under this part.
(b) A precommitment review procedure applies to any application for mortgage coinsurance for which a lender has accepted a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990 under this part and for which a legally binding Conditional or Firm Commitment is proposed to be issued. This procedure applies to lenders with preliminary as well as full approval to process coinsurance applications and without regard to whether the lender is under probation. For any coinsurance application for which the lender has accepted an application and a non-refundable application fee before November 12, 1990, the lender shall, prior to commitment, submit to HUD headquarters and to the HUD field office with jurisdiction for the proposed project such exhibits and other information as has been specified in administrative instructions of the Commissioner. The lender shall not issue a commitment without written approval from the Commissioner. Field Offices shall not endorse any case covered by this precommitment review requirement unless the lender submits with the endorsement package evidence of the Commissioner's approval of the processing and evidence of compliance with any conditions imposed by the Commissioner.
(c) Extensions of commitments for projects which had outstanding legally binding commitments as of November 12, 1990 are limited as follows:
(1) Conditional commitments may be extended not to exceed 180 days from the date of original issuance;
(2) Firm commitments may be granted two 60-day extensions.
However, should any underwriting conclusions be altered and reflected in the extension, the project must be submitted for precommitment review in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. In the event an extension is required beyond those provided for in this paragraph, the case will be subject to the precommitment review process described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Reopened expired commitments are subject to precommitment review under paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) HUD considers a commitment to be
legally binding
if:
(1) It conforms to the format prescribed in the appropriate HUD Handbook and contains only such modifications as have been approved by HUD in writing;
(2) All required underwriting, analyses, reviews and approvals have been accomplished prior to issuance of the commitment;
(3) It conforms to HUD requirements pertaining to initial term and extension;
(4) It obligates the lender and HUD to proceed to the next stage (
i.e.,
firm commitment in the case of a conditional commitment, or endorsement in the case of a firm commitment) if the applicant mortgagor complies with all conditions of such commitment;
(5) It does not permit the lender to change unilaterally the conditions or terms of the commitment; and
(6) It is signed by an official of the coinsuring lender who has been designated and authorized in accordance with HUD requirements.
(Information collection requirements in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0437)
[55 FR 41320, Oct. 10, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 14642, Apr. 11, 1991]
§ 255.2
GNMA right to assignment.
If the lender-issuer defaults on its obligations under the GNMA Mortgage-Backed Securities Program, GNMA will have the right to cause all Coinsured Mortgages held in GNMA pools by the defaulting coinsuring lender-issuer to be assigned to another GNMA-approved coinsuring lender-issuer, or to GNMA itself.
(a) For any Coinsured Mortgage that is not in default and is held by a defaulting lender-issuer, GNMA will have the right to perfect an assignment of the mortgage to itself. However, before exercising this right, GNMA will attempt to have the Mortgage assigned to another eligible coinsuring lender (unless GNMA determines, with the agreement of the Commissioner, that the attempt would prove ineffectual because of market conditions or other factors). This attempt will be undertaken by soliciting offers to assume the defaulting lender-issuer's rights and obligations under the Mortgage from those eligible coinsuring lenders that are also GNMA issuers and that are indicated on a periodically updated listing furnished to GNMA by the Commissioner.
(b) For any Coinsured Mortgage that is in default and held by a defaulting lender-issuer, GNMA will have the right to perfect an assignment of the Coinsured Mortgage directly to itself before extinguishing the Mortgage by completion of foreclosure action or acquisition of title by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
(c) GNMA, as assignee, will give the Commissioner written notice, within 30 days after taking a Mortgage by assignment in accordance with this section, in order to allow an appropriate endorsement and necessary changes in the Commissioner's records.
(d) The Commissioner will endorse any Mortgage assigned to GNMA as provided by this section for full insurance, effective as of the date of assignment in accordance with the appropriate provisions of 24 CFR part 207. Any future claim by GNMA, or any assignment of the fully insured Mortgage, will be governed by the appropriate provisions of 24 CFR part 207, except that any payment will be made in cash instead of debentures.
[59 FR 1475, Jan. 11, 1994]
§ 255.3
Case-by-case conversion to full insurance.

# Cross Reference:
The provisions of 24 CFR 251.3 apply to this part.
[61 FR 49038, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 255.6
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.
The provisions of 24 CFR 251.6 shall apply to this part.
[63 FR 1303, Jan. 8, 1998]
Pt. 266

# PART 266—HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY RISK-SHARING PROGRAM FOR INSURED AFFORDABLE MULTIFAMILY PROJECT LOANS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
266.1
Purpose and scope.
266.5
Definitions.
266.15
Risk-Sharing Agreement.
266.20
Effect of amendments.
266.25
Limitation on HUD insurance liability.
266.30
Nonapplicability of 24 CFR part 246.

# Subpart B—Housing Finance Agency Requirements
266.100
Qualified housing finance agency (HFA).
266.105
Application requirements.
266.110
Reserve requirements.
266.115
Program monitoring and evaluation.
266.120
Actions for which sanctions may be imposed.
266.125
Scope and nature of sanctions.
266.130
Reinsurance.

# Subpart C—Program Requirements
266.200
Eligible projects.
266.205
Ineligible projects.
266.210
HUD-retained review functions.
266.215
Functions delegated by HUD to HFAs.
266.217
Environmental review requirements.
266.220
Nondiscrimination in housing and employment.
266.225
Labor standards.

# Subpart D—Processing, Development, and Approval
266.300
HFAs accepting 50 percent or more of risk.
266.305
HFAs accepting less than 50 percent of risk.
266.310
Insurance of advances or insurance upon completion; applicability of requirements.
266.315
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart E—Mortgage and Closing Requirements; HUD Endorsement
266.400
Property requirements—real estate.
266.402
Recordation.
266.405
Title.
266.410
Mortgage provisions.
266.415
Mortgage lien and other obligations.
266.417
Authority to adjust mortgage insurance amount.
266.420
Closing and endorsement by the Commissioner.

# Subpart F—Project Management and Servicing
266.500
General.
266.505
Regulatory agreement requirements.
266.507
Maintenance requirements.
266.510
HFA responsibilities.
266.515
Record retention.
266.520
Program monitoring and compliance.

# Subpart G—Contract Rights and Obligations

# Mortgage Insurance Premiums
266.600
Mortgage insurance premium: Insurance upon completion.
266.602
Mortgage insurance premium: Insured advances.
266.604
Mortgage insurance premium: Other requirements.
266.606
Mortgage insurance premium: Duration and method of paying.
266.608
Mortgage insurance premium: Pro rata refund.
266.610
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.

# Insurance Endorsement
266.612
Insurance endorsement.

# Assignments
266.616
Transfer of partial interest under participation agreement.

# Termination
266.620
Termination of contract of insurance and indemnification.
266.622
Notice and date of termination by the Commissioner.

# Claim Procedures
266.626
Notice of default and filing an insurance claim.
266.628
Initial claim payments.
266.630
Partial payment of claims.
266.632
Withdrawal of claim.
266.634
Reinstatement of the contract of insurance.
266.636
Insuring new loans for defaulted projects.
266.638
Issuance of HFA Debenture.
266.640
Foreclosure and acquisition.
266.642
Appraisals.
266.644
Application for final claim settlement.
266.646
Determining the amount of loss.
266.648
Items included in total loss.
266.650
Items deducted from total loss.
266.652
Determining share of loss.
266.654
Final claim settlement and HFA Debenture redemption.
266.656
Recovery of costs after final claim settlement.
266.658
Program monitoring and compliance.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715z-22.; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 266.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Authority and scope.
(1) Section 542 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-22), directs the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), acting through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), to carry out programs that will provide new forms of Federal credit enhancement for multifamily loans. Section 542, entitled, “Multifamily Mortgage Credit Programs,” provides insurance authority independent from that provided by the National Housing Act.
(2) Section 542(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 specifically directs HUD to carry out a program of risk-sharing with qualified State and local housing finance agencies (HFAs). The qualified HFAs are authorized to underwrite and process loans. HUD provides full mortgage insurance on affordable multifamily housing projects processed by such HFAs under this program. Through risk-sharing agreements with HUD, HFAs contract to reimburse HUD for a portion of the loss from any defaults
that occur while HUD insurance is in force.
(3) The extent to which HUD directs qualified HFAs regarding their underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures is related to the proportion of the risk taken by an HFA.
(b)
Purpose.
The primary purpose of this program is to provide credit enhancement for multifamily loans,
i.e.,
utilization of full insurance by HUD, pursuant to risk-sharing agreements with qualified housing finance agencies, for the development of affordable housing. The utilization of Federal credit enhancements increases access to capital markets and, thereby, increases the supply of affordable multifamily housing. By permitting HFAs to underwrite, process, and service loans and to manage and dispose of properties that fall into default, affordable housing is made available to eligible families and individuals in a timely manner.
[85 FR 83440, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.5
Definitions.
Act
means the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992.
Affordable housing
means a project that meets the requirements for a qualified low-income housing project under section 42(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42(g)). For purposes of this part, the reference to a utility allowance in 26 U.S.C. 42(g) includes charges for the occupancy of a cooperative unit.
Board and Care/Assisted Living Facility
means a residential facility for independent living that is regulated by State or local government that provides continuous protective oversight and assistance with the activities of daily living to frail elderly persons or other persons needing such assistance. Continuous protective oversight may range from as little as awareness on the part of management staff of residents' whereabouts (and the ability to intervene in the event of crisis) to a higher level of services and assistance. Assistance with the activities of daily living may include, but is not limited to, bathing, dressing, eating, getting in and out of bed or chairs, walking, going outdoors, using the toilet, laundry, home management, meal preparation, shopping, supervision of medication, and housework.
Commissioner
means the Federal Housing Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative.
Contract of insurance
means the agreement evidenced by the endorsement of the Commissioner upon the credit instrument given in connection with an insured mortgage, incorporating by reference the regulations in this part and the applicable provisions of the Act.
Credit subsidy
means the cost of a direct loan or loan guarantee under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (subtitle B of title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, Public Law 101-508, approved Nov. 5, 1990).
Debenture
means the instrument issued by the HFA to HUD upon payment of an insurance claim by HUD. The instrument must be in the standard form of a State or Municipal Debenture issued under the Uniform Commercial Code, where applicable, and must be supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA. The instrument must define the terms and conditions and the risk-sharing portion which the HFA will pay at the end of the term of the Debenture, and must be for the full amount of the claim payment. The term
Debenture
may include similar instruments, such as promissory notes and bonds, as mutually agreed upon by the Commissioner and the HFA.
Designated offices
means the local HUD offices that are assigned the responsibility for program monitoring, imposing or recommending sanctions for program violations, and conducting informal hearings.
Firm approval letter
means a letter issued by HUD to an HFA upon the positive completion of the HUD-retained reviews described in § 266.210. The letter will apportion units to the project and provide that, so long as the HFA is in good standing and absent fraud or misrepresentation by the HFA, HUD will endorse the project mortgage for insurance upon presentation by the HFA of the required Closing Docket and certifications required by this part and the Commissioner's administrative requirements.
Housing finance agency
or
HFA
means any public body, agency, or instrumentality created by a specific act of a State legislature or local municipality empowered to finance activities designed to provide housing and related facilities, through land acquisition, construction or rehabilitation. The term State includes the several States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa and the Virgin Islands.
Insured mortgage
means a valid single first lien given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate, under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located, together with the credit instrument, if any, secured thereby. Any other financing permitting on property insured under this part must be expressly subordinate to the insured mortgage.
Level I participants
means HFAs that elect to take 50 percent or more of the risk of loss in 10 percent increments on mortgages issued under this program.
Level II participants
means HFAs that elect to take 10 or 25 percent of the risk of loss on mortgages issued under this program, dependent on the loan-to-replacement cost or loan-to-value ratio of the project to be insured.
Mortgage
means such a single first lien upon the real estate as is commonly given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the jurisdiction where the real estate is situated, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby.
Mortgagee
means the original lender under a mortgage and its successors and assigns approved by the Commissioner.
Mortgagor
means the original borrower under a mortgage and its successor and assigns.
Multifamily housing
means housing accommodations on the mortgaged property that are designed principally for residential use, conform to standards satisfactory to the Commissioner, and consist of not less than 5 rental units (including cooperative units) on 1 site. These units may be detached, semidetached, row house, or multifamily structures.
Qualified HFA
means an HFA that meets the requirements described in § 266.100(a).
Risk-Sharing Agreement
means a contract between an HFA and the Commissioner that incorporates the terms, obligations, and conditions specified in this part.
Secondary financing
means any grant, loan, inferior lien, or other form of indebtedness used during loan origination prior to HUD endorsement to finance a multifamily property insured under this part which is inferior to the insured mortgage as defined above and does not have first priority for payment.
Single Room Occupancy, or SRO, projects
means multifamily projects consisting of units that are not required to contain food preparation or sanitary facilities for occupancy by single individuals capable of independent living.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83440, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.15
Risk-Sharing Agreement.
Execution of a Risk-Sharing Agreement is a prerequisite to participation in this program. The Risk-Sharing Agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the Commissioner.
[61 FR 7947, Feb. 29, 1996]
§ 266.20
Effect of amendments.
The Commissioner may amend the regulations in this part from time to time. Amendments to the regulations will not adversely affect the interest of a lender under a contract of insurance on any mortgage already insured or on any mortgage to be insured on which HUD has already issued its firm approval letter.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83440, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.25
Limitation on HUD insurance liability.
The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with anyone other than the HFA in its role as mortgagee of record and as party to a risk-sharing agreement with HUD with respect to the rights, benefits, and obligations of the HFA under the contract of insurance.
§ 266.30
Nonapplicability of 24 CFR part 246.
The regulations at 24 CFR part 246, pertaining to local rent control, do not apply to projects that are security for mortgages insured under this part.
[85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]

# Subpart B—Housing Finance Agency Requirements
§ 266.100
Qualified housing finance agency (HFA).
(a)
Qualifications.
To participate in the program, an HFA must apply and be specifically approved for the program described in this part, in addition to being approved as a mortgagee under § 202.10 of this part. The HFA must maintain eligibility by continuing to comply with the requirements set forth in the Risk-Sharing Agreement and this part. To qualify for participation in the program described in this part, an HFA must:
(1) Carry an issuer credit rating of “A” or better, or an equivalent as evaluated by Standard and Poor's or any other nationally recognized rating agency; or
(2) Receive an overall rating of “A” for the HFA for its general obligation bonds from a nationally recognized rating agency; or
(3) Otherwise demonstrate its capacity as a sound and experienced HFA based on, but not limited to, experience in financing multifamily housing, fund balances, administrative capabilities, investment policy, internal controls, financial management, portfolio quality, and State or local support; and
(4) Be a HUD-approved multifamily mortgagee in good standing; and
(5) Have at least five years experience in multifamily underwriting; and
(6) Certify that:
(i) The Department of Justice has not brought a civil rights suit against the HFA, and no suit is pending;
(ii) There has not been an adjudication of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against the HFA by a private individual, unless the HFA is operating in compliance with a court order, or implementing a HUD-approved compliance agreement designed to correct the areas of noncompliance;
(iii) There are no outstanding findings of noncompliance with civil rights statutes, Executive Orders, or regulations as a result of formal administrative proceedings, or the Secretary has not issued a charge against the HFA under the Fair Housing Act, unless the HFA is operating under a compliance agreement designed to correct the areas of noncompliance.
(b)
Approval levels.
Approval levels consist of the following:
(1) Level I approval to originate, service, and dispose of multifamily mortgages where the HFA uses its own underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures, and assumes 50 to 90 percent of the risk of loss (in 10 percent increments).
(2) Level II approval to originate, service, and dispose of multifamily mortgages where the HFA uses underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures approved by HUD, and:
(i) When the loan-to-replacement cost ratio for new construction and substantial rehabilitation projects or the loan-to-value ratio for existing projects is greater than or equal to 75 percent, the HFA shall assume 25 percent of the risk of loss.
(ii) When the loan-to-replacement cost ratio for new construction and substantial rehabilitation or the loan-to-value ratio for existing projects is less than 75 percent, the HFA shall assume 10 percent, or 25 percent at the HFA's option, of the risk of loss.
(3) For HFAs who plan to use Level I and Level II processing, the underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures to be used on Level II loans must be approved by HUD.
(4) Every five years, HUD will review the underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures for HFAs with Level II approval. HUD may require changes to these procedures as a condition for continued Level II approval.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 20088, Apr. 24, 1997; 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.105
Application requirements.
(a)
Applications for approval as a HUD-approved multifamily mortgagee.
HFAs that are not HUD-approved mortgagees at the time of their application to participate in the program under this part must submit, concurrently, separate applications for approval to participate in the program and for approval to operate as a HUD-approved mortgagee. Application for approval as a HUD-approved mortgagee must be submitted to HUD in accordance with the applicable HUD requirements.
(b)
Applications for participation in program.
Applications from HFAs for approval to participate in the program under this part may be submitted at any time, and must be submitted in the form and manner established by HUD.
[61 FR 7947, Feb. 29, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.110
Reserve requirements.
(a)
HFAs with an issuer credit rating of “A” or better or overall rating of “A” or better on general obligation bonds.
An HFA with an issuer credit rating of “A” or better, or an equivalent designation, or an HFA with an overall rating of “A” or better on its general obligation bonds, is not required to have additional reserves so long as the HFA maintains that designation or rating, unless the Commissioner determines that a prescribed level of reserves is necessary. If the designation or rating is lost, the HFA must immediately establish a reserve account funded in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The reserve account must reflect all loans in the HFA's portfolio endorsed under this part.
(b)
Other HFAs.
(1) For other HFAs, a specifically identified dedicated account consisting entirely of liquid assets (
i.e.,
cash or cash equivalents or readily marketable securities) must be established and maintained in a financial institution acceptable to HUD. This account may be drawn upon by HUD and may be used by the HFA only with the prior written approval of HUD for the purpose of meeting the HFA's risk-sharing obligations under this part. The account must be established prior to the execution of any risk-sharing agreement under this part in an initial amount of not less than $500,000. Thereafter, the HFA must deposit at each loan closing and thereafter maintain the following additional amounts in the dedicated account:
(i) $10.00 per $1,000 of the unpaid principal balance that is equal to or less than $50 million; plus
(ii) $7.50 per $1,000 of the unpaid principal balance that is greater than $50 million and less than $150 million; plus
(iii) $5.00 per $1,000 of the unpaid principal balance that is greater than $150 million.
(2) The Commissioner may determine that higher levels of reserves may be necessary.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.115
Program monitoring and evaluation.
(a)
HFA certifications.
HUD will rely heavily on the certifications required of an HFA under this part and such additional certifications as the Commissioner may require in administrative procedures. An HFA's continued participation in the program is predicated upon compliance with these certifications and its recommending for endorsement only those mortgages that comply with requirements of the program, including the HFA's origination, underwriting and closing procedures incorporated by reference into the Risk-Sharing Agreement.
(b)
Monitoring and evaluation.
Monitoring and evaluation activities will focus on compliance with program requirements and performance of the HFA in meeting program objectives of providing affordable housing. They will enable HUD to evaluate the effectiveness of the program as required by section 542(d)(3) of the Act.
(c)
Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation.
The Commissioner or designee will be responsible for overall program monitoring and evaluation.
(d)
HFA submissions.
(1) For each loan insured under this part, basic underwriting and closing information must be submitted in a format specified by HUD and must accompany the closing docket submitted in accordance with § 266.420(b). Information relative to
project management and servicing (including disposition) will be required after endorsement.
(2) The HFA must submit semi-annual reports setting forth the original mortgage amounts and outstanding principal balances on mortgages the HFA has underwritten, and the status of all projects insured under this part (e.g., current, in default, acquired, under workout agreement, in bankruptcy). For projects where the mortgagor has declared bankruptcy, the HFA must submit information containing the date the bankruptcy was filed and the date the HFA requested the Court to dismiss the bankruptcy proceedings.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.120
Actions for which sanctions may be imposed.
Results of monitoring or other reviews may serve as the basis for the Commissioner's imposing sanctions on the HFA. Violations for which sanctions may be imposed include, but are not limited to:
(a) Commission of fraud or making a material misrepresentation by the HFA with respect to any mortgage insured or to any other matter under this part.
(b) Assignment or transfer of interest in any insured mortgage not in accord with the requirements of this part.
(c) Engagement in business practices that do not conform to generally accepted practices of prudent lenders or that demonstrate irresponsibility.
(d) Actions or conduct for which sanctions may be imposed against the HFA by HUD's Mortgagee Review Board under 24 CFR 25.9, which pertains to “notice of administrative action”.
(e) Failure to:
(1) Reveal in its application for participation in the program all the information required by this part;
(2) Notify HUD in a timely manner of any pending or actual changes that would adversely affect HFA operations or financial status;
(3) Comply with all eligibility requirements for participation in the program;
(4) Issue debentures in the event of an initial claim payment by HUD, or to reimburse HUD for payment of a claim;
(5) Maintain an issuer credit rating of “A” or better, or an equivalent designation, or overall rating of “A” on general obligation bonds (or if such rating is lost, comply with paragraph (e)(6) of this section);
(6) Establish and maintain a dedicated account, if required, or meet other financial obligations under this program;
(7) Perform underwriting, insurance of advances, cost certification, management, servicing or property disposition functions in a prudent and acceptable manner based on the standards incorporated by reference into the Risk-sharing Agreement;
(8) Submit financial and other reports required by this part;
(9) Comply with any regulatory requirement or with the Risk-Sharing Agreement;
(10) Maintain any other standards HUD may establish for participation in this program;
(11) Enforce the regulatory agreement provisions with respect to individual projects;
(12) Maintain a default ratio acceptable to HUD relative to the HFA's own portfolio and the defaults experienced under this part by other program participants;
(13) Consider adequately special risk circumstances without compensating for the higher risks of such transactions (
e.g.,
high loan-to-value ratios in areas with high vacancy or default rates); or
(14) Remit mortgage insurance premiums on a timely basis or failure to refund or credit mortgagor's accounts with overpaid mortgage insurance premiums.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.125
Scope and nature of sanctions.
(a)
Actions by Designated Office.
Depending on the nature and extent of the noncompliance with the requirements of this part, the Designated Office may take any of the following actions:
(1) Require that the HFA execute a trust agreement, establish a trust account in accordance with such agreement, and fund such account which may be drawn upon by HUD for purposes of meeting the HFA's risk-sharing obligations;
(2) Require the HFA to assume a higher portion of risk for the subject and future mortgages;
(3) Recommend to the Commissioner that the HFA be required to contract its loan servicing or property disposition functions to a third party;
(4) Recommend to the Commissioner that the mortgage insurance be terminated in cases of fraud or material misrepresentation by the HFA, or transfer of interest in an insured mortgage or assignment of the mortgage not in accord with the requirements of this part;
(5) Recommend to the Commissioner that approval for the HFA to participate in the program be suspended or withdrawn;
(6) Recommend to the Commissioner that the HFA's mortgagee approval be withdrawn pursuant to 24 CFR part 25 (regulations of the Mortgagee Review Board) and/or that penalties be imposed pursuant to 24 CFR part 30 (regulations pertaining to Civil Money Penalties; Certain Prohibited Contact);
(7) Require additional financial or other reports as may be necessary to monitor the activities of the HFA more closely.
(8) Require the HFA to revise any or all of its underwriting, processing, asset management, or servicing policies and procedures as directed by the Commissioner.
(b)
Actions by Headquarters.
HUD Headquarters may impose any of the sanctions set forth or recommended in paragraph (a) of this section based upon its responsibilities for monitoring and overall program oversight.
(c)
Effect of suspension or withdrawal.
A suspension or withdrawal action will not affect any mortgage insurance endorsement in effect on the date of the suspension or withdrawal action.
(d)
HFA right to informal hearing.
(1) Any sanction imposed by a designated office in writing will be immediately effective, will state the grounds for the action, and provide for the HFA's right to an informal hearing before the designated office representative or designee in the designated office. The HFA may request an informal hearing within 10 working days of receipt of the suspension or withdrawal action and the Designated Office shall give the HFA an opportunity to be heard within 10 working days of receipt of the HFA's request. The HFA may be represented by counsel. The Designated Office Representative, or his or her designee, will advise the HFA in writing of the decision within 10 working days of the informal hearing, which decision will constitute final HUD action.
(2) Sanctions imposed by Headquarters will be handled in a similar manner, except that the informal hearing shall be before the Commissioner or his or her designee.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.130
Reinsurance.
Reinsurance will be permitted for the portion of the HFA risk, subject to the following requirements:
(a) Neither HUD's nor the HFA's position shall be subordinated;
(b) The reinsurance may not be used to reduce any reserve or fund balance requirements; and
(c) Such reinsurance does not incur an obligation to the Federal Government.

# Subpart C—Program Requirements
§ 266.200
Eligible projects.
(a)
Minimum project size.
Projects insured under this part must consist of five or more rental dwelling units (including cooperative dwelling units) on one site. The site may consist of two or more non-contiguous parcels of land situated so as to comprise a readily marketable real estate entity within an area small enough to allow convenient and efficient management. The units may be detached, semi-detached, row houses, multifamily structures, or mobile home parks (exclusive of the mobile homes).
(b)
New construction or substantial rehabilitation.
Insurance under this part shall be for the purpose of financing
the new construction or substantial rehabilitation of projects meeting the other requirements of this part as follows:
(1)
New construction
occurs when all project and construction elements are installed as part of the work.
(2)
Substantial rehabilitation
occurs when the scope of work to improve an existing project exceeds in aggregate cost a sum equal to the base per dwelling unit limit times the applicable high cost factor established by the Commissioner, or when the scope of work involves the replacement of two or more building systems.
Replacement
is when the cost of replacement work exceeds 50% of the cost of replacing the entire system. The base per dwelling unit limit is $15,933 for 2019, and will be adjusted annually based on the percentage change in the consumer price index.
(c)
Existing projects.
Financing of existing properties for acquisition or refinancing without substantial rehabilitation is allowed.
(1) If the financing will result in the preservation of affordable housing, where the property will be maintained as affordable housing for a period of at least 20 years, regardless of whether the loan is prepaid; and
(2) Project occupancy is not less than 93 percent (to include consideration of rent in arrears), based on the average occupancy in the project over the most recent 12 months; and
(3) The loan to be refinanced has not been in default within the 12 months prior to the date of the application for refinancing; and
(4) A capital needs assessment is performed, and funds escrowed for all necessary repairs and replacement reserves funded for future capital repairs; and
(5) If the project is subject to a Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) contract, and is not a project financed under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) by a Level I participant, then:
(i) The owner of the property agrees to renew the HAP contract for a 20-year term;
(ii) Existing and post-refinance HAP residual receipts are set aside to be used to reduce future HAP payments; and
(iii) The HUD-insured mortgage does not exceed an amount supportable by the lower of the unit rents being collected under the rental assistance agreement or the unit rents being collected at unassisted projects in the market area that are similar in amenities and location to the project for which insurance is being requested; and
(6) For Level II participants only, the HUD-insured mortgage may not exceed the sum of the existing indebtedness, cost of refinancing, or acquisition, the cost of repairs and reasonable transaction costs as determined by the Commissioner. (This paragraph does not apply to Level I participants.)
(d)
Projects receiving section 8 rental subsidies or other rental subsidies.
Projects receiving project-based housing assistance payments under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.1437f) or other rental subsidies and meeting the requirements of this part may be insured under this part only if the mortgage does not exceed an amount supportable by the lower of the unit rents being or to be collected under the rental assistance agreement or the unit rents being collected at unassisted projects in the market that are similar in amenities and location to the project for which insurance is being requested. This paragraph does not apply to projects of Level I participants if those projects are financed under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q).
(e)
SRO projects.
Single room occupancy (SRO) projects, as defined in § 266.5, are eligible for insurance under this part. Units in SRO projects must be subject to 30-calendar day or longer leases; however, rent payments may be made on a weekly basis in SRO projects.
(f)
Board and care/assisted living facilities.
Board and care projects and assisted living facilities may be insured if the facilities meet the definition of those terms in § 266.5.
(g)
Elderly projects.
Projects or parts of projects specifically designed for the use and occupancy by elderly families. An elderly family means any household where the head or spouse is 62 years of age or older, including children under
18, and also any single person who is 62 years of age or older.
(h)
Housing for older persons.
Projects eligible for and in compliance with 42 U.S.C. 3607(b) and 24 CFR part 100, subpart E.
(i)
Zoning requirements.
Projects insured under this part must meet applicable zoning and other State/local government requirements.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83441, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.205
Ineligible projects.
The following projects and facilities are not eligible for insurance under this part:
(a)
Transient housing or hotels.
Rental for transient or hotel purposes. For purposes of this part, rental for transient or hotel purposes means:
(1) Rental for any period less than 30 calendar days, or
(2) Any rental, if the occupants of the housing accommodations are provided customary hotel services such as room service for food and beverages, maid service, furnishing and laundering of linens, or valet service.
(b)
Projects in military impact areas.
A project located in a military impact area, as determined by HUD. A military impact area is generally a small or medium size metropolitan housing market area or a remote or isolated nonmetropolitan area where:
(1) Military-connected households comprise 25 percent or more of the total households in the market area. Military-connected households include active duty military personnel, civilian employees of the military service (Department of Defense) or other Federal agency at or in support of the installation, and employees of contractors and sub-contractors directly associated with the military installation, and their dependents. Unaccompanied active duty military personnel housed in military-controlled group quarters housing (barracks, BOQ's) are excluded; and
(2) There is concern about the continued stability of the current level of military strength and mission at the installation based on public announcements from the U.S. Department of Defense or the military service of impending changes; and
(3) The complete reduction of military-connected households living in nonmilitary rental housing over a 5 year period, at an annual average decline of 20 percent, would, taking into account growth in the civilian economy and normal changes in the housing inventory, cause an adverse impact on the private rental market resulting in an increase in the rental vacancy rate in the housing market of 10 percent or more at the end of that period.
(c)
Retirement service centers.
Projects designed for the elderly with extensive services and luxury accommodations that provide for central kitchens and dining rooms with food service or mandatory services.
(d)
Nursing homes or intermediate care facilities.
Nursing homes and intermediate care facilities licensed and regulated by State or local government and providing nursing and medical care.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.210
HUD-retained review functions.
Certain functions are retained by the Commissioner. The HFA must submit any information or certification required by the Commissioner to permit determination of compliance with requirements concerning:
(a)
Previous participation of principals.
Previous participation of the principals of the mortgagor, general contractor, consultant or management agent in accordance with the Previous Participation and Clearance Review Procedures of 24 CFR 200.210 through 200.218.
(b)
Intergovernmental review.
Intergovernmental review of Federal programs under Executive Order 12372, as implemented in 24 CFR part 52.
(c)
Subsidy layering.
The Commissioner, or Housing Credit Agencies as defined by section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42), through such delegation as may be in effect by regulation hereafter, shall review all projects receiving tax credits and some form of HUD assistance for any excess subsidy provided to individual projects and reduce subsidy sources in accordance with outstanding guidelines.
(d)
Davis-Bacon Act.
The Commissioner shall obtain and provide to the HFA the appropriate U.S. Department of Labor wage rate determinations under the Davis-Bacon Act, where they apply under this part.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 16573, Mar. 31, 1995; 85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.215
Functions delegated by HUD to HFAs.
The following functions are delegated by HUD to the HFAs:
(a)
Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan (AFHMP).
The HFA will perform information collection, reviews and ministerial activities associated with the review and approval of the AFHMP for all projects. (Enforcement of fair housing and equal opportunity laws is the responsibility of HUD.)
(b)
Labor standards and prevailing wage requirements.
The HFA will perform information collection (e.g., payroll review and routine interviews) and other routine administration and enforcement functions regarding labor standards, in accordance with § 266.225(e). (Enforcement of Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements and labor standards is the responsibility of HUD.)
(c)
Insurance of advances.
In cases involving insured advances, the HFA will approve periodic advances of mortgage insurance proceeds during construction of the project subject to terms specified by the Commissioner.
(d)
Cost certification.
The HFA will perform cost certification functions on each insured loan subject to terms specified by the Commissioner.
(e)
Lead-based paint.
The HFA will perform functions related to Lead-based paint requirements as set forth in 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, G, and R.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.217
Environmental review requirements.
The responsible entity, as defined in 24 CFR part 58 (Environmental Review Procedures for Entities Assuming HUD Environmental Responsibilities), assumes legal responsibility for compliance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and related laws and authorities. The responsible entity will visit each project site proposed for insurance under this part and prepare the applicable environmental reviews as set forth in 24 CFR part 58. HUD may make a finding in accordance with 24 CFR 58.11, Legal Capacity and Performance, and may perform the environmental review itself under 24 CFR part 50 (Protection and Enhancement of Environmental Quality). In all cases the environmental review must be completed before HUD may issue the firm approval letter.
[85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.220
Nondiscrimination in housing and employment.
The mortgagor must certify to the HFA that, so long as the mortgage is insured under this part, the mortgagor will:
(a) Not use tenant selection procedures that discriminate against families with children, except in the case of a project qualifying for and complying with the requirements of the “housing for older persons” exemption, as defined in section 807(b)(2) of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3607(b)) and further described in 24 CFR part 100, subpart E. Projects receiving Federal financial assistance in which elderly families include minor children may not avail themselves of the housing for older persons exemption;
(b) Determine eligibility for admission and continued occupancy without regard to actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status and refrain from inquiries about sexual orientation and gender identity in accordance with 24 CFR 5.105(a)(2);
(c)(1) Comply with:
(i) The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 through 3619), as implemented by 24 CFR part 100;
(ii) Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 through 12213), as implemented by 28 CFR part 35;
(iii) Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), as implemented by 24 CFR part 135;
(iv) The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691-1691f), as implemented by 12 CFR part 202;
(v) Executive Order 11063, as amended by Executive Order 12259 (3 CFR 1958-1963 Comp., p. 652 and 3 CFR 1980 Comp., p. 307), and implemented by 24 CFR part 107;
(vi) Executive Order 11246 (3 CFR 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339), as implemented by 41 CFR part 60; and
(vii) Other applicable Federal laws and regulations issued pursuant to these authorities; and applicable State and local fair housing and equal opportunity laws.
(2) In addition to the authorities listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a mortgagor that receives Federal financial assistance must also certify to the HFA that, so long as the mortgage is insured under this part, it will comply with:
(i) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d), as implemented by 24 CFR part 1;
(ii) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 through 6107), as implemented by 24 CFR part 146; and
(iii) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as implemented by 24 CFR part 8.
[85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.225
Labor standards.
(a)
Applicability of Davis-Bacon.
(1) All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors on a project insured under this part shall be paid not less than the wages prevailing in the locality in which the work was performed for the corresponding classes of laborers and mechanics employed in construction of a similar character, as determined by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor (Secretary of Labor) in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 3141
et seq.
), where the project meets all of the following conditions:
(i) Advances for construction of the project are insured under this part;
(ii) The project involves new construction or substantial rehabilitation; and
(iii) The project will contain 12 or more dwelling units.
(2) Projects that do not meet these conditions are not subject to Davis-Bacon wage rates except to the extent required as a condition of other Federal assistance to the project.
(b)
Volunteers.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to volunteers under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70 (Use of Volunteers on Projects Subject to Davis-Bacon and HUD-Determined Wage Rates). In applying 24 CFR part 70, insurance under this part shall be treated as a program for which there is a statutory exemption for volunteers.
(c)
Labor standards.
Any contract, subcontract, or building loan agreement executed for a project subject to Davis-Bacon wage rates under paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with all labor standards and provisions of the U.S. Department of Labor regulations in 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5 that would be applicable to a mortgage insurance program to which Davis-Bacon wage rates are made applicable by statute, provided, that regulatory provisions relating to investigations and enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor shall not be applicable, and enforcement of Davis-Bacon labor standards shall be the responsibility of the Commissioner in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Advances.
(1) No advance under a mortgage on a project subject to Davis-Bacon wage rates under paragraph (a) of this section shall be eligible for insurance under this part unless the HFA determines (in accordance with the Commissioner's administrative procedures) that the general contractor or any subcontractor or any firm, corporation, partnership or association in which the contractor or subcontractor has a substantial interest was not, on the date the contract or subcontract was executed, on the ineligible list established by the Comptroller General of the United States, pursuant to 29 CFR 5.12, issued by the Secretary of Labor.
(2) No advance under any mortgage on a project subject to Davis-Bacon wage rates under paragraph (a) of this section shall be insured under this part unless there is filed with the application for the advance, and no such mortgage shall be insured under this part unless there is filed with the HFA after
completion of the construction or substantial rehabilitation, a certificate or certificates in the form required by the Commissioner, supported by such other information as the Commissioner may prescribe, certifying that the laborers and mechanics employed in the construction of the project involved have been paid not less than the wages determined by the Secretary of Labor to be prevailing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Responsibility for enforcement and administration.
The Commissioner retains responsibility for enforcement of labor standards under this section, but the Commissioner may delegate to the HFA information collection (
e.g.,
payroll review and routine interviews) and other routine administration and enforcement functions, subject to monitoring by the Commissioner. Where routine administration and enforcement functions are delegated to the HFA, the HFA shall bear financial responsibility for any deficiency in payment of prevailing wages or, where applicable under 29 CFR part 1 (Procedures for Predetermination of Wage Rates), any increase in compensation to a contractor, that is attributable to any failure properly to carry out its delegated functions. For example, failure of an HFA to supply or ensure inclusion of the proper contract clauses or wage determination in a contract or building loan agreement may require the HFA to fund increased compensation to a contractor as the result of increased wages attributable to incorporation of the proper clauses and wage determination.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83443, Dec. 22, 2020]

# Subpart D—Processing, Development, and Approval
§ 266.300
HFAs accepting 50 percent or more of risk.
(a)
Underwriting standards.
An HFA electing to take 50 percent or more of the risk on loans may use its own underwriting standards and loan terms and conditions (as disclosed and submitted with its application) to underwrite and approve loans without further review by HUD.
(b)
HFA responsibilities.
The HFA is responsible for the performance of all functions except those HUD-retained functions specified in §§ 266.210 and 266.225(e). After acceptance of an application for a loan to be insured under this part, the HFA must:
(1) Determine that a market for the project exists, taking into consideration any comments from the local HUD office relative to the potential adverse impact the project will have on existing or proposed Federally insured and assisted projects in the area.
(2) Establish the maximum insurable mortgage and review plans and specifications for compliance with HFA standards;
(3) Arrange for the performance of an environmental review in accordance with § 266.217;
(4) Determine the acceptability of the proposed mortgagor and management agent;
(5) Approve the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, required by § 266.215(a); and
(6) Make any other determinations necessary to ensure acceptability of the proposed project.
(c)
HUD-retained reviews.
After positive completion of the HUD-retained reviews specified in § 266.210(a) and (b) the local HUD office will issue a firm approval letter.
(d)
Inspections and other reviews.
The HFA is responsible for inspections during construction, processing and approving advances of mortgage proceeds during construction, review and approval of cost certification, and closing of the loan.
(e)
Endorsement of mortgage note for insurance.
So long as the HFA is in good standing, and absent fraud or material misrepresentation on the part of the HFA, the Commissioner or designee will endorse the mortgage note for insurance upon presentation by the HFA of the Closing Docket and certifications required in § 266.420(b), subject to HUD's right to adjust under § 266.417.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83443, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.305
HFAs accepting less than 50 percent of risk.
(a)
Underwriting standards.
The underwriting standards and loan terms and
conditions of any HFA electing to take less than 50 percent of the risk on certain projects are subject to review, modification, and approval by HUD in accordance with § 266.100(b). These HFAs may assume 25 percent or 10 percent of the risk depending upon the loan-to-replacement-cost or loan-to-value ratios of the projects to be insured as specified in § 266.100(b)(2)(i) and (ii). Large loans, as defined by HUD for its insured multifamily mortgage programs, require prior approval by the Commissioner.
(b)
HFA responsibilities.
The HFA is responsible for the performance of all functions except those HUD-retained functions specified in § 266.210 and 266.225(e). After acceptance of an application for a loan to be insured under this part, the HFA must:
(1) Determine that a market for the project exists, taking into consideration any comments from the local HUD office relative to the potential adverse impact the project will have on existing or proposed Federally insured and assisted projects in the area;
(2) Establish the maximum insurable mortgage, and review plans and specifications for compliance with HFA standards as approved by HUD;
(3) Arrange for the performance of an environmental review in accordance with § 266.217;
(4) Determine the acceptability of the proposed mortgagor and management agent;
(5) Approve the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, required by § 266.215(a); and
(6) Make any other determinations necessary to ensure acceptability of the proposed project.
(c)
HUD-retained reviews.
After positive completion of the HUD-retained reviews specified in § 266.210(a) and (b), the local HUD office will issue a firm approval letter.
(d)
Inspections and other reviews.
The HFA is responsible for inspections during construction, processing and approving advances of mortgage proceeds during construction, review and approval of cost certification, and closing of the loan.
(e)
Endorsement of mortgage note for insurance.
So long as the HFA is in good standing, and absent fraud or material misrepresentation on the part of the HFA, the Commissioner or designee will endorse the mortgage note for insurance upon presentation by the HFA of the Closing Docket and certifications required in § 266.420(b), subject to HUD's right to adjust under § 266.417.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83443, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.310
Insurance of advances or insurance upon completion; applicability of requirements.
(a)
General.
HUD will agree to insure periodic advances of mortgage proceeds or to insure the entire mortgage upon completion of construction for projects involving new construction or substantial rehabilitation. Existing projects without the need for substantial rehabilitation will be considered insurance upon completion cases. In insurance upon completion cases, only the permanent loan is insured and a single endorsement is required after satisfactory completion of construction, substantial rehabilitation or repairs. In periodic advances cases, progress payments approved by the HFA and both an initial and final endorsement on the mortgage are required.
(b)
Insurance of advances.
Periodic advances will be authorized by the HFA subject to terms specified by the Commissioner.
(c)
Insurance upon completion
—(1)
New construction and substantial rehabilitation.
An HFA may approve a loan that will be insured upon completion of construction of the project. The HFA approval must prescribe a designated period during which the mortgagor must start construction or substantial rehabilitation. If construction or rehabilitation is started as required, the approval will be valid for the period estimated by the HFA for construction and loan closing, including any extension approved by the HFA.
(2)
Existing projects with no substantial rehabilitation.
Existing projects with or without repairs are only insured upon completion, although HFAs may permit noncritical repairs to be completed after endorsement upon establishment of escrows acceptable to the HFA.
(d)
Requirements applicable to both periodic advances and insurance upon completion cases
—(1)
Inspections.
The
HFA must inspect projects under this part at such times during construction, substantial rehabilitation, or repairs as the HFA determines. The inspections must be conducted to assure compliance with plans and specifications, work write-ups, and other contract documents.
(2)
Approval of advances.
At all times, the loan must be kept in balance, and advances approved only if warranted by construction progress evidenced through HFA inspection, as well as in accord with plans, specifications, work write-ups and other contract documents. In approving advances, HFAs must make certain that other mortgageable items are supported with proper bills and/or receipts before funds can be approved and advanced for insurance.
(3)
Cost certification.
In order to ensure that the final amount for insurance is supported by certified costs:
(i) The mortgagor (and general contractor, if there is an identity of interest with the mortgagor) must execute a certificate of actual costs, in a form acceptable to the HFA, when all physical improvements are completed to the satisfaction of the HFA and before final endorsement; and
(ii) The cost certification provided by the mortgagor must be audited by an independent public accountant.
(4)
Contestability.
Although the HFA has authority to approve the mortgagor's (and general contractor's) certification of cost, the certification will be contestable by the Commissioner during the period up to and including final endorsement of the mortgage. After final endorsement, the certification will be final and incontestable except for fraud or material misrepresentation on the part of the mortgagor (and/or general contractor).
(5)
Assurance of completion.
The mortgagor must furnish assurance of completion of the project in accordance with any requirements of the HFA as to form and amount.
(6)
Latent defects escrow.
The mortgagor must furnish an escrow or other form of assurance required by the HFA to ensure that latent defects can be remedied within the time period required by the HFA.
(e)
Mortgagee of record.
The HFA must remain the mortgagee of record as long as mortgage insurance is in force.
§ 266.315
Recordkeeping requirements.
The mortgagor and the builder, if there is an identity of interest with the mortgagor, shall keep and maintain records of all costs of any construction or other cost items not representing work under the general contract and to make available such records for review by the HFA or HUD, if requested.

# Subpart E—Mortgage and Closing Requirements; HUD Endorsement
§ 266.400
Property requirements—real estate.
The mortgage must be on real estate held:
(a) In fee simple;
(b) Under a renewable lease of not less than 99 years; or
(c) Under a lease executed by a governmental agency, or other lessor approved by the HFA, that has a term at least 10 years beyond the end of the mortgage term.
§ 266.402
Recordation.
At the time of initial endorsement in the case of insurance of advances or at the time of final endorsement in the case of insurance upon completion, the HFA shall make certain that the mortgage and the regulatory agreement are recorded.
§ 266.405
Title.
(a)
Eligibility of title.
Marketable title to the mortgaged property must be vested in the mortgagor on the date the mortgage is filed for record.
(b)
Title evidence.
The HFA must receive a title insurance policy that ensures that marketable title is vested in the mortgagor, that a survey acceptable to the HFA has been performed, and that no existing impediments to title concern, or exist on, the property.
§ 266.410
Mortgage provisions.
(a)
Form.
The mortgage and note must be executed on a form approved by the HFA for use in the jurisdiction in which the property is located.
(b)
Mortgagor.
The mortgage must be executed by a mortgagor determined eligible by the HFA.
(c)
First lien.
The mortgage must be a single first lien on property that has first priority for payment and that conforms with property standards prescribed by the HFA.
(d)
Single asset mortgagor.
The mortgage must require that the mortgagor is a single asset mortgagor.
(e)
Amortization.
The mortgage must provide for complete amortization (
i.e.,
be regularly amortizing) over the term of the mortgage. The complete amortization requirement does not apply to:
(1) Construction loans, or
(2) Level I participants where the loan has a minimum term of 17 years that would amortize over a maximum period of 40 years and the HFA's underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures have been approved by HUD.
(f)
Use restrictions.
The mortgage must contain a covenant prohibiting the use of the property for any purpose other than the purpose intended on the day the mortgage was executed. The conversion of a project from rental to cooperative is not a “change in use” as that term is employed in the mortgage since the property will continue to have a residential use both before and after conversion.
(g)
Hazard insurance.
The mortgage must contain a covenant, acceptable to the HFA, that binds the mortgagor to keep the property insured by one or more standard policies for fire and other hazards stipulated by the HFA. A standard mortgagee clause making loss payable to the HFA must be included in the mortgage. The HFA is responsible for assuring that insurance is maintained in force and in the amount required by this paragraph and the mortgage. The HFA must ensure that the insurance coverage is in an amount that will comply with the coinsurance clause applicable to the location and character of the property, but not less than 80 percent of the actual cash value of the insurable improvements and equipment. If the mortgagor does not obtain the required insurance, the HFA must do so and assess the mortgagor for such costs. These insurance requirements apply as long as the HFA retains an interest in the project and final claim settlement has not been completed or the contract of insurance has not been otherwise terminated.
(h)
Modification of terms.
The mortgage must contain a covenant requiring that, in the event that the HFA and owner agree to a modification of the terms of the mortgage (
e.g.,
to reflect a reduction of the interest rate if reductions are realized in the underlying bond rates for the project), Section 8 rents would be reduced in accordance with HUD guidelines.
(i)
Regulatory Agreement.
The mortgage must contain a provision incorporating the Regulatory Agreement by reference.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.415
Mortgage lien and other obligations.
(a)
Liens.
At the initial and final closing of the loan, the mortgagor and the HFA must certify, and the HFA must determine, that the property covered by the mortgage is free from all liens other than the lien of the insured mortgage, except that the property may be subject to such inferior lien or liens as approved by the HFA as long as the insured mortgage has first priority for payment.
(b)
Contractual obligations.
At the final closing of the loan, the mortgagor and the HFA must certify, and the HFA must determine, that all contractual obligations in connection with the mortgage transaction, including the purchase of the property and the improvements to the property, are paid. An exception is made for obligations that are approved by the HFA and determined by the HFA to be of a lesser priority for payment than the obligation of the insured mortgage.
§ 266.417
Authority to adjust mortgage insurance amount.
In order to protect the mortgage insurance funds, the Commissioner has authority in his or her sole discretion, at any time prior to and including final endorsement, to adjust the amount of the mortgage insurance.
§ 266.420
Closing and endorsement by the Commissioner.
(a)
Closing.
Before disbursement of loan advances in periodic advances cases, and in all cases after completion of construction, repair or substantial rehabilitation, the HFA must hold a closing and submit a closing docket with required documentation to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized Departmental representative for insurance of the mortgage by endorsement of the mortgage note. The note must provide that the mortgage is insured under section 542(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 and the regulations set forth in this part that are in effect on the date of endorsement. The note must also specify the date of endorsement,
i.e.,
the date of HUD endorsement of the project mortgage, and the risk of loss assumed by the HFA and by HUD.
(b)
Closing docket.
The HFA's submission must include a certification that it has obtained written HUD approval of compliance with the requirements referred to in § 266.210, and certifications and information as follows:
(1) Information concerning the mortgage amount and term, location, number and type of units, income and expenses, rents, projects and market occupancy percentages, value/replacement cost, interest rate, and similar statistical information in accordance with the Commissioner's administrative procedures.
(2) Copies of the amortization schedule, Note and Risk-Sharing Agreement.
(3) Certification that the loan has been processed, prudently underwritten (including a determination that a market exists for the project), cost certified (if the project is being submitted for final endorsement) and closed in full compliance with the HFA's standards and requirements (or where the mortgage is insured under Level II, in full compliance with the underwriting standards, loan terms and conditions, and asset management and servicing procedures, as approved by HUD).
(4) At the time of final endorsement, for periodic advances cases, a certification that the advances were made in accordance with the mortgage pursuant to § 266.310.
(5) A copy of the HFA-approved cost certification if the project is submitted for final endorsement.
(6) A certification that equal employment requirements are followed.
(7) A certification that the HFA has reviewed and approved the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, required by § 266.215(a), and found it acceptable.
(8) A certification that a dedicated account, if required, has been increased in accordance with § 266.110(b).
(9) Certifications required under § 266.415 concerning liens and contractual obligations.
(10) Copies of the Hazard Insurance Policy with a clause making the loss payable to the HFA.
(11) For projects subject to Davis-Bacon prevailing requirements under § 266.225, the certification and information concerning payment of prevailing wage rates required by § 266.225(d).
(12) Certified copies of mortgage (deed of trust) with attached regulatory agreement, and note for HUD files.
(13) Certification that housing claiming the housing for older persons exemption is eligible for and complies with 42 U.S.C. 3607(b) and 24 CFR part 100, subpart E.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]

# Subpart F—Project Management and Servicing
§ 266.500
General.
(a)
HFA responsibility for monitoring project owners.
The HFA will have full responsibility for managing and servicing projects insured under this part (in accordance with procedures disclosed and submitted with its application and the requirements of this part). The HFA is responsible for monitoring and determining the compliance of the project owner in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. HUD will monitor the performance of the HFA, not the project owner, to determine its compliance with the provisions covered under this subpart.
(b)
HUD review of procedures for HFAs with Level II approval.
Asset management and servicing procedures of any
HFA electing to take less than 50 percent of the risk on certain projects are subject to review, modification, and approval by HUD in accordance with § 266.100(b).
[85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.505
Regulatory agreement requirements.
(a)
General.
(1) The HFA must execute a Regulatory Agreement, in recordable form, between the mortgagor and the HFA to be in force for the duration of the insured mortgage and note or bond. The Regulatory Agreement must include a description of the property. The Regulatory Agreement must be incorporated by reference into the mortgage and recorded with the mortgage.
(2) The Regulatory Agreement executed between the HFA and the mortgagor must be binding upon the mortgagor and any of its successors and assigns and upon the HFA and any of its successors for so long as the mortgage is insured by HUD or HUD holds an HFA debenture issued in connection with a claim arising from the insured mortgage. The HFA may not assign the Regulatory Agreement.
(3) The HFA will enforce the Regulatory Agreement and take actions against any mortgagors who violate its provisions. Such actions may involve a declaration of default and application to any court for specific performance of the agreement.
(b)
Requirements.
The Regulatory Agreement must require the mortgagor to comply with the provisions of this part and obligate the mortgagor, among other things, to:
(1) Make all payments due under the mortgage and note/bond.
(2) Where necessary, establish a sinking fund for future capital needs.
(3) Maintain the project as affordable housing, as defined in § 266.5.
(4) Continue to use dwelling units for their original purposes.
(5) Comply with such other requirements as may be established by the HFA and set forth in the Regulatory Agreement.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Maintain complete books and records established solely for the project.
(8) Comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, required by § 266.215(a), and all other fair housing and equal opportunity requirements.
(9) Operate as a single asset mortgagor.
(10) Make books and records available for HUD or U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) review with appropriate notification.
(11) Permit HUD officials or employees to inspect the project upon request by the Commissioner.
(c)
Enforcement.
The Regulatory Agreement shall be enforced by the HFA.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 46578, 46593, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16296, Mar. 27, 2000; 85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.507
Maintenance requirements.
The mortgagor must maintain the project in accordance with the physical condition standards in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G (Physical Condition Standards and Inspection Requirements).
[85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.510
HFA responsibilities.
(a)
Inspections.
The HFA must perform inspections in accordance with the physical inspection procedures in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G (Physical Condition Standards and Inspection Requirements).
(b)
Annual audits of projects.
The HFA must analyze projects' annual audits and provide a copy to HUD along with a summary of unresolved findings and actions planned, with target dates, to correct unresolved findings.
(c)
HFA's annual financial statement.
The HFA must provide HUD with annual audited financial statement in accordance with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 46578, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16296, Mar. 27, 2000; 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015; 85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.515
Record retention.
(a)
Loan origination and servicing.
Records pertaining to the mortgage loan origination and servicing of the loan must be maintained for as long as the insurance remains in force.
(b)
Defaults and claims.
Records pertaining to a mortgage default and claim must be retained from the date of default through final settlement of the claim for a period of no less than three years after final settlement.
§ 266.520
Program monitoring and compliance.
HUD will monitor the performance of the HFA in accordance with the provisions covered under this subpart.

# Subpart G—Contract Rights and Obligations

# Mortgage Insurance Premiums
§ 266.600
Mortgage insurance premium: Insurance upon completion.
(a)
Initial premium.
For projects insured upon completion, on the date of the final closing, the HFA shall pay to the Commissioner an initial premium in an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604.
(b)
Premium payable with first payment of principal.
On the date of the first payment of principal the HFA shall pay a second premium (calculated on a per annum basis) in an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604.
(c)
Subsequent premiums.
Until one of the conditions is met under § 266.606(a), the HFA on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay to the Commissioner an annual mortgage insurance premium in an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604, without taking into account delinquent payments, or partial claim payment under § 266.630, or prepayments, for the year following the date on which the premium becomes payable.
[85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.602
Mortgage insurance premium: Insured advances.
(a)
Initial premium.
For projects involving insured advances, on the date of the initial closing, the HFA shall pay to the Commissioner an initial premium equal to an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604.
(b)
Interim premium.
On each anniversary of the initial closing, the HFA shall pay an interim mortgage insurance premium in an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604. The HFA shall continue to pay the interim mortgage insurance premiums until the date of the first principal payment.
(c)
Premium payable with first payment of principal.
On the date of the first principal payment, the HFA shall pay a mortgage insurance premium in an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604. The HFA shall adjust this payment by deducting an amount equal to the portion of the last premium paid that is attributable to the months after the date of the first payment to principal. Any partial month is to be counted as a whole month. The HFA shall remit the net adjusted mortgage premium to the Commissioner and refund the amount of the adjustment (overpayment) to the mortgagor.
(d)
Subsequent premiums.
Until one of the conditions is met under § 266.606(a), the HFA on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay to the Commissioner an annual mortgage insurance premium in an amount established by the Commissioner under § 266.604, without taking into account delinquent payments, prepayments, or a partial claim payment under § 266.630, for the year following the date on which the premium becomes payable.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.604
Mortgage insurance premium: Other requirements.
(a)
Premium calculations on or after first principal payment.
The premiums payable to the Commissioner on and after the first principal payment shall be calculated in accordance with the amortization schedule prepared by the HFA for final closing and an amount established by the Commissioner through a notice published in the
Federal Register
and providing a 30-day comment period. After the comments have been considered, HUD will publish a final notice announcing the premium and its effective date. The premium shall not take into account delinquent payments or prepayments.
(b)
Future premium changes.
Notice of future premium changes will be published in the
Federal Register.
The Commissioner will propose mortgage insurance premium changes for the Risk-Sharing Program and provide a 30-calendar day public comment period for the purpose of accepting comments on whether the proposed changes are appropriate. After the comments have been considered, HUD will publish a final notice announcing the premium and its effective date.
(c)
Closing information.
The HFA shall provide final closing information to the Commissioner within 15 calendar days of the final closing in a format prescribed by the Commissioner. In addition, the HFA shall submit a copy of the amortization schedule. This amortization shall be used to compute and collect all future mortgage insurance premiums subject to § 266.600(c) or § 266.602(d). If the mortgage is modified, the HFA shall submit to the Commissioner a copy of the revised amortization schedule, which shall be used to compute and collect all future mortgage insurance premiums subject to § 266.600(c) or § 266.602(d).
(d)
Due date for premium payments.
Mortgage insurance premiums are due on the first day of the month of the anniversary of the first payment to principal. Any premium received by the Commissioner more than 15 calendar days after the due date shall be assessed a late charge of 4 percent of the amount of the premium payment due. Mortgage insurance premiums that are paid to the Commissioner more than 30 calendar days after the due date shall begin to accrue interest at the rate prescribed by the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83444, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.606
Mortgage insurance premium: Duration and method of paying.
(a)
Duration of payments.
Mortgage insurance premium payments must continue annually until one of the following occurs:
(1) The mortgage is paid in full;
(2) A deed to the HFA is filed for record;
(3) An application for initial claim payment is received by the Commissioner; or
(4) The contract of insurance is otherwise terminated.
(b)
Method of payment.
The HFA shall pay any mortgage insurance premium required by this part in cash.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83440, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.608
Mortgage insurance premium: Pro rata refund.
If the contract of insurance is terminated by payment in full or is terminated by the HFA on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, after the date of the first payment to principal, the Commissioner shall refund any mortgage insurance premium for the period after the effective date of the termination of insurance. The refund shall be mailed to the HFA for credit to the mortgagor's account. In computing the pro rata portion of the annual mortgage insurance premium, the date of termination of insurance shall be the last day of the month in which the mortgage is prepaid or the Commissioner receives a notification of termination, whichever is later. No refund shall be made if the insurance was terminated because of the submission of an application for initial claim payment or if the termination occurs before the date of the first payment to principal.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83440, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.610
Method of payment of mortgage insurance premiums.
In the cases that the Commissioner deems appropriate, the Commissioner may require, by means of instructions communicated to all affected mortgagees, that mortgage insurance premiums be remitted electronically.
[63 FR 1303, Jan. 8, 1998]

# Insurance Endorsement
§ 266.612
Insurance endorsement.
(a)
Initial endorsement.
The Commissioner shall indicate his or her insurance of the mortgage by endorsing the original credit instrument.
(b)
Final endorsement.
When all advances of mortgage proceeds have been made and all other applicable terms and conditions have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall indicate on the original credit instrument the total of all advances that have been approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument.
(c)
Effect of endorsement.
From the date of initial endorsement, the Commissioner and the HFA shall be bound by the provisions of this subpart to the same extent as if they had executed a contract including the provisions of this subpart and the applicable sections of the Act.

# Assignments
§ 266.616
Transfer of partial interest under participation agreement.
The HFA may not assign the mortgage. However, a partial interest in an insured mortgage or pool of insured mortgages may be transferred under a participation agreement or arrangement (such as a declaration of trust or the issuance of pass-through certificates), without obtaining the approval of the Commissioner, if the following conditions are met:
(a) Legal title to the insured mortgage or mortgages shall be held by the HFA; and
(b) The participation agreement, declaration of trust or other instrument under which the partial interest is transferred shall provide that:
(1) The HFA shall remain mortgagee of record under the contract of mortgage insurance;
(2) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with anyone other than the HFA with respect to the rights, benefits, and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance; and
(3) The mortgagor shall have no obligation to recognize or do business with any one other than the HFA or, if applicable, its servicing agent with respect to rights, benefits, and obligations of the mortgagor or the mortgagee under the mortgage.

# Termination
§ 266.620
Termination of contract of insurance and indemnification.
(a) The contract of insurance shall terminate if any of the following occurs:
(1) The mortgage is paid in full;
(2) The HFA acquires the mortgaged property and notifies the Commissioner that it will not file an insurance claim;
(3) A party other than HFA acquires the property at a foreclosure sale;
(4) The HFA notifies the Commissioner of Termination of Insurance (voluntary termination);
(5) The HFA or its successors commit fraud or make a material misrepresentation to the Commissioner with respect to information culminating in the contract of insurance on the mortgage or while the contract of insurance is in existence;
(6) The receipt by the Commissioner of an Application for Final Claims Settlement;
(7) If the HFA acquires the mortgaged property and fails to make an initial claim.
