(iv) Certified list of directors/officers with their respective terms.
(2) Evidence of tax exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), if applicable.
(3) Narrative of applicant's experience in providing services similar to those proposed. Provide brief description of successfully completed projects including the need that was identified and objectives accomplished.
(4) Latest financial information to show the applicant's financial capacity to carry out the proposed work. A current audit report is preferred, however applicants can submit a balance sheet and an income statement in lieu of an audit report.
(5) List of proposed services to be provided.
(6) Estimated breakdown of costs (direct and indirect) including those to be funded by grantee as well as other sources. Sufficient detail should be provided to permit the approval official to determine reasonableness, applicability, and allowability.
(7) Evidence that a Financial Management System is in place or proposed.
(8) Documentation on each of the priority ranking criteria listed in § 1775.11 as follows:
(i) List of the associations to be served and the State or States where assistance will be provided. Identify associations by name, or other characteristics such as size, income, location, and provide MHI and population.
(ii) Description of the type of technical assistance and/or training to be provided and the tasks to be contracted.
(iii) Description of how the project will be evaluated and provide clearly stated goals and the method proposed to measure the results that will be obtained.
(iv) Documentation of need for proposed service. Provide detailed explanation of how the proposed services differ from other similar services being provided in the same area.
(v) Personnel on staff or to be contracted to provide the service and their experience with similar projects.
(vi) Statement indicating the number of months it takes to complete the project or service.
(vii) Documentation on cost effectiveness of project. Provide the cost per association to be served or proposed cost of personnel to provide assistance.
(viii) Other factors for consideration, such as emergency situation, training need identified, health or safety problems, geographic distribution, Rural Development Office recommendations, etc.
[70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76005, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]
§ 1775.11
Priority.
The application and supporting information will be used to determine the applicant's priority for available funds. All applications will be reviewed and scored for funding priority in accordance with RUS Guide 1775-2. Points will be given only for factors that are well documented in the application package and, in the opinion of the RUS, meet the objective outlined under each factor. The following is a listing of the criteria that will be used to select the applications that meet the objectives of the technical assistance program.
(a) Projects proposing to give priority for available services to rural communities having a population less than 5,500 and/or below 2,500.
(b) Projects proposing to give priority for available services to low income communities.
(c) Projects that will provide assistance in a multi-State area.
(d) Points will be awarded for work plans that clearly describe the goals and objectives of the project, how they
will be accomplished in targeted communities, and what measurement of accomplishment will be used.
(e) Projects containing needs assessment (i.e. actual issue or problem being addressed) clearly defined and supported by data.
(f) Projects containing evaluation methods that are specific to the activity, clearly defined, measurable, and with projected outcomes.
(g) Applicants proposing to use at least 75 percent of the total grant amount for their own staff, or the staff of an affiliated organization to provide services for a project instead of contracting with an outside organization for the services.
(h) Projects providing technical assistance/training that accomplish the objective within a 12-month or less timeframe.
(i) Projects primarily providing “hands on” technical assistance and training,
i.e.,
on-site assistance as opposed to preparation and distribution of printed material, to communities with existing water and waste systems which are experiencing operation and maintenance or management problems; and/or provide technical assistance and training to water supply systems or waste facilities that are unhealthful (
i.e.,
emerging contaminants detected in drinking water and surface water supplies.)
(j) Cash or in kind support of project from non-federal sources.
(k) Ability to demonstrate sustainability of project without Federal financial support.
[70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 23210, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1775.12
Grant processing.
(a)
Single State applications.
(1) Grant applications submitted at the State level will receive a letter acknowledging receipt and confirmation that all information required for a full application was included in the packet. The State will notify the applicant of missing information. The applicant will have 14 business days to respond.
(2) The State Office will review applications for eligibility. Those applicants that are deemed ineligible will be notified. Applicants deemed eligible will be forwarded to the National Office for funding consideration.
(3) The National Office will review all applications received from State Offices. Applications will compete on a priority basis and will be scored and ranked. The applications receiving the highest scores and subject to the availability of funds will be selected for final processing. The National Office will send these applications back to the State Office for processing. The State Office will notify the applicant(s) that they have been selected for funding.
(4) Applicants not selected for funding due to low priority rating shall be notified by the State Office.
(b)
National and multi-State applications.
(1) National and multi-State applications submitted to the National Office will receive a letter acknowledging receipt and confirmation that all information required for a full application was included in the packet. The National Office shall notify the applicant of missing information. The applicant will have 14 business days to respond.
(2) The National Office will review applications for eligibility. Those applications that are deemed ineligible will be notified. Applications deemed eligible will be reviewed and given a rating score. Applications receiving the highest scores will be grouped with those received from State Offices for funding consideration.
(3) The National Office will review all applications received. Applications will compete on a priority basis and will be scored and ranked. The applications receiving the highest scores and subject to the availability of funds will be notified by the National Office that they have been selected for funding. The National Office shall conduct final processing of multi-State and national applications.
(4) Multi-State and National applicants not selected for funding due to low priority rating will be notified by the National Office.
(c)
Low priority applications.
Applications that cannot be funded in the fiscal year received will not be retained for consideration in the following fiscal year and will be handled as outlined in paragraph (a)(4) or (b)(4) of this section.
§ 1775.13
Grant agreement.
Applicants selected for funding will complete a grant agreement, RUS Guide 1775-1, which outlines the terms and conditions of the grant award.
§§ 1775.14-1775.17
[Reserved]
§ 1775.18
Fund disbursement.
Grantees will be reimbursed as follows:
(a) SF-270, “Request for Advance or Reimbursement,” will be completed by the grantee and submitted to either the State or National Office not more frequently than monthly.
(b) Upon receipt of a properly completed SF-270, the funds will be requested through the field office terminal system. Ordinarily, payment will be made within 30 days after receipt of a proper request for reimbursement.
(c) Grantees are encouraged to use women- and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members) for the deposit and disbursement of funds.
§ 1775.19
Grant cancellation or major changes.
Any change in the scope of the project, budget adjustments of more than 10 percent of the total budget, or any other significant change in the project must be reported to and approved by the approval official by written amendment to RUS Guide 1775-1. Any change not approved may be cause for termination of the grant.
§ 1775.20
Reporting.
(a) Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met, projected work by time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved.
(b) SF-425,” Federal Financial Report,” and a project performance activity report will be required of all grantees on a quarterly basis, due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(c) A final project performance report will be required with the last SF-425 due 90 days after the end of the last quarter in which the project is completed. The final report may serve as the last quarterly report.
(d) All multi-State grantees are to submit an original of each report to the National Office. Grantees serving only one State are to submit an original of each report to the State Office. The project performance reports should detail, preferably in a narrative format, activities that have transpired for the specific time period and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period (i.e. number of meetings held, number of people contacted, results of activity);
(2) Analysis of challenges or setbacks that occurred during the grant period;
(3) Copies of fliers, news releases, news articles, announcements and other information used to promote services or projects;
(4) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect attainment of overall project objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and
(5) Activities planned for the next reporting period.
[70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76005, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 1775.21
Audit or financial statements.
The grantee will provide an audit report or financial statements as follows:
(a) In accordance with subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, grantees expending Federal funds each fiscal year equal to or greater than the current Single Audit threshold will submit an audit. The audit will be submitted within 30 calendar days after the auditee receives the auditor's report or 9 months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year, whichever is earlier.
(b) Grantees expending less than the current Single Audit dollar threshold will provide annual financial statements covering the grant period, consisting of the organization's statement of income and expense, and balance sheet signed by an authorized official
of the organization. Financial statements will be submitted within 90 days after the grantee's fiscal year end.
[70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76005, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 82484, Oct. 11, 2024]
§ 1775.22
[Reserved]
§ 1775.23
Grant servicing.
Grants will be serviced in accordance with RUS Guide 1775-1 and subpart E of part 1951 of this title. When grants are terminated for cause, 7 CFR part 11 will be followed.
§ 1775.24
Delegation of authority.
The authority under this part is re-delegated to the Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, except for the discretionary authority contained in §§ 1775.34 and 1775.68. The Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs may re-delegate the authority in this part.
§§ 1775.25-1775.30
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Technical Assistance and Training Grants
§ 1775.31
Authorization.
This subpart sets forth additional policies and procedures for making Technical Assistance and Training (TAT) grants authorized under Section 306(a)(14)(A) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT) (7 U.S.C. 1921
et seq.,
as amended.
§ 1775.32
[Reserved]
§ 1775.33
Objectives.
The objectives of the program are to:
(a) Identify and evaluate solutions to water and waste problems in rural areas.
(b) Assist applicants in preparing applications for water and waste disposal loans/grants.
(c) Assist associations in improving operation and maintenance of existing water and waste facilities in rural areas.
§ 1775.34
Source of funds.
Grants will be made from not less than 1 percent or not more than 3 percent of any appropriations for grants under Section 306(a)(2) of the CONACT. Funds not obligated by September 1 of each fiscal year will be used for water and waste disposal grants made in accordance with part 1780 of this chapter.
§ 1775.35
Eligibility.
(a) Entities eligible for grants must be private nonprofit organizations with tax exempt status, designated by the Internal Revenue Service. A nonprofit organization is defined as any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization that:
(1) Is operated primarily for scientific, education, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest.
(2) Is not organized primarily for profit.
(3) Uses its net proceeds to maintain, improve, and/or expand its operations.
(b) Entities must be legally established and located within a state as defined in § 1775.2.
(c) Organizations must be incorporated by December 31 of the year the application period occurs to be eligible for funds.
(d) Private businesses, Federal agencies, public bodies, and individuals are ineligible for these grants.
(e) Applicants must also have the proven ability, background, experience (as evidenced by the organization's satisfactory completion of project(s) similar to those proposed), legal authority, and actual capacity to provide technical assistance and/or training on a regional basis to associations as provided in § 1775.33. To meet the requirement of actual capacity, an applicant must either:
(1) Have the necessary resources to provide technical assistance and/or training to associations in rural areas through its staff, or
(2) Be assisted by an affiliate or member organization which has such background and experience and which agrees, in writing, that it will provide the assistance, or
(3) Contract with a nonaffiliated organization for not more than 49 percent of the grant to provide the proposed assistance.
§ 1775.36
Purpose.
Grants may be made to organizations as defined in § 1775.35 to enable such organizations to assist associations to:
(a) Identify and evaluate solutions to water problems of associations in rural areas relating to source, storage, treatment, and/or distribution.
(b) Identify and evaluate solutions to waste problems of associations in rural areas relating to collection, treatment, and/or disposal.
(c) Prepare water and/or waste disposal loan/grant applications.
(d) Provide technical assistance/training to association personnel that will improve the management, operation, and maintenance of water and waste facilities.
(e) Identify options to enhance the long-term sustainability of rural water and waste systems, including operational practices, revenue enhancements, partnerships, consolidation, regionalization, or contract services.
(f) Address the contamination of drinking water and surface water supplies by emerging contaminants, including per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
(g) Pay the expenses associated with providing the technical assistance and/or training authorized in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
[70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 23210, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1775.37
Allocation of funds.
At least 10 percent of available funds will be used for funding single State projects based on the priority criteria.
§§ 1775.38-1775.60
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Solid Waste Management Grants
§ 1775.61
Authorization.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures for making Solid Waste Management (SWM) grants authorized under section 310B of the CONACT.
§ 1775.62
[Reserved]
§ 1775.63
Objectives.
The objectives of the program are to:
(a) Reduce or eliminate pollution of water resources, and
(b) Improve planning and management of solid waste sites.
§ 1775.64
[Reserved]
§ 1775.65
Eligibility.
(a) Entities eligible for grants must be either:
(1) Private nonprofit organizations with tax exempt status designated by the Internal Revenue Service. A nonprofit organization is defined as any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization that:
(i) Is operated primarily for scientific, education, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest.
(ii) Is not organized primarily for profit.
(iii) Uses its net proceeds to maintain, improve, and/or expand its operations.
(2) Public bodies.
(3) Federally acknowledged or State-recognized Native American tribe or group.
(4) Academic institutions.
(b) Entities must be legally established and located within a state as defined in § 1775.2.
(c) Organizations must be incorporated by December 31 of the year the application period occurs to be eligible for funds.
(d) Private businesses, Federal agencies, and individuals are ineligible for these grants.
(e) Applicants must also have the proven ability; background; experience, as evidenced by the organization's satisfactory completion of project(s) similar to those proposed; legal authority; and actual capacity to provide technical assistance and/or training on a regional basis to associations as provided in § 1775.63. To meet the requirement of actual capacity, an applicant must either:
(1) Have the necessary resources to provide technical assistance and/or training to associations in rural areas through its staff, or
(2) Be assisted by an affiliate or member organization which has such background and experience and which
agrees, in writing, that it will provide the assistance, or
(3) Contract with a nonaffiliated organization for not more than 49 percent of the grant to provide the proposed assistance.
§ 1775.66
Purpose.
Grants may be made to organizations as defined in § 1775.65 to enable such organizations to assist associations to:
(a) Provide technical assistance and/or training to reduce the solid waste stream through reduction, recycling, and reuse.
(b) Provide training to enhance operator skills in maintaining and operating active landfills.
(c) Provide technical assistance and/or training for operators of landfills which are closed or will be closed in the near future with the development/implementation of closure plans, future land use plans, safety and maintenance planning, and closure scheduling within permit requirements.
(d) Evaluate current landfill conditions to determine the threats to water resources.
(e) Pay the expenses associated with providing the technical assistance and/or training authorized in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
§ 1775.67
Allocation of funds.
The maximum amount for a single applicant for a Solid Waste Management project will be 25 percent of available grant funds.
§ 1775.68
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law and is determined to be in the Government's interest.
§§ 1775.69-1775.99
[Reserved]
Pt. 1776

# PART 1776—RURAL DECENTRALIZED WATER SYSTEMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1776.1
Purpose.
1776.2
Uniform Federal Assistance Provisions.
1776.3
Definitions.
1776.4
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—DWS Grants
1776.5
Eligibility to receive a DWS grant.
1776.6
Funding availability.
1776.7
DWS grant application process.
1776.8
Methods for submitting applications.
1776.9
Scoring applications.
1776.10
Grant agreement.
1776.11
Revolving loan fund.
1776.12
Use of DWS Grant proceeds.
1776.13
Administrative expenses.

# Subpart C—DWS Loans
1776.14
Eligibility to receive a DWS loan.
1776.15
Terms of loans.
1776.16
Loan servicing.
1776.17
Revolving loan fund maintenance.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1926e.

# Source:
70 FR 28788, May 19, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1776.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the policies and procedures for Rural Utilities Service making grants to private nonprofit organizations for the purpose of providing loans and subgrants to eligible individuals for the construction, refurbishing, and servicing of individually owned household water well systems and individually owned decentralized wastewater systems in rural areas that are or will be owned by the eligible individuals.
[85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1776.2
Uniform Federal Assistance Provisions.
(a) This program is subject to the general provisions that apply to all grants made by USDA and that are set forth in 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as well as the following:
(1) 2 CFR part 415—General Program Administrative Requirements.
(2) 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementing Executive Order 12549 on debarment and suspension.
(3) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying, prohibiting the use of appropriated funds to influence Congress or a Federal agency in connection with the making of any Federal grant and other Federal contracting and financial transactions.
(4) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance), implementing the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C 8102).
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 7697, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 1776.3
Definitions.
Administrative expenses
means expenses incurred by a grant recipient that are of the type more particularly described in Section 13 of this part.
Applicant
means a private, non-profit organization that applies for a DWS grant under this part.
Centralized Servicing Center (CSC)
means the centralized loan servicing center within the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development. CSC provides nationwide services for borrowers that have received financing from Rural Development programs.
Construction
means building or assembling a water well system or portion thereof, that is not a water well system or portion thereof being constructed in connection with a new building.
Contamination
means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance of matter in water, either exceeding or having potential to exceed State or Federal standards.
Decentralized Water System (DWS)
means either a household water well or a septic system. This definition also includes decentralized wastewater systems which are onsite or clustered systems used to collect, treat, and disperse or reclaim wastewater from a small community or service area.
Eligible individual
means an individual who is a member of a household the members of which have a combined income (for the most recent 12-month period for which the information is available) that is not more than 60 percent of the median nonmetropolitan household income for the State or territory in which the individual resides, according to 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median nonmetropolitan household income for the State or territory in which the individual resides, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.
Funding opportunity announcement (FOA)
means a publicly available document by which a Federal agency makes know its intentions to award discretionary grants or cooperative agreements, usually as a result of competition for funds. FOA announcements may be known as program announcements, notices of funding availability, solicitations, or other names depending on the agency and type of program. FOA announcements can be found at
www.Grants.gov
in the Search Grants tab and on the funding agency's or program's website.
Grant agreement
means the contract between RUS and the grant recipient which sets forth the terms and conditions governing a particular grant awarded under this part.
Grant recipient
means an applicant that has been awarded a DWS grant under this part.
Loan recipient
means an eligible individual who has received a DWS loan.
Refurbishing
means to renovate or to restore a water well system or portion thereof to near new condition.
Revolved funds
means the cash portion of the revolving loan fund that is not composed of DWS grant funds, including repayments of revolving DWS loans, fees, and interest collected on DWS loans.
Revolving loan fund
means the loan fund established by the grant recipient to carry out the purposes of this part, such fund comprising the proceeds of a DWS grant and other related assets.
Rural area
means any area other than a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants, the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent
to such city or town, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, a Federal agency delivering the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Utilities Program.
Septic System
means systems designed to treat wastewater from household plumbing fixtures through both natural and technological processes.
Servicing
means making repairs or performing maintenance on a water well system or portion thereof.
Subgrants
means a grant awarded to a decentralized water system owner in order to refurbish or replace a well or septic system.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
[70 FR 28788, May 19, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 9862, Feb. 24, 2015; 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018; 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020; 87 FR 38643, June 29, 2022]
§ 1776.4
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—DWS Grants
§ 1776.5
Eligibility to receive a DWS grant.
(a) The applicant must be a private organization.
(b) The applicant must be organized as a non-profit organization.
(c) The applicant must have legal capacity and lawful authority to perform the obligations of a grant recipient under this part. Example 1: If the organization is incorporated as a non-profit corporation, it must have corporate authority under state law and its corporate charter to engage in the practice of making loans to individuals. Example 2: if the organization is an unincorporated association, state law may prevent the organization from entering into binding contracts, such as a grant agreement.
(d) The applicant must have sufficient expertise and experience in lending and in promoting the safe and productive use of individually-owned decentralized water systems and ground water to assure the likelihood that the objectives of this part can be achieved.
§ 1776.6
Funding availability.
A FOA will be posted to
www.Grants.gov
in fiscal years that funds are available for this program. The FOA will establish the period during which applications for such funds may be submitted for consideration.
[83 FR 45034, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1776.7
DWS Grant application process.
(a) The applicant must complete and submit the following standard forms to RUS to apply for a DWS grant under this part:
(1) Application for Federal Assistance:
Standard Form 424,
(2) Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs:
Standard Form 424A,
and
(3) Assurances—Non-Construction Programs:
Standard Form 424B.
(b) The applicant must submit a written work plan that demonstrates the feasibility of the applicant's lending program to meet the objectives of this part.
(c) The applicant should submit a narrative establishing the basis for any claims that it has substantial expertise in promoting the safe and productive use of individually-owned decentralized water systems. The Secretary will give priority to an applicant that demonstrates it has substantial experience of this type.
(d) The applicant must submit:
(1) A pro forma balance sheet at start-up and projected balance sheets for at least three additional years,
(2) Financial statements for the last three years, or from inception of the operations of the grant recipient if less than three years, and
(3) Projected cash flow and earnings statements for at least three years, supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. The projected earnings statement and balance sheets must include one set of projections specific to the revolving loan fund, and a separate set of projections that detail the proposed applicant organization's total operations.
(e) The applicant may submit such additional information as it elects to support and describe its plan for achieving the objectives of this part.
§ 1776.8
Methods for submitting applications.
(a) Applications may be filed in either paper or electronic format. RUS will not accept applications by fax or e-mail.
(b) Paper applications for DWS grants may be delivered by the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) or courier delivery services. Applications submitted by mail or courier must be postmarked no later than the filing deadline to be considered for the grant period. Applications delivered by mail or courier must be addressed to the attention of the Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs as follows: ATTN: Assistant Administrator, WEP, Rural Utilities Service, Stop 1548 Room 5145 South, 1400 Independence Ave. SW., Washington, DC 20250-1548.
(c) Electronic applications may be filed through Grants.gov, the official Federal Government Web site at
http://www.grants.gov.
The applicant must be registered with Grants.gov before they can submit a grant applicant. The applicant should refer to instructions found on the Grants.gov Web site for procedures for registering and using this facility. An applicant who is not registered on Grants.gov should allow a sufficient number of business days to complete the process. Applications submitted electronically must be show an electronic date and time stamp on or before the filing deadline to be considered for the grant period.
(d) The methods of submitting applications may be changed from time to reflect changes in addresses and electronic submission procedures. The applicant should refer to the most recent FOA for notice of any such changes. In the event of any discrepancy, the most recent FOA must be followed.
[70 FR 28788, May 19, 2005, as amended as 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1776.9
Scoring applications.
(a) Applications that are incomplete or ineligible will be returned to the applicant, accompanied by a statement explaining why the application is being returned.
(b) Promptly after an application period closes, all applications that are complete and eligible will be ranked competitively based on the following scoring criteria:
(1) Degree of expertise and experience in promoting the safe and productive use of individually-owned decentralized water systems and ground water. Up to 30 points
(2) Degree of expertise and successful experience in making and servicing loans to individuals. Up to 20 points
(3) Percentage of applicant contributions. Points allowed under this paragraph will be based on written evidence of the availability of funds from sources other than the proceeds of a DWS grant to pay part of the cost of a loan recipient's project. In-kind contributions will not be considered. Funds from other sources as a percentage of the DWS grant and points corresponding to such percentages are as follows:
(i) 0 to 9 percent—ineligible;
(ii) 10 to 25 percent—5 points;
(iii) 26 to 30 percent—10 points;
(iv) 31 to 50 percent—15 points; and
(v) 51 percent or more—20 points
(4) Extent to which the work plan demonstrates a well thought out, comprehensive approach to accomplishing the objectives of this part, clearly defines who will be served by the project, and appears likely to be sustainable. Up to 20 points
(5) Extent to which the goals and objectives are clearly defined, tied to the work plan, and measurable. Up to 10 points
(6) Lowest ratio of projected administrative expenses to loans advanced. 10 points
(7) Administrator's discretion, considering such factors as creative outreach ideas for marketing DWS loans to rural residents, the amount of funds requested in relation to the amount of needs demonstrated in the work plan, previous experiences demonstrating excellent utilization of a revolving loan fund grant, and optimizing the use of agency resources. Up to 10 points
(c) All qualifying applications under this part will be scored based on the criteria contained in this section. Awards will be made based on the highest ranking applications and the amount of financial assistance available for DWS grants. All applicants
will be notified in writing of the score each application receives.
§ 1776.10
Grant agreement.
(a) RUS and the grantee will enter into an agreement setting forth the terms and conditions governing a particular DWS grant award. RUS will furnish the form of grant agreement. No funds awarded under this part shall be disbursed to the grant recipient before the grant agreement is binding and RUS has received a fully executed counterpart of the grant agreement.
(b) The grantee or RUS may initiate an amendment or modification to the grant agreement to provide for a loan limit up to $15,000. No change in the grant agreement requested by the grant recipient will be effective unless approved in writing by RUS.
[73 FR 68294, Nov. 18, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1776.11
Revolving loan fund.
The grant recipient shall establish and maintain a revolving loan fund for the purposes set forth in § 1776.12. All loans made to loan recipients shall be drawn from the revolving loan fund. The loans shall be serviced, and the revolving loan fund shall be maintained, as set forth in § 1776.17.
§ 1776.12
Use of DWS Grant proceeds.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in the next paragraph. The DWS grant process shall be used solely for the purpose of providing loans to eligible individuals for the construction, refurbishing, and servicing of individual decentralized water systems in rural areas that are or will be owned by the eligible individuals.
(b) A grant recipient may use DWS grant funds to pay administrative expenses associated with providing the assistance described in the immediately preceding paragraph.
(c) A grant recipient may not use grant funds in any manner inconsistent with the terms of the grant agreement.
(d) In the event of ground well water contamination, the Secretary shall allow a loan or subgrant to be made with grant funds under this section for the installation of water treatment where needed beyond the point of entry, with or without the installation of a new water well system.
(e) Any entities responsible for fouling a drinking water supply are not eligible to be the recipients of an award for this program.
[70 FR 28788, May 19, 2005, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1776.13
Administrative expenses.
(a) Subject to the limitations provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section, the grant recipient may use grant funds to pay administrative expenses associated with providing DWS loans.
(b) Administrative expenses incurred in any calendar year which exceed 10 percent of the DWS loans made by the grant recipient during that same period do not qualify for reimbursement.
(c) Administrative expenses incurred prior to the execution of the grant agreement by RUS do not qualify for reimbursement.
(d) Allowability of administrative expense costs shall be determined in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
[70 FR 28788, May 19, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 76005, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart C—DWS Loans
§ 1776.14
Eligibility to receive a DWS loan.
(a) The loan recipient must be an eligible individual.
(b) The loan recipient must either own and occupy the home being improved with the proceeds of the DWS loan, or be occupying the home as the purchaser under a legally enforceable land purchase contract which is not in default by either the seller or the purchaser.
(c) The home using the water well system being funded from proceeds of the DWS loan must be located in a rural area.
(d) The water well system being funded from the proceeds of the DWS loan may not be associated with the construction of a new dwelling.
(e) The water well system being funded from the proceeds of the DWS loan may not be used to substitute for water service available from collective water
systems. Example: Loan recipient wishes to restore an old well which had been abandoned when the dwelling was connected to a water line belonging to a water district.
(f) A loan recipient must not be suspended or debarred from participation in Federal programs.
§ 1776.15
Terms of loans.
(a) DWS loans under this part—
(1) Shall have an interest rate of 1 percent;
(2) Shall have a term not to exceed 20 years; and
(3) Shall not exceed $15,000 for each water well system or decentralized wastewater system described in § 1776.1.
(b) The grant recipient must set forth the DWS loan terms in written documentation signed by the loan recipient.
(c) Grant recipients must develop and use DWS loan documentation that conforms to the terms of this part, the grant agreement, and the laws of the state or states having jurisdiction.
(d) The Agency will determine the maximum subgrant limit for each DWS applicant.
(e) The applicant will determine subgrant funding levels to individual subgrantees based on established criteria described in the workplan.
[70 FR 28788, May 19, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 68295, Nov. 18, 2008; 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1776.16
Loan servicing.
(a) If RUS determines that DWS loans may be serviced by CSC, then the grant recipient will enter into an agreement with the Centralized Servicing Center for servicing all DWS loans made from the revolving loan fund. All DWS loan payments will be received by and processed at the Centralized Servicing Center. The grant recipient will be charged a fee for this service, and such fee should be included in the projected financial statements and work plan submitted as part of the grant application. This fee may be reimbursed as an administrative expense as provided in § 1776.13.
(b) If RUS determines that CSC is not able to service DWS loans, then the grant recipient shall be responsible for servicing, or causing to be serviced, all DWS loans. Servicing will include preparing loan agreements, processing loan payments, reviewing financial statements and debt reserves balances, and other responsibilities such as enforcement of loan terms. Loan servicing will be in accordance with the work plan RUS approved when the grant was awarded. It will continue as long as any loan made in whole or in part with RUS grant funds is outstanding.
§ 1776.17
Revolving loan fund maintenance.
As long as any part of the DWS grant remains available for lending, and loans made from the revolving loan fund have an outstanding balance due, the grant recipient must maintain the revolving loan fund for the purposes set forth in § 1776.13.
(a) All DWS grant funds received by a grant recipient must be deposited into the revolving loan fund.
(b) The grant recipient may transfer additional assets into the revolving loan fund.
(c) All cash and other assets of the revolving loan fund shall be deposited in a separate bank account or accounts.
(d) No cash or other assets of any other fund maintained by the grant recipient shall be commingled with the cash and other assets of the revolving loan fund.
(e) All moneys deposited in such bank account or accounts shall be money of the revolving loan fund.
(f) Loans to loan recipients are advanced from the revolving loan fund.
(g) The revolving loan fund will consist of receivables created by making loans, the grant recipient's security interest in collateral pledged by loan recipients, collections on the receivables, interest, fees, and any other income or assets derived from the operation of the revolving loan fund.
(h) The portion of the revolving loan fund that consists of DWS grant funds, on a last-in-first-out basis, may be used for only those purposes set forth in this part.
(i) The grant recipient must submit an annual budget of proposed administrative costs for RUS approval. The amount removed from the revolving loan fund for administrative costs in
any year must be reasonable; must not exceed the actual cost of operating the revolving loan fund, including loan servicing and providing technical assistance; and must not exceed the amount approved by RUS in the grant recipient's annual budget.
(j) A reasonable amount of revolved funds must be used to create a reserve for bad debts. Reserves should be accumulated over a period of years. The total amount should not exceed maximum expected losses, considering the quality of the grant recipient's portfolio of loans. Unless the grant recipient provides loss and delinquency records that, in the opinion of RUS, justifies different amounts, a reserve for bad debts of 6 percent of outstanding loans must be accumulated over three years and then maintained as set forth in the grant agreement.
(k) Any cash in the revolving loan fund from any source that is not needed for debt service, approved administrative costs, or reasonable reserves must be available for additional loans to loan recipients.
(l) All reserves and other cash in the revolving loan fund not immediately needed for loans to loan recipients or other authorized uses must be deposited in accounts in banks or other financial institutions. Such accounts must be fully covered by Federal deposit insurance or fully collateralized with U.S. Government obligations, and must be interest bearing. Any interest earned thereon remains a part of the revolving loan fund.
Pt. 1777

# PART 1777—WATER AND WASTE FACILITY LOANS AND GRANTS TO ALLEVIATE HEALTH RISKS
Sec.
1777.1
General.
1777.2
[Reserved]
1777.3
Objective.
1777.4
Definitions.
1777.5-1777.10
[Reserved]
1777.11
Public infrastructure—Making, processing, and servicing loans and grants.
1777.12
Public infrastructure—Eligibility.
1777.13
Public infrastructure—Use of funds.
1777.14
Public infrastructure—Application processing and scoring.
1777.15
Public infrastructure—Rates and terms.
1777.16-1777.29
[Reserved]
1777.30
Individual loans and grants—Making, processing, and servicing loans and grants.
1777.31
Individual loan and grant eligibility.
1777.32
Individual loans and grants—Use of funds.
1777.33
Individual loans and grants—Administration of funds.
1777.34
Individual loans—Rates and terms.
1777.35-1777.41
[Reserved]
1777.42
Delegation of authority.
1777.43
Exception authority.
1777.44
Availability of forms and regulations.
1777.45-1777.99
[Reserved]
1777.100
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 16 U.S.C. 1005
88 FR 6611, Feb. 1, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1777.1
General.
(a) This part outlines Rural Utilities Service (RUS) policies and procedures for making Water and Waste Facility loans and grants authorized under Section 306C of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(c)), as amended.
(b) Agency officials will maintain liaison with officials of other federal, Tribal, state, regional, and local development agencies to coordinate related programs to achieve rural development objectives.
(c) Agency officials will cooperate with appropriate Tribal and state agencies in making loans and/or grants that support Tribal and state strategies for rural area development.
(d) Funds specifically appropriated for Tribal members in accordance with this part will be considered for use by Federally Recognized Tribes regardless of whether State development strategies include Tribes and their reservations. Tribal members residing on such reservations must have an equal opportunity to participate in this program.
(e) Entities eligible for a grant under the 306D Water Systems for Rural and Native Villages in Alaska Program are not eligible to receive grant assistance under this regulation from funds appropriated for Tribal members as referenced in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Federal statutes provide for extending the Agency's financial programs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital
status, age, or physical/mental handicap (provided the participant possesses the capacity to enter into legal contracts).
§ 1777.2
[Reserved]
§ 1777.3
Objective.
The objective of the Section 306C Water and Waste Facility Loans and Grants to Alleviate Health Risks program is to provide water and waste disposal facilities and services to low-income rural areas whose residents are experiencing a significant health risk due to the fact that a significant proportion of the community's residents do not have access to, or are not served by, adequate affordable water supply systems or waste disposal facilities.
§ 1777.4
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
Agency.
The Rural Utilities Service or its successors.
Applicant.
The entity that has applied for assistance under this part. The entity may be a public body such as municipality, county, district, authority or other political subdivisions of a state, an organization operated on a not-for-profit basis such as an association, cooperative or private corporation, or a Federally Recognized Tribe as defined in the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal List Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791-4792). An entity operated on a not-for-profit basis must be controlled by a local public body or bodies or have a broadly based ownership by or membership of people of the local community.
Colonia.
Any identifiable community designated in writing by a state, county or Federally Recognized Tribe in which it is located; determined to be a Colonia on the basis of objective criteria including lack of potable water supply, lack of adequate sewage systems, and lack of decent, safe, and sanitary housing, inadequate roads and drainage; and existed and was generally recognized as a Colonia before October 1, 1989. Colonia's eligible areas include the entire county where more than half of the area of the county is within 150 miles of the United States and Mexico border. The county governing body, state, or Tribal government must designate the respective communities in the county as Colonia. The individual Colonia still must meet all other qualifications. If only some of the counties within the 150-mile area are designated and a county is later designated, written evidence of Colonia designation must be placed in the respective files.
Cooperative.
A cooperative formed specifically for the purpose of the installation, expansion, improvement, or operation of water supply or waste disposal facilities or systems.
Individual.
The recipient of financial assistance for improvements to a private dwelling to facilitate the use of the water or waste disposal system.
Median household income.
The income data used in this part to determine median household income must be that which most accurately reflects the income of the service area. The median household income of the service area and the Statewide Nonmetropolitan Median Household Income will be determined by 5-year income data from the United States Department of Commerce, United States Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the census data is not an accurate representation of the median household income within the area to be served, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or the Agency may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income. Information will consist of reliable data from local, regional, State, Tribal or Federal sources, or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.
Rural areas.
Includes any city, town, or unincorporated area with a population not in excess of 10,000 inhabitants in any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, according to the most recently implemented decennial census of the United States. If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most
recently implemented decennial census, the RUS Assistant Administrator for Water and Environmental Programs will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.
Statewide Nonmetropolitan Median Household Income (SNMHI).
Median household income of a state's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population. The SNMHI is set by the RUS Water and Environmental Program. The nonmetropolitan median household income of the State may only be updated on a national basis by the RUS National Office.
Tribe.
Federally Recognized Tribes as defined in the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal List Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791-4792), as well as Tribal organizations, enterprises, authorities and utilities that are duly established pursuant to the Constitution and bylaws of such Tribe.
§§ 1777.5 through 1777.10
[Reserved]
§ 1777.11
Public infrastructure—Making, processing, and servicing loans and grants.
Unless specifically modified by this part, loans and grants will be made and processed in accordance with 7 CFR 1780, “Water and Waste Loans and Grants” and serviced in accordance with 7 CFR 1782, “Servicing of Water and Waste Programs.”
§ 1777.12
Public infrastructure—Eligibility.
(a) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section apply to applications submitted by all eligible entities except for Colonias. The facility financed under this part must provide water and/or waste disposal services to rural areas where, on the date the application is received by the Agency, the:
(1) Per capita income of the residents is not more than 70 percent of the most recently USDA implemented national average per capita income, as determined by 5-year income data from the United States Department of Commerce, United States Census Bureau, ACS or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If the RUS Assistant Administrator for Water and Environmental Program (WEP) has reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the per capita income of the residents, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or the Agency may obtain, additional information regarding such per capita income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, state, Tribal or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source, and,
(2) Unemployment rate of the residents is not less than 125 percent of the most recent national average unemployment rate, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(3) Projects for which the applicant is not a Federally Recognized Tribe, but which will benefit Tribal members, may be considered eligible for funds under this part if the applicant provides acceptable documentation and certifies that more than 50 percent of the users in the project service area are members of Tribes. In such cases, funds awarded under this part cannot exceed the applicable percentage of the total eligible project cost. If the applicant is not a Tribe, the applicant must solicit a resolution or letter of consent in support of the application from the benefiting Tribe.
(b) Residents of the rural area to be served must be experiencing a significant health risk due to the fact that a significant proportion of the community's residents do not have access to, or are not served by, adequate, affordable, water supply systems and/or waste disposal facilities. The Agency's records must clearly document and support this determination. The following requirements regarding the documentation must be followed:
(1) The originating documentation must come from an independent third-party source that has the experience in specifying the health or sanitary problem that currently exists.
(2) The documentation must state specifically the health or sanitary problems that exist. General statements of problems or support for the project are not acceptable.
(3) Current users of the facility, and not future or possible users, must be
experiencing the current health or sanitary problem.
(4) If no facility exists, documentation must include specific health and sanitary problems associated with individual facilities that currently exist to warrant the health and sanitary determination.
(5) In instances where eligible applicants are proposing to finance water or waste disposal infrastructure improvements addressing health and sanitary problems and that will help alleviate overcrowding or lack of housing, the applicant must provide adequate plans that reasonably demonstrate that the new housing development will be fully financed and will be completed once the infrastructure is completed.
§ 1777.13
Public infrastructure—Use of funds.
(a) Funds may be used to:
(1) Develop, construct, repair, replace and/or enlarge new and/or existing wells, reservoirs, transmission lines, treatment plants, and/or other sources of potable water.
(2) Construct, extend, repair, replace and/or enlarge new and/or existing waterlines and other necessary system components.
(3) Develop, construct, repair, replace and/or enlarge new and/or existing waste disposal, treatment, and other associated facilities.
(4) Construct, extend, repair, replace and/or enlarge new and/or existing collection lines and/or other necessary system components.
(5) Any other cost associated with resolving a significant health risk by granting the community access to an adequate affordable water supply system and/or waste disposal facility.
(b) Grants can be made up to 100 percent of eligible project costs.
§ 1777.14
Public infrastructure—Application processing and scoring.
(a)
General.
RUS may retain funds at the National Office or may allocate funds to Rural Development (RD) State Offices. Funds allocated to RD State Offices that remain unobligated may be pooled at the National Office's discretion and made available to any RD State Offices with eligible applications on a case-by-case basis. The application and supporting information submitted with it will be used to determine applicant eligibility and scoring for available funds. Applicants that do not receive an award will be advised of their appeal rights in accordance with 7 CFR part 11. Paragraph (c) of this section indicates items and conditions which will be considered in selecting applications for funding. When ranking eligible applications for consideration of limited funds, Agency officials will consider the scoring criteria met by each application and the degree to which those criteria are met.
(b)
Agency review.
Applications should be submitted in accordance with 7 CFR 1780. For funds retained at RUS National Office, applications will be processed, scored, and reviewed for funding priority by the processing office and then submitted for consideration to the RUS National Office. It is preferred that applications be submitted electronically through RD Apply or its successor platforms. Where electronic application is not feasible, an application can be submitted physically to the local processing office. Information relating to the local processing office may be found at
www.rd.usda.gov.
For funds allocated to RD state offices, the respective office will process, score, and fund projects with the available allocation. Projects that cannot be fully funded within the allocation will be considered in accordance with funds retained at the RUS National Office on a project-by-project basis. The Agency reserves the right to make no award if: no funding is received, or all applications are ineligible, incomplete, or do not meet the established program objectives and priorities. The Agency may determine that the application is:
(1) Eligible and selected for funding,
(2) Eligible but offered less funds than requested,
(3) Eligible but not selected for funding due to ranking of all applications by score, or
(4) Ineligible for funding.
(c)
Scoring.
The criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section will be used to rank applications and in selecting projects for funding.
(1)
Population.
The proposed project will primarily serve a rural area having a population:
(i) Not in excess of 1,000—25 points.
(ii) Between 1,001 and 2,500—15 points.
(iii) Between 2,501 and 5,500—5 points.
(2)
Income.
The median household income of population to be served by the proposed project is:
(i) Not in excess of 50 percent of the SNMHI—30 points.
(ii) More than 50 percent and not in excess of 60 percent of the SNMHI income—20 points.
(iii) More than 60 percent and not in excess of 70 percent of the SNMHI—15 points.
(3)
Joint financing.
The amount of funds, other than RUS funds, committed to the proposed project is:
(i) Fifty percent or more—15 points.
(ii) Twenty to forty-nine percent—10 points.
(iii) Five to nineteen percent—5 points.
(4)
Colonia.
(See definition in § 1777.4). The proposed project will provide water or waste disposal services to the residents of a recognized Colonia—25 points.
(5)
Access and health risks.
(i) A service area that lacks access to both water and waste disposal facilities, resulting in a significant health risk—50 points.
(ii) A service area that lacks access to either water or waste disposal facilities, resulting in a significant health risk—40 points.
(iii) A service area that has access to water and waste disposal facilities but has a significant health risk—20 points.
(6)
Discretionary.
(i) State Director or designee with loan and grant approval authority in certain cases, and when a written justification is prepared, may assign up to 15 points for administrative and programmatic priorities for items including, but not limited to, natural disasters, priority coordination between RUS and other agencies, including leveraged funding or other initiatives identified by the administration, to assist those projects that are the most cost effective, or to projects located in areas experiencing high unemployment and poverty rates and severe health risks.
(ii) RUS Administrator may assign up to 15 additional points that will be considered in the total points for items including, but not limited to, the geographic distribution of funds nationally and within the state, and the severity of health risks.
§ 1777.15
Public infrastructure—Rates and terms.
Public infrastructure loans will bear interest at not more than the maximum rate of 5 percent per annum. The rates and terms will be in accordance with 7 CFR 1780 Water and Waste Loans and Grants.
§§ 1777.16 through 1777.29
[Reserved]
§ 1777.30
Individual loans and grants—Making, processing, and servicing loans and grants.
Funding appropriated, designated, or otherwise approved to be delivered in accordance with the individual provisions of this part may be awarded directly to the individual(s) by this Agency or another designated Agency, such as United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Housing Service (RHS), or to the public water supply system and/or waste disposal facility for administration, including Tribes and Tribal organizations. When loan or grant funding is transferred to RHS, funding will be administered in accordance with subpart C of 7 CFR 3550 and other applicable provisions.
§ 1777.31
Individual loan and grant eligibility.
(a) When loan awards are made by RUS to individuals, the individuals must meet the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section:
(1) Must demonstrate adequate ability to repay the loan;
(2) Have an ownership interest in the dwelling to be improved or connected to the system, and the dwelling must be located in an eligible, rural area;
(3) At the time of loan approval, the household's 12-month adjusted income must not be more than the statewide nonmetro median household income for the state or territory in which the individual resides, according to the most
recent decennial census. Adjusted income is used to determine program eligibility and the amount of payment subsidy for which the household qualifies. Adjusted income is annual income less any of the following deductions for which the household is eligible:
(i) For each household member, except the head of household or spouse, who is under 18 years of age, 18 years of age or older with a disability, or a full-time student, the amount determined pursuant to section 501(b)(5) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended.
(ii) A deduction of reasonable expenses for the care of minor 12 years of age or under that:
(A) Enable a family member to work or to further a member's education;
(B) Are not reimbursed or paid by another source; and
(C) In the case of expenses to enable a family member to work do not exceed the amount of income earned by the family member enabled to work.
(iii) Expenses related to the care of household members with disabilities that:
(A) Enable a family member to work;
(B) Are not reimbursed from insurance or another source; and
(C) Are in excess of three percent of the household's annual income.
(iv) For any elderly family, a deduction in the amount determined pursuant to section 501(b)(5) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended.
(v) For elderly households only, a deduction for household medical expenses that are not reimbursed from insurance or another source and which in combination with any expenses related to the care of household members with disabilities described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, are in excess of three percent of the household's annual income;
(4) Must not be delinquent on any Federal debt; and,
(5) Are unable to pay for the costs of improvements without the loan.
(b) Grants may be made to individuals who meet all applicable requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Have an ownership interest in the dwelling to be connected to the system or improved and located in an eligible, rural area;
(2) At the time of grant approval, meet the income requirements established within item (a)(3) of this part;
(3) Must not be delinquent on any Federal debt; and
(4) Are unable to pay for the costs of improvements without a grant.
§ 1777.32
Individual loans and grants—Use of funds.
(a) Prior to awarding funds to a public water supply and/or waste disposal system, the approval official must determine that this is a practical and economical method of connecting individuals to the community water and/or waste disposal system. Funds awarded pursuant to this section can only be used for loans to individuals, and awarded grant funds can only be used for grants to individuals.
(b) Funds may be used to:
(1) Extend service lines to residence.
(2) Connect service lines to residence's plumbing.
(3) Pay reasonable charges or fees for connecting to a community water and/or waste disposal system.
(4) Pay for necessary installation of plumbing and related fixtures within dwellings lacking such facilities.
(5) Construction and/or partitioning off a portion of dwelling for a bathroom only if such bathroom is modest in design and size as determined by the Agency.
(6) Pay reasonable costs for closing abandoned septic tanks and water wells when necessary to protect the health and safety of recipients of a grant in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section and is required by Tribal, local or applicable law.
§ 1777.33
Individual loans and grants—Administration of funds.
(a)
General.
For applications submitted by water or waste disposal systems or other eligible entities to benefit individuals, the amount of loan and grant funds approved by the Agency will be based on the need documented in the executed loan and grant documents between the Agency and the entity. The loan and grant documents include but are not limited to items such as the purpose, how funds will be used, proposed application process for individuals, construction requirements,
and the control and disbursement of funds. Construction requirements must meet applicable building codes, statutes and regulations.
(b)
Review.
The loan and grant documents executed between RUS and the entity will set forth the procedures and regulations for making and servicing loans and grants made by the water or waste disposal systems, or other eligible entity, to individuals. The entity is responsible for:
(1) Understanding all provisions of the loan and grant documents; and
(2) Servicing loans and grants in the manner outlined in the executed loan and grant documents.
(c)
Scoring.
For applications submitted by water or waste disposal systems or other eligible entities to benefit individuals, the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section will be used to rank applications and in selecting projects for funding.
(1)
Lending experience.
Degree of expertise and successful experience in making and servicing loans to individuals. Up to 15 points.
(2)
Operational experience.
Degree of expertise and experience in operating and maintaining water or waste disposal system. Up to 15 points.
(3)
Work plan.
Extent to which the work plan demonstrates a well thought out, comprehensive approach to accomplishing the objectives of this part, clearly defines who will be served by the project, and appears likely to be sustainable. Up to 15 points.
(4)
Population.
The system after the proposed project will primarily serve a rural area having a population:
(i) Not in excess of 1,000—25 points.
(ii) Between 1,001 and 2,500—15 points.
(iii) Between 2,501 and 5,500—5 points.
(5)
Income.
The median household income of population to be served by the proposed project is:
(i) Not in excess of 50 percent of the SNMHI—30 points.
(ii) More than 50 percent and not in excess of 60 percent of the SNMHI income—20 points.
(iii) More than 60 percent and not in excess of 70 percent of the SNMHI—15 points.
(6)
Joint financing.
The amount of funds, other than RUS funds, committed to the proposed project is:
(i) Fifty percent or more—15 points.
(ii) Twenty to forty-nine percent—10 points.
(iii) Five to nineteen percent—5 points.
(7)
Colonia.
(See definition in § 1777.4). The proposed project will provide water or waste disposal services to the residents of a recognized Colonia—25 points.
(8)
Access and health risks.
(i) A service area that lacks access to both water and waste disposal facilities, resulting in a significant health risk—50 points.
(ii) A service area that lacks access to either water or waste disposal facilities, resulting in a significant health risk—40 points.
(iii) A service area that has access to water and waste disposal facilities but has a significant health risk—20 points.
(9)
Discretionary.
(i) State Director or designee with loan and grant approval authority in certain cases, and when a written justification is prepared, may assign up to 15 points for administrative and programmatic priorities for items including, but not limited to, natural disasters, funding or priority coordination between RUS and other agencies, including leveraged funding, for award to applicants under this program, to assist those projects that are the most cost effective, or to projects located in areas experiencing high unemployment and poverty rates and severe health risks.
(ii) RUS Administrator may assign up to 15 additional points that will be considered in the total points for items including, but not limited to, the geographic distribution of funds nationally and within the state, and the severity of health risks. Any funds transferred to RHS for individual assistance will be administered following the provisions established in their governing statutes, regulations or policy. However, funds cannot be used to make improvements to the residence, except for the improvements authorized by § 1777.32. Funds cannot be used to pay individuals for their own labor. RUS transferred funds to RHS that remain after providing individual loans and grants will be returned to RUS or its successors.
§ 1777.34
Individual loans—Rates and terms.
Individual loans will bear interest at not more than the maximum of 5 percent per annum, or the Federal Financing Bank or other Agency designated source, on loans of a similar term at the time such loans are made. The term will not exceed the estimated useful life of the eligible improvements financed or as determined by tribal or state law or statute, whichever is less.
§§ 1777.35 through 1777.41
[Reserved]
§ 1777.42
Delegation of authority.
The Administrator may delegate approval authority under this section, to the Assistant Administrator, WEP in accordance with 7 CFR 1780.
§ 1777.43
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law and is determined to be in the Government's interest.
§ 1777.44
Availability of forms and regulations.
Information on forms and regulations are available online from the Agency website.
§§ 1777.45 through 1777.99
[Reserved]
§ 1777.100
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned OMB control number 0572-0121.
Pt. 1778

# PART 1778—EMERGENCY AND IMMINENT COMMUNITY WATER ASSISTANCE GRANTS
Sec.
1778.1
General.
1778.2
[Reserved]
1778.3
Purpose.
1778.4
Definitions.
1778.5
[Reserved]
1778.6
Eligibility.
1778.7
Project priority.
1778.8
[Reserved]
1778.9
Uses.
1778.10
Restrictions on use of grant funds.
1778.11
Maximum grants.
1778.12
[Reserved]
1778.13
Set-aside.
1778.14
Other considerations.
1778.15-1778.20
[Reserved]
1778.21
Application processing.
1778.22
Planning development and procurement.
1778.23
Grant closing and disbursement of funds.
1778.24-1778.30
[Reserved]
1778.31
Performing development.
1778.32-1778.33
[Reserved]
1778.34
Grant servicing.
1778.35
Subsequent grants.
1778.36
[Reserved]
1778.37
Forms, Instructions and Bulletins.
1778.38-1778.99
[Reserved]
1778.100
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 16 U.S.C. 1005.

# Source:
68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1778.1
General.
(a) This part outlines policies and procedures for making Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants (ECWAG) authorized under Section 306A of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)), as amended. Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this part involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this title. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with an Agency employee.
(b) Agency officials will maintain liaison with officials of other Federal, State, regional and local development agencies to coordinate related programs to achieve rural development objectives.
(c) Agency officials shall cooperate with appropriate State agencies in making grants that support State strategies for rural area development.
(d) Funds allocated for use in accordance with this part are also to be considered for use by Indian tribes within the State regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. Indians residing on such reservations must have an equal opportunity
along with other rural residents to participate in the benefits of this program. This includes equal application of outreach activities of Field Offices.
(e) Federal statutes provide for extending the Agency financial programs without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, age, or physical/mental handicap (provided the participant possesses the capacity to enter into legal contracts).
§ 1778.2
[Reserved]
§ 1778.3
Purpose.
The objective of the ECWAG Program is to assist the residents of rural areas that have experienced a significant decline in quantity or quality of water, or in which such a decline is considered imminent, to obtain or maintain adequate quantities of water that meets the standards set by the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
) (SDWA).
§ 1778.4
Definitions.
Acute shortage.
An acute shortage is a situation in which the system either cannot deliver water at all through its distribution system or can only deliver water on a sporadic basis.
Contamination,
Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance of matter in water, either exceeding or having potential to exceed State or Federal standards.
Emergency.
Occurrence of an incident such as, but not limited to, a drought; earthquake; flood; tornado; hurricane; disease outbreak; or chemical spill, leakage, or seepage.
Rural areas.
Includes any area not in a city or town with a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants located in any of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Western Pacific Territories, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Republic of Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.
Significant decline in quality.
A significant decline in quality of potable water occurs when the present community source or delivery system does not meet, as a result of an emergency, the current SDWA requirements. For a private source or delivery system a significant decline in quality occurs when the water is no longer potable as a result of an emergency. As used in this Subpart, the term significant decline in quality may also include a situation where a significant decline is likely to occur within one year from the date of the filing of an application.
Significant decline in quantity.
A significant decline in the quantity is caused by a disruption of the potable water supply by an emergency. The disruption in quantity of water prevents the present source or delivery system from supplying potable water needs to rural residents. This would not include a decline in excess water capacity. As used in this Subpart, the term significant decline in quantity may also include a situation where a significant decline is likely to occur within one year from the date of the filing of an application.
Statewide Nonmetropolitan Median Household Income (SNMHI).
Median household income of the State's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 65519, Nov. 15, 2004; 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015; 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020; 87 FR 38643, June 29, 2022]
§ 1778.5
[Reserved]
§ 1778.6
Eligibility.
(a) Grants may be made to public bodies and private nonprofit corporations serving rural areas. Public bodies include counties, cities, townships, incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, and other political subdivisions of a State. Public bodies also include Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally recognized Indian Tribal groups in rural areas.
(b) Any entities responsible for willfully or purposely fouling a drinking water supply are not eligible to be the recipients of an award under this program.
(c) In the case of grants made to alleviate a significant decline in quantity or quality of water available from the water supplies of rural residents, the applicant must demonstrate that the decline occurred within two years of the date the application was filed with the Agency. This would not apply to grants made for repairs, partial replacement, or significant maintenance on an established water system. In situations involving imminent decline, evidence must be presented to demonstrate that the decline is likely to occur within one year of the date the application is filed with the Agency.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1778.7
Project priority.
Paragraph (d) of this section indicates items and conditions which must be considered in selecting applications for further development. When ranking eligible applications for consideration for limited funds, Agency officials must consider the priority items met by each application and the degree to which those priorities are met.
(a)
Applications.
The application and supporting information submitted with it will be used to determine the proposed project's priority for available funds.
(b)
State Office review.
All applications will be reviewed and scored for funding priority using RUS Bulletin 1778-1. Eligible applicants that cannot be funded should be advised that funds are not available.
(c)
National Office review.
Each year all funding requests will be reviewed by the National Office beginning 30 days after funds from the annual appropriation are made available to the Agency. Reviews will continue throughout the fiscal year as long as funds are available. Projects selected for funding will be considered based on the priority criteria and available funds. Projects must compete on a national basis for available funds, and the National Office will allocate funds to State offices on a project by project basis.
(d)
Selection priorities.
The priorities described below will be used by the State Program Official to rate applications and by the Assistant Administrator of Water and Environmental Programs to select projects for funding. Points will be distributed as indicated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section and will be considered in selecting projects for funding. A copy of RUS Bulletins 1778-1 and 1778-2 used to rate applications, should be placed in the case file for future reference.
(1)
Population.
The proposed project will serve an area with a rural population:
(i) Not in excess of 1,500—30 points.
(ii) More than 1,500 and not in excess of 3,000—20 points.
(iii) More than 3,000 and not in excess of 5,000—15 points.
(iv) Over 5,000—0 points.
(2)
Income.
The median household income of population to be served by the proposed project is:
(i) Not in excess of 70% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income—30 points.
(ii) More than 70% and not in excess of 80% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income—20 points.
(iii) More than 80% and not in excess of 90% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income—10 points.
(iv) Over 90% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income—0 points.
(3)
Significant decline.
Points will be assigned for only one of the following paragraphs when the primary purpose of the proposed project is to correct a significant decline that has occurred in the:
(i) Quantity of water available from private individually owned wells or other individual sources of water—30 points; or
(ii) Quantity of water available from an established system's source of water—20 points; or
(iii) Quality of water available from private individually owned wells or other individual sources of water—30 points; or
(iv) Quality of water available from an established system's source of water—20 points.
(4)
Imminent decline.
The proposed project will attempt to avert an imminent decline expected to occur during the one-year period following the filing of an application—10 points.
(
Note:
If points were assigned above for a significant decline, no points will be awarded for imminent decline.)
(5)
Acute shortage.
Grants made in accordance with § 1778.11(b) of this part to assist an established water system remedy an acute shortage of quality water or correct a significant decline in the quantity or quality of water that is available—10 points.
(6)
Contamination.
The project will address the contamination that poses a threat to human health or the environment and was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the applicant—10 points.
(7)
Discretionary.
In certain cases the Administrator may assign up to 30 points for items such as geographic distribution of funds, rural residents hauling water, severe contamination levels, etc.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1778.8
[Reserved]
§ 1778.9
Uses.
Grant funds may be used for the following purposes:
(a) Waterline extensions from existing systems.
(b) Construction of new waterlines.
(c) Repairs to an existing system.
(d) Significant maintenance to an existing system.
(e) Construction of new wells, reservoirs, transmission lines, treatment plants, and other sources of water.
(f) Equipment replacement.
(g) Connection and/or tap fees.
(h) Pay costs that were incurred within six months of the date an application was filed with the Agency to correct an emergency situation that would have been eligible for funding under this part.
(i) Any other appropriate purpose such as legal fees, engineering fees, recording costs, environmental impact analyses, archaeological surveys, possible salvage or other mitigation measures, planning, establishing or acquiring rights associated with developing sources of, treating, storing, or distributing water.
(j) Assist rural water systems to comply with the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
) (FWPCA) or the SDWA when such failure to comply is directly related to a recent decline in quality of potable water. This would not apply to changes in the requirements of FWPCA or SDWA.
(k) Provide potable water to communities through means other than those covered above for no more than 120 days when a more permanent solution is not feasible in a shorter time frame. Where drinking water supplies are inadequate due to an event, including drought, severe weather, or contamination, potable water may be provided for a period of time, not to exceed an additional 120 days to protect public health.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1778.10
Restrictions on use of grant funds.
(a) Grant funds may not be used to:
(1) Assist any city or town with a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants. The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census. If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data. Facilities financed by RUS may be located in non-rural areas. However, loan and grant funds may be used to finance only that portion of the facility serving rural areas, regardless of facility location.
(2) Assist a rural area that has a median household income in excess of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income as determined by 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income of the rural area, the reasons
will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.
(3) Finance facilities which are not modest in size, design, cost, and are not directly related to correcting the potable water quantity or quality problem.
(4) Pay loan or grant finder's fees.
(5) Pay any annual recurring costs that are considered to be operational expenses.
(6) Pay rental for the use of equipment or machinery owned by the rural community.
(7) Purchase existing systems.
(8) Refinance existing indebtedness, except for short-term debt incurred in accordance with § 1778.9(h).
(9) Make reimbursement for projects developed with other grant funds.
(10) Finance facilities that are not for public use.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall preclude rural areas from submitting joint proposals for assistance under this part. Each entity applying for financial assistance under this part to fund their share of a joint project will be considered individually.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1778.11
Maximum grants.
(a) Grants up to $1,000,000 may be made to alleviate a significant decline in quantity or quality of water available to a rural area that occurred within two years of filing an application with the Agency, or to attempt to avoid a significant decline that is expected to occur during the twelve month period following the filing of an application.
(b) Grants made for repairs, partial replacement, or significant maintenance on an established system to remedy an acute shortage or significant decline in the quality or quantity of potable water, or an anticipated acute shortage or significant decline, cannot exceed $150,000.
(c) Grants under this part, subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, shall be made for 100 percent of eligible project costs.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 23211, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1778.12
[Reserved]
§ 1778.13
Set-aside.
(a) At least 70 percent of all grants made under this grant program shall be for projects funded in accordance with § 1778.11(a).
(b) At least 50 percent of the funds appropriated for this grant program shall be allocated to rural areas with populations not in excess of 3,000 inhabitants according to the most recent decennical Census.
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1778.14
Other considerations.
(a)
Civil rights compliance requirements.
All grants made under this part are subject to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
) as outlined in subpart E of part 1901 of this title.
(b)
Environmental requirements.
All projects must have appropriate environmental reviews in accordance with RUS requirements.
(c)
Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).
All projects must comply with the requirements set forth in 7 CFR part 21.
(d)
Flood and mudslide hazard area precautions.
If the project is located in a flood or mudslide area, then flood or mudslide insurance must be provided as required in subpart A of part 1806 of this title (RD Instruction 426.2).
(e)
Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement).
All projects must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementing Executive Order 12549 on debarment and suspension.
(f)
Intergovernmental review.
All projects funded under this part are subject to Executive Order 12372 (3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 197), which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. These requirements are found at 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, “Intergovernmental Review of
Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities” and RD Instruction 1970-I, `Intergovernmental Review,' available in any Agency office or on the Agency's Web site.
(g)
Uniform administrative requirements.
All projects funded under this part are subject to 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Requirements.
(h)
Restrictions on lobbying.
All projects funded under this part are subject to 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
(i)
Requirements for drug-free workplace.
This program is subject to 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
[68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 80730, Dec. 27, 2011; 79 FR 76006, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 7697, Feb. 16, 2016]
§§ 1778.15-1778.20
[Reserved]
§ 1778.21
Application processing.
(a) The material submitted with the application should include the Preliminary Engineering Report, population and median household income of the area to be served, description of project, and nature of emergency that caused the problem(s) being addressed by the project. The documentation must clearly show that the applicant has had a significant decline in the quantity or quality of potable water or an acute shortage of potable water, or that such a decline or shortage is imminent, and that the proposed project will eliminate or alleviate the problem. For projects to be funded in accordance with § 1778.11 (a), evidence must be furnished that a significant decline in quantity or quality occurred within two years before filing the application with the Agency, or is expected to occur within one year after filing the application.
(b) When favorable action will not be taken on an application, the applicant will be notified in writing by the State Program Official of the reasons why the request was not favorably considered. Notification to the applicant will state that a review of this decision by the Agency may be requested by the applicant in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 1778.22
Planning development and procurement.
Planning development and procurement for grants made under this part will be in accordance with subpart C of Part 1780 of this chapter. A certification should be obtained from the State agency or the Environmental Protection Agency if the State does not have primacy, stating that the proposed improvements will be in compliance with requirements of the SDWA.
§ 1778.23
Grant closing and disbursement of funds.
(a) Grants will be closed in accordance with § 1780.45 of part 1780 of this chapter.
(b) RUS Bulletin 1780-12, “Water or Waste Grant Agreement,” will be executed by all applicants.
(c) The Agency's policy is not to disburse grant funds from the Treasury until they are actually needed by the applicant. Grant funds will be disbursed by using multiple advances.
§§ 1778.24-1778.30
[Reserved]
§ 1778.31
Performing development.
(a) Applicable provisions of subpart C of part 1780 of this chapter will be followed in performing development for grants made under this part.
(b) After filing an application in accordance with § 1778.21 and when immediate action is necessary, the State Program Official may concur in an applicant's request to proceed with construction before funds are obligated provided the RUS environmental requirements are complied with. The applicant must be advised in writing that:
(1) Any authorization to proceed or any concurrence in bid awards, contract concurrence, or other project development activity, is not a commitment by the Agency to provide grant funds under this part.
(2) The Agency is not liable for any debt incurred by the applicant in the event that funds are not provided under this part.
§§ 1778.32-1778.33
[Reserved]
§ 1778.34
Grant servicing.
(a) Grants will be serviced in accordance with § 1951.215 of subpart E of part 1951 of this title and subpart O of part 1951 of this title.
(b) The grantee will provide an audit report in accordance with § 1780.47 of part 1780 of this chapter.
§ 1778.35
Subsequent grants.
Subsequent grants will be processed in accordance with the requirements set forth in this part. The initial and subsequent grants made to complete a previously approved project must comply with the maximum grant requirements set forth in § 1778.11.
§ 1778.36
[Reserved]
§ 1778.37
Forms, Instructions and Bulletins.
Bulletins, instructions and forms referenced are for use in administering grants made under this part and are available from any USDA/Rural Development office or the Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500.
§§ 1778.38-1778.99
[Reserved]
§ 1778.100
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned OMB control number 0572-0110.
PART 1779 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1780

# PART 1780—WATER AND WASTE LOANS AND GRANTS

# Subpart A—General Policies and Requirements
Sec.
1780.1
General.
1780.2
Purpose.
1780.3
Definitions and grammatical rules of construction.
1780.4
Availability of forms and regulations.
1780.5
[Reserved]
1780.6
Application information.
1780.7
Eligibility.
1780.8
[Reserved]
1780.9
Eligible loan and grant purposes.
1780.10
Limitations.
1780.11
Service area requirements.
1780.12
[Reserved]
1780.13
Rates and terms.
1780.14
Security.
1780.15
Other Federal, State, and local requirements.
1780.16
[Reserved]
1780.17
Selection priorities and process.
1780.18
Allocation of program funds.
1780.19
Public information.
1780.20-1780.23
[Reserved]
1780.24
Approval authorities.
1780.25
Exception authority.
1780.26-1780.30
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Loan and Grant Application Processing
1780.31
General.
1780.32
Timeframes for application processing.
1780.33
Application requirements.
1780.34
Strategic economic and community development.
1780.35
Processing office review.
1780.36
Approving official review.
1780.37
Applications determined ineligible.
1780.38
[Reserved]
1780.39
Application processing.
1780.40
[Reserved]
1780.41
Loan or grant approval.
1780.42
Transfer of obligations.
1780.43
[Reserved]
1780.44
Actions prior to loan or grant closing or start of construction, whichever occurs first.
1780.45
Loan and grant closing and delivery of funds.
1780.46
[Reserved]
1780.47
Borrower accounting methods, management reporting and audits.
1780.48
Regional commission grants.
1780.49-1780.52
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Planning, Designing, Bidding, Contracting, Constructing and Inspections
1780.53
General.
1780.54
Technical services.
1780.55
Preliminary engineering reports and environmental review documentation.
1780.56
[Reserved]
1780.57
Design policies.
1780.58-1780.60
[Reserved]
1780.61
Construction contracts.
1780.62
Utility purchase contracts.
1780.63
Sewage treatment and bulk water sales contracts.
1780.64-1780.66
[Reserved]
1780.67
Performing construction.
1780.68
Owner's contractual responsibility.
1780.69
[Reserved]
1780.70
Owner's procurement regulations.
1780.71
[Reserved]
1780.72
Procurement methods.
1780.73
[Reserved]
1780.74
Contracts awarded prior to applications.
1780.75
Contract provisions.
1780.76
Contract administration.
1780.77-1780.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Information Pertaining to Preparation of Notes or Bonds and Bond Transcript Documents for Public Body Applicants
1780.80
General.
1780.81
Policies related to use of bond counsel.
1780.82
[Reserved]
1780.83
Bond transcript documents.
1780.84-1780.86
[Reserved]
1780.87
Permanent instruments for Agency loans.
1780.88
[Reserved]
1780.89
Multiple advances of Agency funds using permanent instruments.
1780.90
Multiple advances of Agency funds using temporary debt instruments.
1780.91-1780.93
[Reserved]
1780.94
Minimum bond specifications.
1780.95
Public bidding on bonds.
1780.96-1780.100
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 16 U.S.C. 1005.

# Source:
62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Policies and Requirements
§ 1780.1
General.
(a) This part outlines the policies and procedures for making and processing direct loans and grants for water and waste projects. The Rural Utilities Service (RUS) shall cooperate fully with State and local agencies in making loans and grants to assure maximum support to the State strategy for rural development. Agency officials and their staffs shall maintain coordination and liaison with State agency and substate planning districts.
(b) The income data used in this part to determine median household income must be that which most accurately reflects the income of the service area. The median household income of the service area and the nonmetropolitan median household income of the State will be determined from income data from 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income within the area to be served, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source. The nonmetropolitan median household income of the State may only be updated on a national basis by the RUS National Office. This will be done only when median household income data for the same year for all Bureau of the Census areas is available from the Bureau of the Census or other reliable sources. Bureau of the Census areas would include areas such as: Counties, County Subdivisions, Cities, Towns, Townships, Boroughs, and other places.
(c) RUS debt instruments will require an agreement that if at any time it shall appear to the Government that the borrower is able to refinance the amount of the indebtedness to the Government then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and periods of time, the borrower will, upon request of the Government, apply for and accept such loan in sufficient amount to repay the Government and will take all such actions as may be required in connection with such loan.
(d) Funds allocated for use under this part are also for the use of Indian tribes within the State, regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. Native Americans residing on such reservations must have equal opportunity to participate in the benefits of these programs as compared with other residents of the State. Such tribes might not be subject to State and local laws or jurisdiction. However, any requirements of this part that affect applicant eligibility, the adequacy of RUS's security, or the adequacy of service to users of the facility and all other requirements of this part must be met.
(e) RUS financial programs must be extended without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, age, or physical or mental handicap.
(f) Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this part involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this title. Applicants for assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with a RUS employee.
(g) Water and waste facilities will be designed, installed, and operated in accordance with applicable laws which include but are not limited to the Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
(h) RUS financed facilities will be consistent with any current development plans of State, multijurisdictional areas, counties, or municipalities in which the proposed project is located.
(i) Each RUS financed facility will be in compliance with appropriate State or Federal agency regulations which have control of the appropriation, diversion, storage and use of water and disposal of excess water.
(j) Water and waste applicants must demonstrate that they possess the financial, technical, and managerial capability necessary to consistently comply with pertinent Federal and State laws and requirements. In developing water and waste systems, applicants must consider alternatives of ownership, system design, and the sharing of services.
(k) Applicants should be aware of and comply with other Federal statute requirements including but not limited to:
(1)
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
Under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794
et seq.
), no handicapped individual in the United States shall, solely by reason of their handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving RUS financial assistance;
(2)
Civil Rights Act of 1964.
All borrowers are subject to, and facilities must be operated in accordance with, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
) and subpart E of part 1901 of this title, particularly as it relates to conducting and reporting of compliance reviews. Instruments of conveyance for loans and/or grants subject to the Act must contain the covenant required by § 1901.202(e) of this title;
(3)
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990.
This Act (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
) prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in employment, State and local government services, public transportation, public accommodations, facilities, and telecommunications. Title II of the Act applies to facilities operated by State and local public entities which provides services, programs and activities. Title III of the Act applies to facilities owned, leased, or operated by private entities which accommodate the public; and
(4)
Age Discrimination Act of 1975.
This Act (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
) provides that no person in the United States shall on the basis of age, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(l) Applicants for grant assistance will be required to comply with the following requirements as applicable:
(1) 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, ” Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards”.
(2) 2 CFR part 415—General Program Administrative Regulations.
(3) 2 CFR part 421-Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
(m) Applicants for loan or grant assistance will be required to comply with the following requirements as applicable:
(1) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, “Audit Requirements.”
(2) 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementation of Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689 on debarment and suspension.
(3) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 76006, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015; 81 FR 7697, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 1780.2
Purpose.
Provide loan and grant funds for water and waste projects serving the most financially needy communities. Financial assistance should result in reasonable user costs for rural residents, rural businesses, and other rural users.
§ 1780.3
Definitions and grammatical rules of construction.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Agency
means the Rural Utilities Service and any United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) employee acting on behalf of the Rural Utilities Service in accordance with appropriate delegations of authority.
Agency identified target areas
means an identified area in the State strategic plan or other plans developed by the Rural Development State Director.
Approval official
means the USDA official at the State level who has been delegated the authority to approve loans or grants.
Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)
means the level of service provided to a typical rural residential dwelling.
Parity bonds
means bonds which have equal standing with other bonds of the same Issuer.
Poverty line
means the level of income for a family of four, as defined in section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)).
Processing office
means the office designated by the State program official to accept and process applications for water and waste disposal assistance.
Project
means all activity that an applicant is currently undertaking to be financed in whole or part with RUS assistance.
Protective advances
are payments made by a lender for items such as insurance or taxes in order to preserve and protect the security or the lien or priority of the lien securing the loan.
Rural and rural areas
mean any area not in a city or town with a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data.
Rural Development
means the mission area of the Under Secretary for Rural Development. Rural Development State and local offices will administer this water and waste program on behalf of the Rural Utilities Service.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to section 232 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to the Farmer's Home Administration and the Rural Development Administration with respect to certain water and waste disposal loan and grant programs.
Service area
means the area reasonably expected to be served by the project.
Servicing office
means the office designated by the State program official to service water and waste disposal loans and grants.
Similar system cost
means the average annual EDU user cost of a system within a community having similar economic conditions and being served by the same type of established system. Similar system cost shall include all charges, taxes, and assessments attributable to the system including debt service, reserves and operation and maintenance costs.
Simplified acquisition threshold
means the dollar amount below which an applicant or owner may purchase property or services using small purchase methods as defined further at 2 CFR 200.1.
State program official
means the USDA official at the State level who has been delegated the responsibility of
administering the water and waste disposal programs under this regulation for a particular State or States.
Statewide nonmetropolitan median household income
means the median household income of the State's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population.
(b)
Rules of grammatical construction.
Unless the context otherwise indicates, “includes” and “including” are not limiting, and “or” is not exclusive. The terms defined in paragraph (a) of this section include the plural as well as the singular, and the singular as well as the plural.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 65519, Nov. 15, 2004; 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015; 81 FR 7697, Feb. 16, 2016; 85 FR 72913, Nov. 16, 2020; 87 FR 38643, June 29, 2022]
§ 1780.4
Availability of forms and regulations.
Information about the availability of forms, instructions, regulations, bulletins, OMB Circulars, Treasury Circulars, standards, documents and publications cited in this part is available from any USDA/Rural Development office or the Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500.
§ 1780.5
[Reserved]
§ 1780.6
Application information.
(a) The Rural Development State Director in each State will determine the office and staff that will be responsible for delivery of the program (processing office) and designate an approving office. Applications will be accepted by the processing office.
(b) The applicant's governing body should designate one person to act as contact person with the Agency during loan and grant processing. Agency personnel should make every effort to involve the applicant's contact person when meeting with the applicant's professional consultants or agents.
§ 1780.7
Eligibility.
Facilities financed by water and waste disposal loans or grants must serve rural areas.
(a)
Eligible applicant.
An applicant must be:
(1) A public body, such as a municipality, county, district, authority, or other political subdivision of a state, territory or commonwealth;
(2) An organization operated on a not-for-profit basis, such as an association, cooperative, or private corporation. The organization must be an association controlled by a local public body or bodies, or have a broadly based ownership by or membership of people of the local community; or
(3) Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally recognized Indian tribes.
(b)
Eligible facilities.
Facilities financed by RUS may be located in non-rural areas. However, loan and grant funds may be used to finance only that portion of the facility serving rural areas, regardless of facility location.
(c)
Eligible projects.
(1) Projects must serve a rural area which, if such project is completed, is not likely to decline in population below that for which the project was designed.
(2) Projects must be designed and constructed so that adequate capacity will or can be made available to serve the present population of the area to the extent feasible and to serve the reasonably foreseeable growth needs of the area to the extent practicable.
(3) Projects must be necessary for orderly community development and consistent with a current comprehensive community water, waste disposal, or other current development plan for the rural area.
(d)
Credit elsewhere.
Applicants must certify in writing and the Agency shall determine and document that the applicant is unable to finance the proposed project from their own resources or through commercial credit at reasonable rates and terms.
(e)
Legal authority and responsibility.
Each applicant must have or will obtain the legal authority necessary for owning, constructing, operating, and maintaining the proposed facility or service and for obtaining, giving security for, and repaying the proposed loan. The applicant shall be responsible for operating, maintaining, and managing the facility, and providing for its
continued availability and use at reasonable user rates and charges. This responsibility shall be exercised by the applicant even though the facility may be operated, maintained, or managed by a third party under contract or management agreement. Guidance for preparing a management agreement is available from the Agency. Such contracts, management agreements, or leases must not contain options or other provisions for transfer of ownership.
(f)
Economic feasibility.
All projects financed under the provisions of this section must be based on taxes, assessments, income, fees, or other satisfactory sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for facility operation and maintenance, reasonable reserves, and debt payment. If the primary use of the facility is by business and the success or failure of the facility is dependent on the business, then the economic viability of that business must be assessed.
(g)
Federal Debt Collection Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).
An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive a loan or grant until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]
§ 1780.8
[Reserved]
§ 1780.9
Eligible loan and grant purposes.
Loan and grant funds may be used only for the following purposes:
(a) To construct, enlarge, extend, or otherwise improve rural water, sanitary sewage, solid waste disposal, and storm wastewater disposal facilities.
(b) To construct or relocate public buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities, and to make other public improvements necessary for the successful operation or protection of facilities authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) To relocate private buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities, and other private improvements necessary for the successful operation or protection of facilities authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) For payment of other utility connection charges as provided in service contracts between utility systems.
(e) When a necessary part of the project relates to those facilities authorized in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section the following may be considered:
(1) Loan or grant funds may be used for:
(i) Reasonable fees and costs such as: legal, engineering, administrative services, fiscal advisory, recording, environmental analyses and surveys, possible salvage or other mitigation measures, planning, establishing or acquiring rights;
(ii) Costs of acquiring interest in land; rights, such as water rights, leases, permits, rights-of-way; and other evidence of land or water control or protection necessary for development of the facility;
(iii) Purchasing or renting equipment necessary to install, operate, maintain, extend, or protect facilities;
(iv) Cost of additional applicant labor and other expenses necessary to install and extend service; and
(v) In unusual cases, the cost for connecting the user to the main service line.
(2) Only loan funds may be used for:
(i) Interest incurred during construction in conjunction with multiple advances or interest on interim financing;
(ii) Initial operating expenses, including interest, for a period ordinarily not exceeding one year when the applicant is unable to pay such expenses;
(iii) The purchase of existing facilities when it is necessary either to improve service or prevent the loss of service;
(iv) Refinancing debts incurred by, or on behalf of, an applicant when all of the following conditions exist:
(A) The debts being refinanced are a secondary part of the total loan;
(B) The debts were incurred for the facility or service being financed or any part thereof; and
(C) Arrangements cannot be made with the creditors to extend or modify the terms of the debts so that a sound basis will exist for making a loan; and
(v) Prepayment of costs for which RUS grant funds were obligated.
(3) Grant funds may be used to restore loan funds used to prepay grant obligated costs.
(f) Construction incurred before loan or grant approval.
(1) Funds may be used to pay obligations for eligible project costs incurred before loan or grant approval if such requests are made in writing by the applicant and the Agency determines that:
(i) Compelling reasons exist for incurring obligations before loan or grant approval;
(ii) The obligations will be incurred for authorized loan or grant purposes; and
(iii) The Agency's authorization to pay such obligations is on the condition that it is not committed to make the loan or grant; it assumes no responsibility for any obligations incurred by the applicant; and the applicant must subsequently meet all loan or grant approval requirements, including environmental and contracting requirements.
(2) If construction is started without Agency approval, post-approval in accordance with this section may be considered, provided the construction meets applicable requirements including those regarding approval and environmental matters.
(g) Water or sewer service may be provided through individual installations or small clusters of users within an applicant's service area. The approval official should consider items such as: quantity and quality of the individual installations that may be developed; cost effectiveness of the individual facility compared with the initial and long term user cost on a central system; health and pollution problems attributable to individual facilities; operational or management problems peculiar to individual installations; and permit and regulatory agency requirements.
(1) Applicants providing service through individual facilities must meet the eligibility requirements in § 1780.7.
(2) The Agency must approve the form of agreement between the applicant and individual users for the installation, operation, maintenance and payment for individual facilities.
(3) If taxes or assessments are not pledged as security, applicants providing service through individual facilities must obtain security necessary to assure collection of any sum the individual user is obligated to pay the applicant.
(4) Notes representing indebtedness owed the applicant by a user for an individual facility will be scheduled for payment over a period not to exceed the useful life of the individual facility or the RUS loan, whichever is shorter. The interest rate will not exceed the interest rate charged the applicant on the RUS indebtedness.
(5) Applicants providing service through individual or cluster facilities must obtain:
(i) Easements for the installation and ingress to and egress from the facility if determined necessary by RUS; and
(ii) An adequate method for denying service in the event of nonpayment of user fees.
(h) A borrower is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this part to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 85 FR 57081, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 1780.10
Limitations.
(a) Loan and grant funds may not be used to finance:
(1) Facilities which are not modest in size, design, and cost;
(2) Loan or grant finder's fees;
(3) The construction of any new combined storm and sanitary sewer facilities;
(4) Any portion of the cost of a facility which does not serve a rural area;
(5) That portion of project costs normally provided by a business or industrial user, such as wastewater pretreatment, etc.;
(6) Rental for the use of equipment or machinery owned by the applicant;
(7) For other purposes not directly related to operating and maintenance of the facility being installed or improved; and
(8) A judgment which would disqualify an applicant for a loan or grant as provided for in § 1780.7(g).
(b) Grant funds may not be used to:
(1) Reduce EDU costs to a level less than similar system cost;
(2) Pay any costs of a project when the median household income of the service area is more than 100 percent of the nonmetropolitan median household income of the State;
(3) Pay project costs when other loan funding for the project is not at reasonable rates and terms; and
(4) Pay project costs when other funding is a guaranteed loan obtained in accordance with 7 CFR part 1779 of this title.
(c) Grants may not be made in excess of the following percentages of the RUS eligible project development costs. Facilities previously installed will not be considered in determining the development costs.
(1) 75 percent when the median household income of the service area is below the higher of the poverty line or 80% of the state nonmetropolitan median income and the project is necessary to alleviate a health or sanitary problem.
(2) 45 percent when the median household income of the service area exceeds the 80 percent requirements described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section but is not more than 100 percent of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income.
(3) Applicants are advised that the percentages contained in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section are maximum amounts and may be further limited due to availability of funds or the grant determination procedures contained in § 1780.35 (b).
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999; 66 FR 23151, May 8, 2001]
§ 1780.11
Service area requirements.
(a) All facilities financed under the provisions of this part shall be for public use. The facilities will be installed so as to serve any potential user within the service area who desires service and can be feasibly and legally served. This does not preclude:
(1) Financing or constructing projects in phases when it is not practical to finance or construct the entire project at one time; and
(2) Financing or constructing facilities where it is not economically feasible to serve the entire area, provided economic feasibility is determined on the basis of the entire system and not by considering the cost of separate extensions to or parts thereof; the applicant publicly announces a plan for extending service to areas not initially receiving service from the system; and potential users located in the areas not to be initially served receive written notice from the applicant that service will not be provided until such time as it is economically feasible to do so.
(b) Should the Agency determine that inequities exist within the applicants service area for the same type service proposed (i.e., water or waste disposal) such inequities will be remedied by the applicant prior to loan or grant approval or included as part of the project. Inequities are defined as unjustified variations in availability, adequacy or quality of service. User rate schedules for portions of existing systems that were developed under different financing, rates, terms or conditions do not necessarily constitute inequities.
(c) Developers are normally expected to provide utility-type facilities in new or developing areas in compliance with appropriate State statutes. RUS financing will be considered to an eligible applicant only in such cases when failure to complete development would result in an adverse economic condition for the rural area (not the community being developed); the proposal is necessary to the success of a current area development plan; and loan repayment can be assured by:
(1) The applicant already having sufficient assured revenues to repay the loan; or
(2) Developers providing a bond or escrowed security deposit as a guarantee sufficient to meet expenses attributable to the area in question until a sufficient number of the building sites are occupied and connected to the facility to provide enough revenues to meet operating, maintenance, debt service, and reserve requirements. Such guarantees from developers will
meet the requirements in § 1780.39(c)(4)(ii); or
(3) Developers paying cash for the increased capital cost and any increased operating expenses until the developing area will support the increased costs; or
(4) The full faith and credit of a public body where the debt is evidenced by general obligation bonds; or
(5) The loan is to a public body evidenced by a pledge of tax revenue or assessments; or
(6) The user charges can become a lien upon the property being served and income from such lien can be collected in sufficient time to be used for its intended purposes.
§ 1780.12
[Reserved]
§ 1780.13
Rates and terms.
(a)
General.
(1) Each loan will bear interest at the rate prescribed in RD Instruction 440.1, exhibit B. The interest rates will be set by the Agency for each quarter of the fiscal year. All rates will be adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of one per centum. The rate will be the lower of the rate in effect at the time of loan approval or the rate in effect at the time of loan closing unless the applicant otherwise chooses.
(2) If the interest rate is to be that in effect at loan closing on a loan involving multiple advances of RUS funds using temporary debt instruments, the interest rate charged shall be that in effect on the date when the first temporary debt instrument is issued.
(3) For a loan for a specific project that has been approved, but not closed on or before May 22, 2008, the rate structure in effect at that time will determine the interest rates. For loans approved on or after May 23, 2008, a percentage of the market rate will be used to determine the poverty and intermediate interest rates.
(b)
Poverty rate.
The poverty interest rate will not exceed 5 per centum per annum. Loans approved on or after May 23, 2008, will have the poverty interest rate set at 60 percent of the market rate. All poverty rate loans must comply with the following conditions:
(1) The primary purpose of the loan is to upgrade existing facilities or construct new facilities required to meet applicable health or sanitary standards; and
(2) The median household income of the service area is below the higher of the poverty line, or 80 percent of the Statewide nonmetropolitan median household income.
(c)
Intermediate rate.
The intermediate interest rate will not exceed 7 percent per annum. For a loan for a specific project that has been approved, but not closed on or before May 22, 2008, the intermediate rate is the poverty rate plus one-half of the difference between the poverty rate and the market rate, not to exceed 7 percent per annum. Loans approved on or after May 23, 2008, will have the intermediate interest rate set at 80 percent of the market rate. The intermediate interest rate will apply to loans that do not meet the requirements for the poverty rate and for which the median household income of the service area is not more than 100 percent of the nonmetropolitan median household income of the State.
(d)
Market rate.
The market interest rate will be set using as guidance the average of the Bond Buyer Index (available in any Agency office or the program's Web site) for the four weeks prior to the first Friday of the last month before the beginning of the quarter. The market rate will apply to all loans that do not qualify for a different rate under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(e)
Repayment terms.
The loan repayment period shall not exceed the useful life of the facility, State statute or 40 years from the date of the note or bond, whichever is less. Where RUS grant funds are used in connection with an RUS loan, the loan will be for the maximum term permitted by this part, State statute, or the useful life of the facility, whichever is less, unless there is an exceptional case where circumstances justify making an RUS loan for less than the maximum term permitted. In such cases, the reasons must be fully documented.
(1) Principal payments may be deferred in whole or in part for a period not to exceed 36 months following the date the first interest installment is due. If for any reason it appears necessary to permit a longer period of
deferment, the Agency may authorize such deferment. Deferments of principal will not be used to:
(i) Postpone the levying of taxes or assessments;
(ii) Delay collection of the full rates which the borrower has agreed to charge users for its services as soon as those services become available;
(iii) Create reserves for normal operation and maintenance;
(iv) Make any capital improvements except those approved by the Agency which are determined to be essential to the repayment of the loan or to maintain adequate security; and
(v) Make payment on other debt.
(2)
Payment date.
Loan payments will be scheduled to coincide with income availability and be in accordance with State law. If State law only permits principal plus interest (P
I) type bonds, annual or semiannual payments will be used. Insofar as practical monthly payments will be scheduled one full month following the date of loan closing; or semiannual or annual payments will be scheduled six or twelve full months, respectively, following the date of loan closing or any deferment period. Due dates falling on the 29th, 30th or 31st day of the month will be avoided.
(3) In all cases, including those in which RUS is jointly financing with another lender, the RUS payments of principal and interest should approximate amortized installments.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 395, Jan. 6, 2009; 82 FR 43671, Sept. 19, 2017]
§ 1780.14
Security.
Loans will be secured by the best security position practicable in a manner which will adequately protect the interest of RUS during the repayment period of the loan. Specific security requirements for each loan will be included in a letter of conditions.
(a)
Public bodies.
Loans to such borrowers, including Federally recognized Indian tribes as appropriate, will be evidenced by notes, bonds, warrants, or other contractual obligations as may be authorized by relevant laws and by borrower's documents, resolutions, and ordinances. Security, in the following order of preference, will consist of:
(1) The full faith and credit of the borrower when the debt is evidenced by general obligation bonds; and/or
(2) Pledges of taxes or assessments; and/or
(3) Pledges of facility revenue and, when it is the customary financial practice in the State, liens will be taken on the interest of the applicant in all land, easements, rights-of-way, water rights, water purchase contracts, water sales contracts, sewage treatment contracts, and similar property rights, including leasehold interests, used or to be used in connection with the facility whether owned at the time the loan is approved or acquired with loan funds.
(b)
Other-than-public bodies.
Loans to other-than-public body applicants and Federally recognized Indian tribes, as appropriate, will be secured in the following order of preference:
(1) Assignments of borrower income will be taken and perfected by filing, if legally permissible; and
(2) A lien will be taken on the interest of the applicant in all land, easements, rights-of-way, water rights, water purchase contracts, water sales contracts, sewage treatment contracts and similar property rights, including leasehold interest, used, or to be used in connection with the facility whether owned at the time the loan is approved or acquired with loan funds. In unusual circumstances where it is not legally permissible or feasible to obtain a lien on such land (such as land rights obtained from Federal or local government agencies, and from railroads) and the approval official determines that the interest of RUS is otherwise adequately secured, the lien requirement may be omitted as to such land rights. For existing borrowers where the Agency already has a security position on real property, the approval official may determine that the interest of the Government is adequately secured and not require additional liens on such land rights. When the subsequent loan is approved or the acquisition of real property is subject to an outstanding lien indebtedness, the next highest priority lien obtainable will be taken if the approval official determines that the loan is adequately secured.
(c)
Joint financing security.
For projects utilizing joint financing, when adequate security of more than one type is available, the other lender may take one type of security with RUS taking another type. For projects utilizing joint financing with the same security to be shared by RUS and another lender, RUS will obtain at least a parity position with the other lender. A parity position is to ensure that with joint security, in the event of default, each lender will be affected on a proportionate basis. A parity position will conform with the following unless an exception is granted by the approval official:
(1) It is not necessary for loans to have the same repayment terms. Loans made by other lenders involved in joint financing with RUS should be scheduled for repayment on terms similar to those customarily used in the State for financing such facilities.
(2) The use of a trustee or other similar paying agent by the other lender in a joint financing arrangement is acceptable to RUS. A trustee or other similar paying agent will not normally be used for the RUS portion of the funding unless required to comply with State law. The responsibilities and authorities of any trustee or other similar paying agent on projects that include RUS funds must be clearly specified by written agreement and approved by the State program official and the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). RUS must be able to deal directly with the borrower to enforce the provisions of loan and grant agreements and perform necessary servicing actions.
(3) In the event adequate funds are not available to meet regular installments on parity loans, the funds available will be apportioned to the lenders based on the respective current installments of principal and interest due.
(4) Funds obtained from the sale or liquidation of secured property or fixed assets will be apportioned to the lenders on the basis of the pro rata amount outstanding; provided, however, funds obtained from such sale or liquidation for a project that included RUS grant funds will be apportioned as required by the grant agreement.
(5) Protective advances must be charged to the borrower's account and be secured by a lien on the security property. To the extent consistent with State law and customary lending practices in the area, repayment of protective advances made by either lender, for the mutual protection of both lenders, should receive first priority in apportionment of funds between the lenders. To ensure agreement between lenders, efforts should be made to obtain the concurrence of both lenders before one lender makes a protective advance.
§ 1780.15
Other Federal, State, and local requirements.
Proposals for facilities financed in whole or in part with RUS funds will be coordinated with appropriate Federal, State and local agencies. If there are conflicts between this part and State or local laws or regulatory commission regulations, the provisions of this part will control. Applicants will be required to comply with Federal, State, and local laws and any regulatory commission rules and regulations pertaining to:
(a) Organization of the applicant and its authority to own, construct, operate, and maintain the proposed facilities;
(b) Borrowing money, giving security therefore, and raising revenues for the repayment thereof;
(c) Land use zoning; and
(d) Health and sanitation standards and design and installation standards unless an exception is granted by RUS.
§ 1780.16
[Reserved]
§ 1780.17
Selection priorities and process.
When ranking eligible applications for consideration for limited funds, Agency officials must consider the priority items met by each application and the degree to which those priorities are met. Points will be awarded as follows:
(a)
Population priorities.
(1) The proposed project will primarily serve a rural area having a population not in excess of 1,000—25 points;
(2) The proposed project primarily serves a rural area having a population between 1,001 and 2,500—15 points;
(3) The proposed project primarily serves a rural area having a population between 2,501 and 5,500—5 points.
(b)
Health priorities.
The proposed project is:
(1) Needed to alleviate an emergency situation, correct unanticipated diminution or deterioration of a water supply, or to meet Safe Drinking Water Act requirements which pertain to a water system—25 points;
(2) Required to correct inadequacies of a wastewater disposal system, or to meet health standards which pertain to a wastewater disposal system—25 points;
(3) Required to meet administrative orders issued to correct local, State, or Federal solid waste violations—15 points.
(c)
Median household income priorities.
The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed project is:
(1) Less than the poverty line if the poverty line is less than 80% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income—30 points;
(2) Less than 80 percent of the statewide nonmetropolitan median household income—20 points;
(3) Equal to or more than the poverty line and between 80% and 100%, inclusive, of the State's nonmetropolitan median household income—15 points.
(d)
Other priorities.
(1) The proposed project will: merge ownership, management, and operation of smaller facilities providing for more efficient management and economical service—15 points;
(2) The proposed project will enlarge, extend, or otherwise modify existing facilities to provide service to additional rural areas—10 points;
(3) Applicant is a public body or Indian tribe—5 points;
(4) Amount of other than RUS funds committed to the project is:
(i) 50% or more—15 points;
(ii) 20% to 49%—10 points;
(iii) 5%—19%—5 points;
(5) Projects that will serve Agency identified target areas—10 points;
(6) Projects that primarily recycle solid waste products thereby limiting the need for solid waste disposal—5 points;
(7) The proposed project will serve an area that has an unreliable quality or supply of drinking water—10 points.
(e) In certain cases the State program official may assign up to 15 points to a project. The points may be awarded to projects in order to improve compatibility and coordination between RUS's and other agencies' selection systems, to ensure effective RUS fund utilization, and to assist those projects that are the most cost effective. A written justification must be prepared and placed in the project file each time these points are assigned.
(f)
Cost overruns.
An application may receive consideration for funding before others at the State or National Office level when it is a subsequent request for a previously approved project which has encountered construction cost overruns. The cost overruns must be due to high bids or unexpected construction problems that cannot be reduced by negotiations, redesign, use of bid alternatives, rebidding or other means. Cost overruns exceeding 20% of the development cost at time of loan or grant approval or where the scope of the original purpose has changed will not be considered under this paragraph.
(g)
National office priorities.
In selecting projects for funding at the National Office level State program official points may or may not be considered. The Administrator may assign up to 15 additional points to account for items such as geographic distribution of funds, the highest priority projects within a state, and emergency conditions caused by economic problems or natural disasters. The Administrator may delegate the authority to assign the 15 points to appropriate National Office staff.
§ 1780.18
Allocation of program funds.
(a)
General.
(1) The purpose of this part is to set forth the methodology and formulas by which the Administrator of the RUS allocates program funds to the States. (The term “State” means any of the States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or the Western Pacific Areas.)
(2) The formulas in this part are used to allocate program loan and grant
funds to Rural Development State offices so that the overall mission of the Agency can be carried out. Considerations used when developing the formulas include enabling legislation, congressional direction, and administration policies. Allocation formulas ensure that program resources are available on an equal basis to all eligible individuals and organizations.
(3) The actual amounts of funds, as computed by the methodology and formulas contained herein, allocated to a State for a funding period, are distributed to each State office. The allocated amounts are available for review in any Rural Development State office.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Amount available for allocations.
Funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Agency for use in authorized programs. On occasion, the allocation of funds to States may not be practical for a particular program due to funding or administrative constraints. In these cases, funds will be controlled by the National Office.
(2)
Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.
Basic formulas are used to calculate a basic State factor as a part of the methodology for allocating funds to the States. The formulas take a number of criteria that reflect the funding needs for a particular program and through a normalization and weighting process for each of the criteria calculate the basic State factor (SF). The data sources used for each criteria are believed to be the most current and reliable information that adequately quantifies the criterion. The weight, expressed as a percentage, gives a relative value to the importance of each of the criteria.
(3)
Basic formula allocation.
The result of multiplying the amount available for allocation less the total of any amounts held in reserve or distributed by base or administrative allocation times the basic State factor for each State. The basic formula allocation (BFA) for an individual State is equal to:
BFA = (Amount available for allocation − NO reserve − total base and administrative allocations) × SF.
(4)
Transition formula.
(i) A formula based on a proportional amount of previous year allocation used to maintain program continuity by preventing large fluctuations in individual State allocations. The transition formula limits allocation shifts to any particular State in the event of changes from year to year of the basic formula, the basic criteria, or the weights given the criteria. The transition formula first checks whether the current year's basic formula allocation is within the transition range (plus or minus 20 percentage points of the proportional amount of the previous year's BFA). The formula follows:
ER19JN97.000
(ii) If the current year's State BFA is not within the transition range in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the State formula allocation is changed to the amount of the transition range limit closest to the BFA amount. After having performed this transition adjustment for each State, the sum of the funds allocated to all States will differ from the amount of funds available for BFA. This difference, whether a positive or negative amount, is distributed to all States receiving a formula allocation by multiplying the difference by the SF. The end result is the transition formula allocation. The transition range will not exceed 40% (plus or minus 20%), but when a smaller range is used it will be stated in the individual program section.
(5)
Base allocation.
An amount that may be allocated to each State dependent upon the particular program to provide the opportunity for funding at least one typical loan or grant in each Rural Development State office. The amount of the base allocation may be determined by criteria other than that used in the basic formula allocation such as Agency historic data.
(6)
Administrative allocations.
Allocations made by the Administrator in cases where basic formula criteria information is not available. This form of allocation may be used when the Administrator determines the program objectives cannot be adequately met with a formula allocation.
(7)
Reserve.
An amount retained under the National Office control for each loan and grant program to provide flexibility in meeting situations of unexpected or justifiable need occurring during the fiscal year. The Administrator may make distributions from this reserve to any State when it is determined necessary to meet a program need or Agency objective. The Administrator may retain additional amounts to fund authorized demonstration programs.
(8)
Pooling of funds.
A technique used to ensure that available funds are used in an effective, timely and efficient manner. At the time of pooling those funds within a State's allocation for the fiscal year or portion of the fiscal year, depending on the type of pooling, that have not been obligated by the State are placed in the National Office reserve. The Administrator will establish the pooling dates for each affected program.
(i) Mid-year: Mid-year pooling occurs near the midpoint of the fiscal year.
(ii) Year-end: Year-end pooling usually occurs near the first of August.
(iii) Emergency: The Administrator may pool funds at any time that it is determined the conditions upon the initial allocation was based have changed to such a degree that it is necessary to pool funds in order to efficiently carry out the Agency mission.
(9)
Availability of the allocation.
Program funds are made available to the Agency on a quarterly basis.
(10)
Suballocation by the Rural Development State Director.
The State Director may be directed or given the option of suballocating the State allocation to processing offices. When suballocating the State Director may retain a portion of the funds in a State office reserve to provide flexibility in situations of unexpected or justified need. When performing a suballocation the State Director will use the same formula, criteria and weights as used by the National Office.
(c)
Water and waste disposal loans and grants
—(1)
Amount available for allocations.
See paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2)
Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.
See paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(i) The criteria used in the basic formula are:
(A) State's percentage of national rural population will be 50 percent.
(B) State's percentage of national rural population with income below the poverty level will be 25 percent.
(C) State's percentage of national nonmetropolitan unemployment will be 25 percent.
(ii) The data sources for each criterion identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Each criterion is assigned a specific weight according to its relevance in determining need. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight factor and summed to arrive at a State factor (SF). The SF cannot exceed 0.05, as follows:
SF = (criterion in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section × 50 percent) + (criterion in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) × 25 percent) + (criterion in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section × 25 percent)
(A) For the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the most recent decennial Census data.
(B) For the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS).
(C) For the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, the 5-year data from the ACS.
(3)
Basic formula allocation.
See paragraph (b)(3) of this section. States receiving administrative allocations do not receive formula allocations.
(4)
Transition formula.
See paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The percentage range for the transition formula equals 30 percent (plus or minus 15%).
(5)
Base allocation.
See paragraph (b)(5) of this section. States receiving administrative allocations do not receive base allocations.
(6)
Administrative allocation.
See paragraph (b)(6) of this section. States participating in the formula and base allocation procedures do not receive administrative allocations.
(7)
Reserve.
See paragraph (b)(7) of this section. Any State may request reserve funds by forwarding a request to the National Office. Generally, a request for additional funds will not be honored unless the State has insufficient funds to obligate the loan requested.
(8)
Pooling of funds.
See paragraph (b)(8) of this section. Funds are generally pooled at mid-year and year-end. Pooled funds will be placed in the National Office reserve and will be made available administratively.
(9)
Availability of the allocation.
See paragraph (b)(9) of this section. The allocation of funds is made available for States to obligate on an annual basis although the Office of Management and Budget apportions it to the Agency on a quarterly basis.
(10)
Suballocation by the State Director.
See paragraph (b)(10) of this section. The State Director has the option to suballocate funds to processing offices.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 9863, Feb. 24, 2015; 89 FR 34961, May 1, 2024]
§ 1780.19
Public information.
(a)
Public notice of intent to file an application with the Agency.
Within 60 days of filing an application with the Agency the applicant must publish a notice of intent to apply for a RUS loan or grant. The notice of intent must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the proposed area to be served.
(b)
General public meeting.
Applicants should inform the general public regarding the development of any proposed project. Any applicant not required to obtain authorization by vote of its membership or by public referendum, to incur the obligations of the proposed loan or grant, must hold at least one public information meeting. The public meeting must be held not later than loan or grant approval. The meeting must give the citizenry an opportunity to become acquainted with the proposed project and to comment on such items as economic and environmental impacts, service area, alternatives to the project, or any other issue identified by Agency. To the extent possible, this meeting should cover items necessary to satisfy all public information meeting requirements for the proposed project. To minimize duplication of public notices and public involvement, the applicant shall, where possible, coordinate and integrate the public involvement activities of the environmental review process into this requirement. The applicant will be required, at least 10 days prior to the meeting, to publish a notice of the meeting in a newspaper of general circulation in the service area, to post a public notice at the applicant's principal office, and to notify the Agency. The applicant will provide the Agency a copy of the published notice and minutes of the public meeting. A public meeting is not normally required for subsequent loans or grants which are needed to complete the financing of a project.
§§ 1780.20-1780.23
[Reserved]
§ 1780.24
Approval authorities.
Appropriate reviews, concurrence, and authorization must be obtained for all loans or grants in excess of the amounts indicated in RUS Staff Instruction 1780-1.
(a)
Redelegation of authority by State Directors.
Unless restricted by memorandum from the RUS Administrator, State Directors can redelegate their approval authorities to State employees by memorandum.
(b)
Restriction of approval authority by the RUS Administrator.
The RUS Administrator can make written restrictions or revocations of the authority given to any approval official.
§ 1780.25
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law and is determined to be in the Government's interest.
§§ 1780.26-1780.30
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Loan and Grant Application Processing
§ 1780.31
General.
(a) Applicants are encouraged to contact the Agency processing office early in the planning stages of their project. Agency personnel are available to provide general advice and assistance regarding RUS programs, other funding sources, and types of systems or improvements appropriate for the applicants needs. The Agency can also provide access to technical assistance and other information resources for other project development issues such as public information, income surveys, developing rate schedules, system operation and maintenance, and environmental compliance requirements. Throughout the planning, application processing and construction of the project, Agency personnel will work closely and cooperatively with the applicant and their representatives, other State and Federal agencies and technical assistance providers.
(b) The processing office will handle initial inquiries and provide basic information about the program. They are to provide the application, SF 424.2, “Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction),” assist applicants as needed in completing SF 424.2, and in filing a request for intergovernmental review. Federally recognized Indian tribes are exempt from intergovernmental review. The processing office will explain eligibility requirements and meet with the applicant whenever necessary to discuss application processing.
(c) Applicants can make a written request for an eligibility determination in lieu of filing an SF 424.2 along with the information required by § 1780.33. Applicants seeking only an eligibility determination, should contact the processing office to obtain a list of the items needed to make this determination. An eligibility determination for loan or grant assistance will not give an applicant priority for funding as set forth in § 1780.17.
(d) Applications that are not developed in a reasonable period of time taking into account the size and complexity of the proposed project may be removed from the State's active file. Applicants will be consulted prior to taking such action.
(e) During the earliest discussion with prospective applicants, the Agency will advise prospective applicants on environmental review requirements and evaluation of potential environmental impacts of the proposal. In accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, environmental review requirements shall be performed by the applicant simultaneously and concurrently with the proposal's engineering planning and design.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68655, Dec. 11, 1998; 81 FR 11028, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1780.32
Timeframes for application processing.
(a) The processing office will determine if the application is properly assembled. If not, the applicant will be notified within fifteen federal working days as to what additional submittal items are needed.
(b) The processing and approval offices will coordinate their reviews to ensure that the applicant is advised about eligibility and anticipated fund availability within 45 days of the receipt of a completed application.
§ 1780.33
Application requirements.
An initial application consists of the following:
(a) One copy of a completed SF 424.2;
(b) A copy of the State intergovernmental comments or one copy of the filed application for State intergovernmental review; and
(c) Two copies of the preliminary engineering report (PER) for the project.
(1) The PER may be submitted to the processing office prior to the rest of the application material if the applicant desires a preliminary review.
(2) The processing office will forward one copy of the PER with comments and recommendations to the State staff engineer for review upon receipt from the applicant.
(3) The State staff engineer will consult with the applicant's engineer as appropriate to resolve any questions concerning the PER. Written comments will be provided by the State
staff engineer to the processing office to meet eligibility determination time lines.
(d) Written certification that other credit is not available.
(e) Supporting documentation necessary to make an eligibility determination such as financial statements, audits, organizational documents, or existing debt instruments. The processing office will advise applicants regarding the required documents. Applicants that are indebted to RUS will not need to submit documents already on file with the processing office.
(f)
Environmental review requirements.
The applicant must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(1) Upon receipt of the Environmental Report, the processing office shall forward one copy of the report with comments and recommendation to the State Environmental Coordinator for review.
(2) The State Environmental Coordinator will consult with the applicant as appropriate to resolve any environmental concerns. Written comments will be provided by the State Environmental Coordinator to the processing office to meet eligibility determination time lines.
(g) The applicant's Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The TIN will be used by the Agency to assign a case number which will be the applicant's or transferee's TIN preceded by State and County Code numbers. Only one case number will be assigned to each applicant regardless of the number of loans or grants or number of separate facilities, unless an exception is authorized by the National Office.
(h) Other Forms and certifications. Applicants will be required to submit the following items to the processing office, upon notification from the processing office to proceed with further development of the full application:
(1) Form RD 442-7, “Operating Budget”;
(2) Form RD 1910-11, “Application Certification, Federal Collection Policies for Consumer or Commercial Debts”;
(3) Form RD 400-1, “Equal Opportunity Agreement”;
(4) Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement”;
(5) Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension and other Responsibility Matters”;
(6) Form AD-1049, Certification regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative I For Grantees Other Than Individuals;
(7) Certifications for Contracts, Grants, and Loans (Regarding Lobbying); and
(8) Certification regarding prohibited tying arrangements. Applicants that provide electric service must provide the Agency a certification that they will not require users of a water or waste facility financed under this part to accept electric service as a condition of receiving assistance.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68655, Dec. 11, 1998; 81 FR 11028, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1780.34
Strategic economic and community development.
Applicants with projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans are encouraged to review and consider 7 CFR part 1980, subpart K, which contains provisions for providing priority to projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis.
[85 FR 59393, Sept. 22, 2020]
§ 1780.35
Processing office review.
Review of the application will usually include the following:
(a)
Nondiscrimination.
Boundaries for the proposed service area must not be chosen in such a way that any user or area will be excluded because of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, age, handicap, or national origin. This does not preclude construction of the project in phases as noted in § 1780.11 as long as it is not done in a discriminatory manner.
(b)
Grant determination.
Grants will be determined by the processing office in accordance with the following provisions and will not result in EDU costs below similar system user cost.
(1)
Maximum grant.
Grants may not exceed the percentages in § 1780.10(c) of
the eligible RUS project development costs listed in § 1780.9.
(2)
Debt service.
Applicants will be considered for grant assistance when the debt service portion of the average annual EDU cost, for users in the applicant's service area, exceeds the following percentages of median household income:
(i) 0.5 percent when the median household income of the service area is equal to or below 80% of the statewide nonmetropolitan median income.
(ii) 1.0 percent when the median household income of the service area exceeds the 0.5 percent requirement but is not more than 100 percent the statewide nonmetropolitan household income.
(3)
Similar system cost.
If the grant determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section results in an annual EDU cost that is not comparable with similar systems, the Agency will determine a grant amount based on achieving EDU costs that are not below similar system user costs.
(4)
Wholesale service.
When an applicant provides wholesale sales or services on a contract basis to another system or entity, similar wholesale system cost will be used in determining the amount of grant needed to achieve a reasonable wholesale user cost.
(5)
Subsidized cost.
When annual cost to the applicant for delivery of service is subsidized by either the state, commonwealth, or territory, and uniform flat user charges regardless of usage are imposed for similar classes of service throughout the service area, the Agency may proceed with a grant in an amount necessary to reduce such delivery cost to a reasonable level.
(c)
User charges.
The user charges should be reasonable and produce enough revenue to provide for all costs of the facility after the project is complete. The planned revenue should be sufficient to provide for all debt service, debt reserve, operation and maintenance, and, if appropriate, additional revenue for facility replacement of short-lived assets without building a substantial surplus. Ordinarily, the total debt service reserve will be equal to one average annual loan installment which will accumulate at the rate of one-tenth of the total each year.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]
§ 1780.36
Approving official review.
Projects may be obligated as their applications are completed and approved.
(a)
Selection of applications for further processing.
The application and supporting information submitted will be used to determine the applications selected for further development and funding. After completing the review, the approval official will normally select those eligible applications with the highest priority scores for further processing. When authorizing the development of an application for funding, the following will be considered:
(1) Funds available in State allocation;
(2) Anticipated allocation of funds for the next fiscal year; and
(3) Time necessary for applicant to complete the application.
(b)
Lower scoring projects.
(1) In cases where preliminary cost estimates indicate that an eligible, high scoring application is unfeasible or would require an amount of funding from RUS that exceeds either 25 percent of a State's current annual allocation or an amount greater than that remaining in the State's allocation, the approval official may instead select the next lower scoring application for further processing provided the high scoring applicant is notified of this action and given an opportunity to revise the proposal and resubmit it.
(2) If it is found that there is no effective way to reduce costs or no other funding sources, the approval official, after consultation with applicant, may submit a request for an additional allocation of funds for the proposed project to the National Office. The request should be submitted during the fiscal year in which obligation is anticipated. Such request will be considered along with all others on hand. A written justification must be prepared and placed in the project file.
§ 1780.37
Applications determined ineligible.
If at any time an application is determined ineligible, the processing office will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons. The notification to the applicant will state that an appeal of this decision may be made by the applicant under 7 CFR part 11.
§ 1780.38
[Reserved]
§ 1780.39
Application processing.
(a)
Processing conference.
Before starting to assemble the full application, the applicant should arrange through the processing office an application conference to provide a basis for orderly application assembly. The processing office will explain program requirements, public information requirements and provide guidance on preparation of items necessary for approval.
(b)
Professional services and contracts related to the facility.
Fees provided for in contracts or agreements shall be reasonable. The Agency shall consider fees to be reasonable if they are not in excess of those ordinarily charged by the profession as a whole for similar work when RUS financing is not involved. Applicants will be responsible for providing the services necessary to plan projects including design of facilities, environmental review and documentation requirements, preparation of cost and income estimates, development of proposals for organization and financing, and overall operation and maintenance of the facility. Applicants should negotiate for procurement of professional services, whereby competitors' qualifications are evaluated and the most qualified competitor is selected, subject to negotiations of fair and reasonable compensation. Contracts or other forms of agreement between the applicant and its professional and technical representatives are required and are subject to RUS concurrence.
(1)
Engineering and architectural services.
(i) Applicants shall publicly announce all requirements for engineering and architectural services, and negotiate contracts for engineering and architectural services on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications for the type of professional services required and at a fair and reasonable price.
(ii) When project design services are procured separately, the selection of the engineer or architect shall be done by requesting qualification-based proposals and in accordance with this section.
(iii) Applicants may procure engineering and architectural services in accordance with applicable State statutes or local requirements provided the State Director determines that such procurement meets the intent of this section.
(2)
Other professional services.
Professional services of the following may be necessary: Attorney, bond counsel, accountant, auditor, appraiser, environmental professionals, and financial advisory or fiscal agent (if desired by applicant). Guidance on entering into an agreement for legal services is available from the Agency.
(3)
Bond counsel.
Unless otherwise provided by subpart D of this part, public bodies are required to obtain the service of recognized bond counsel in the preparation of evidence of indebtedness.
(4)
Contracts for other services.
Contracts or other forms of agreements for other services including management, operation, and maintenance will be developed by the applicant and presented to the Agency for review and concurrence. Guidance on entering into a management agreement is available from the Agency.
(c)
User estimates.
Applicants dependent on users fees for debt payment or operation and maintenance expenses shall base their income and expense forecast on realistic user estimates. For users presently not receiving service, consideration must be given to the following:
(1) An estimated number of maximum users should not be used when setting user fees and rates since it may be several years before all residents will need service by the system. In establishing rates a realistic number of users should be employed.
(2)
New user cash contributions.
The amount of cash contributions required
will be set by the applicant and concurred in by the approval official. Contributions should be an amount high enough to indicate sincere interest on the part of the potential user, but not so high as to preclude service to low income families. Contributions ordinarily should be an amount approximating one year's minimum user fee, and shall be paid in full before loan closing or commencement of construction, whichever occurs first. Once economic feasibility is ascertained based on a demonstration of potential user cash contributions, the contribution, membership fee or other fees that may be imposed are not a loan requirement under this section. A new user cash contribution is not required when:
(i) The Agency determines that the potential users as a whole in the applicant's service area cannot make cash contributions; or
(ii) State statutes or local ordinances require mandatory use of the system and the applicant or legal entity having such authority agrees in writing to enforce such statutes, or ordinances.
(3) An enforceable user agreement with a penalty clause is required (RUS Bulletin 1780-9 can be used) except:
(i) For users presently receiving service; or
(ii) Where mandatory use of the system is required.
(4) Individual vacant property owners will not be considered when determining project feasibility unless:
(i) The owner has plans to develop the property in a reasonable period of time and become a user of the facility; and
(ii) The owner agrees in writing to make a monthly payment at least equal to the proportionate share of debt service attributable to the vacant property until the property is developed and the facility is utilized on a regular basis. A bond or escrowed security deposit must be provided to guarantee this monthly payment and to guarantee an amount at least equal to the owner's proportionate share of construction costs. If a bond is provided, it must be executed by a surety company that appears on the Treasury Department's most current list (Circular 570, as amended) and be authorized to transact business in the State where the project is located. The guarantee shall be payable jointly to the borrower and the United States of America.
(5) Applicants must provide a positive program to encourage connection by all users as soon as service is available. The program will be available for review and concurrence by the processing office before loan closing or commencement of construction, whichever occurs first. Such a program shall include:
(i) An aggressive information program to be carried out during the construction period. The applicant should send written notification to all signed users in advance of the date service will be available, stating the date users will be expected to have their connections completed, and the date user charges will begin;
(ii) Positive steps to assure that installation services will be available. These may be provided by the contractor installing the system, local plumbing companies, or local contractors;
(iii) Aggressive action to see that all signed users can finance their connections.
(d)
Interim financing.
For all loans exceeding $500,000, where funds can be borrowed at reasonable interest rates on an interim basis from commercial sources for the construction period, such interim financing may be obtained so as to preclude the necessity for multiple advances of RUS loan funds. However, the approval official may make an exception when interim financing is cost prohibitive or unavailable. Guidance on informing the private lender of RUS's commitment is available from the Agency. When interim commercial financing is used, the application will be processed, including obtaining construction bids, to the stage where the RUS loan would normally be closed, that is immediately prior to the start of construction. The RUS loan should be closed as soon as possible after the disbursal of all interim funds.
(e)
Reserve requirements.
Provision for the accumulation of necessary reserves over a reasonable period of time will be included in the loan documents.
(1)
General obligation or special assessment bonds.
Ordinarily, the requirements for reserves will be considered to have been met if general obligation or other bonds which pledge the full faith and credit of the political subdivision are used, or special assessment bonds are used, and if such bonds provide for the annual collection of sufficient taxes or assessments to cover debt service.
(2)
Other than general obligation or special assessment bonds.
Each borrower will be required to establish and maintain reserves sufficient to assure that loan installments will be paid on time, for emergency maintenance, for extensions to facilities, and for replacement of short-lived assets which have a useful life significantly less than the repayment period of the loan. Borrowers issuing bonds or other evidences of debt pledging facility revenues as security will plan their debt reserve to provide for at least one average annual loan installment. The debt reserve will accumulate at the rate of one-tenth of an average annual loan installment each year unless prohibited by state law.
(f)
Membership authorization.
For organizations other than public bodies, the membership will authorize the project and its financing. Form RD 1942-8, “Resolution of Members or Stockholders,” may be used for this authorization. The approval official may accept RUS Bulletin 1780-28, “Loan Resolution Security Agreement,” without such membership authorization when State statutes and the organization's charter and bylaws do not require such authorization; and
(1) The organization is well established and is operating with a sound financial base; or
(2) The members of the organization have all signed an enforceable user agreement with a penalty clause and have made the required meaningful user cash contribution.
(g)
Insurance.
The purpose of RUS's insurance requirements is to protect the government's financial interest based on the facility financed with loan funds. It is the responsibility of the applicant and not that of RUS to assure that adequate insurance and fidelity or employee dishonesty bond coverage is maintained. The requirements below apply to all types of coverage determined necessary. The approval official may grant exceptions to normal requirements when appropriate justification is provided establishing that it is in the best interest of the applicant and will not adversely affect the government's interest.
(1) Insurance requirements proposed by the applicant will be accepted if the processing office determines that proposed coverage is adequate to protect the government's financial interest. Applicants are encouraged to have their attorney, consulting engineer, and/or insurance provider(s) review proposed types and amounts of coverage, including any deductible provisions.
(2) The use of deductibles may be allowed by RUS providing the applicant has financial resources which would likely be adequate to cover potential claims requiring payment of the deductible.
(3)
Fidelity or employee dishonesty bonds.
Applicants will provide coverage for all persons who have access to funds, including persons working under a contract or management agreement. Coverage may be provided either for all individual positions or persons, or through “blanket” coverage providing protection for all appropriate employees. An exception may be granted by the approval official when funds relating to the facility financed are handled by another entity and it is determined that the entity has adequate coverage or the government's interest would otherwise be adequately protected. The amount of coverage required by RUS will normally approximate the total annual debt service requirements for the RUS loans.
(4)
Property insurance.
Fire and extended coverage will normally be maintained on all structures except as noted below. Ordinarily, RUS should be listed as mortgagee on the policy when RUS has a lien on the property. Normally, major items of equipment or machinery located in the insured structures must also be covered. Exceptions:
(i) Reservoirs, pipelines and other structures if such structures are not normally insured;
(ii) Subsurface lift stations except for the value of electrical and pumping equipment therein.
(5) General liability insurance, including vehicular coverage.
(6) Flood insurance required for facilities located in special flood-and mudslide-prone areas.
(7)
Worker's compensation.
The borrower will carry worker's compensation insurance for employees in accordance with State laws.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) The processing office will assure that appropriate forms and documents listed in RUS Bulletin 1780-6 are complete. Letters of conditions will not be issued unless funds are available.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68655, Dec. 11, 1998; 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]
§ 1780.40
[Reserved]
§ 1780.41
Loan or grant approval.
(a) The processing office will submit the following to the approval official:
(1) Form RD 1942-45, “Project Summary”;
(2) Form RD 442-7, “Operating Budget”;
(3) Form RD 442-3, “Balance Sheet” or a financial statement or audit that includes a balance sheet;
(4) Form RD 442-14, “Association Project Fund Analysis”;
(5) “Letter of Conditions”;
(6) Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions”;
(7) Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds”;
(8) Completed environmental review documents including copies of public notices and appropriate proof of publication, if applicable; and
(9) Grant determination, if applicable.
(b) Approval and applicant notification will be accomplished by mailing to the applicant on the obligation date a copy of Form RD 1940-1. The date the applicant is notified is also the date the interest rate at loan approval is established.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68655, Dec. 11, 1998]
§ 1780.42
Transfer of obligations.
An obligation of funds established for an applicant may be transferred to a different (substituted) applicant provided:
(a) The substituted applicant is eligible and has the authority to receive the assistance approved for the original applicant; and
(b) The need, purpose(s) and scope of the project for which RUS funds will be used remain substantially unchanged.
§ 1780.43
[Reserved]
§ 1780.44
Actions prior to loan or grant closing or start of construction, whichever occurs first.
(a) Applicants must provide evidence of adequate insurance and fidelity or employee dishonesty bond coverage.
(b)
Verification of users and other funds.
In connection with a project that involves new users and will be secured by a pledge of user fees or revenues, the processing office will authenticate the number of users. Ordinarily each signed user agreement will be reviewed and checked for evidence of cash contributions. If during the review any indication is received that all signed users may not connect to the system, there will be such additional investigation made as deemed necessary to determine the number of users who will connect to the system.
(c)
Initial compliance review.
An initial compliance review should be completed under subpart E of part 1901 of this title.
(d)
Applicant contribution.
An applicant contributing funds toward the project cost shall deposit these funds in its project account before start of construction. Project costs paid with applicant funds prior to the required deposit time shall be appropriately accounted for.
(e)
Excess RUS loan and grant funds.
If there is a significant reduction in project cost, the applicant's funding needs will be reassessed. Decreases in RUS funds will be based on revised project costs and current number of users, however, other factors including RUS regulations used at the time of loan or grant approval will remain the same. Obligated loan or grant funds not needed to complete the proposed
project will be deobligated. Any reduction will be applied to grant funds first. In such cases, applicable forms, the letter of conditions, and other items will be revised.
(f)
Evidence of and disbursement of other funds.
Applicants expecting funds from other sources for use in completing projects being partially financed with RUS funds will present evidence of the commitment of these funds from such other sources. An agreement should be reached with all funding sources on how funds are to be disbursed before the start of construction. RUS funds will not be used to pre-finance funds committed to the project from other sources.
(g)
Acquisition of land, easements, water rights, and existing facilities.
Applicants are responsible for acquisition of all property rights necessary for the project and will determine that prices paid are reasonable and fair. RUS may require an appraisal by an independent appraiser or Agency employee.
(1)
Rights-of-way and easements.
Applicants will obtain valid, continuous and adequate rights-of-way and easements needed for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the facility.
(i) The applicant must provide a legal opinion relative to the title to rights-of-way and easements. Form RD 442-22, “Opinion of Counsel Relative to Rights-of-Way,” may be used. When a site is for major structures such as a reservoir or pumping station and the applicant is able to obtain only a right-of-way or easement on such a site rather than a fee simple title, the applicant will furnish a title report thereon by the applicant's attorney showing ownership of the land and all mortgages or other lien defects, restrictions, or encumbrances, if any.
(ii) For user connections funded by RUS, applicants will obtain adequate rights to construct and maintain the connection line or other facilities located on the user's property. This right may be obtained through formal easement or user agreements.
(2)
Title for land or existing facilities.
Title to land essential to the successful operation of facilities or title to facilities being purchased, must not contain any restrictions that will adversely affect the suitability, successful operation, security value, or transferability of the facility. Preliminary and final title opinions must be provided by the applicant's attorney. The opinions must be in sufficient detail to assess marketability of the property. Form RD 1927-9, “Preliminary Title Opinion,” and Form RD 1927-10, “Final Title Opinion,” may be used to provide the required title opinions.
(i) In lieu of receiving title opinions from the applicant's attorney, the applicant may use a title insurance company. If a title insurance company is used, the applicant must provide the Agency a title insurance binder, disclosing all title defects or restrictions, and include a commitment to issue a title insurance policy. The policy should be in an amount at least equal to the market value of the property as improved. The title insurance binder and commitment should be provided to the Agency prior to requesting closing instructions. The Agency will be provided a title insurance policy which will insure RUS's interest in the property without any title defects or restrictions which have not been waived by the Agency.
(ii) The approval official may waive title defects or restrictions, such as utility easements, that do not adversely affect the suitability, successful operation, security value, or transferability of the facility.
(3)
Water rights.
The following will be furnished as applicable:
(i) A statement by the applicant's attorney regarding the nature of the water rights owned or to be acquired by the applicant (such as conveyance of title, appropriation and decree, application and permit, public notice and appropriation and use).
(ii) A copy of a contract with another company or municipality to supply water; or stock certificates in another company which represents the right to receive water.
(4)
Lease agreements.
Where the right of use or control of real property not owned by the applicant is essential to the successful operation of the facility during the life of the loan, such right will be evidenced by written agreements or contracts between the owner of the property and the applicant. Lease agreements shall not contain
provisions for restricted use of the site of facility, forfeiture or summary cancellation clauses. Lease agreements shall provide for the right to transfer, encumber, assign and sub-lease without restriction. Lease agreements will ordinarily be written for a term at least equal to the term of the loan. Such lease contracts or agreements will be approved by the approval official with the advice and counsel of OGC, as necessary.
(h)
Obtaining loan closing instructions.
The information required by OGC will be transmitted to OGC with request for closing instructions. Upon receipt of closing instructions, the processing office will discuss with the applicant and its engineer, attorney, and other appropriate representatives, the requirements contained therein and any actions necessary to proceed with closing. State program officials have the option to work with OGC to obtain waivers for closing instructions in certain cases. Closing instructions are not required for grants.
§ 1780.45
Loan and grant closing and delivery of funds.
(a)
Loan closing.
Notes and bonds will be completed on the date of loan closing except for the entry of subsequent RUS multiple advances where applicable. The amount of each note will be in multiples of not less than $100. The amount of each bond will ordinarily be in multiples of not less than $1,000.
(1) Form RD 440-22, “Promissory Note (Association or Organization),” will ordinarily be used for loans to nonpublic bodies.
(2) RUS Bulletins 1780-27, “Loan Resolution (Public Bodies),” or 1780-28, “Loan Resolution Security Agreement,” will be adopted by public and other-than-public bodies. These resolutions supplement other provisions in this part.
(3) Subpart D of this part contains instructions for preparation of notes and bonds evidencing indebtedness of public bodies.
(b)
Loan disbursement.
(1) Multiple advances. Multiple advances will be used only for loans in excess of $100,000. Advances will be made only as needed to cover disbursements required by the borrower over a 30-day period.
(i) Subpart D of this part contains instructions for making multiple advances to public bodies.
(ii) Advances will be requested by the borrower in writing. The request should be in sufficient amounts to pay cost of construction, rights-of-way and land, legal, engineering, interest, and other expenses as needed. The borrower may use Form RD 440-11, “Estimate of Funds Needed for 30 Day Period Commencing XXX,” to show the amount of funds needed during the 30-day period.
(2) RUS loan funds obligated for a specific purpose, such as the paying of interest, but not needed at the time of loan closing will remain in the Finance Office until needed unless State statutes require all funds to be delivered to the borrower at the time of closing. Loan funds may be advanced to prepay costs under § 1780.9 (e)(2)(iv). If all funds must be delivered to the borrower at the time of closing to comply with State statutes, funds not needed at loan closing will be handled as follows:
(i) Deposited in an appropriate borrower account, such as debt service or construction accounts; or
(ii) Deposited in a joint bank account under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(c)
Grant closing.
RUS Bulletin 1780-12 “Water or Waste System Grant Agreement” of this part will be completed and executed in accordance with the requirements of grant approval. The grant will be considered closed when RUS Bulletin 1780-12 has been properly executed. Processing or approval officials are authorized to sign the grant agreement on behalf of RUS. For grants that supplement RUS loan funds, the grant should be closed simultaneously with the closing of the loan. However, when grant funds will be disbursed before loan closing, as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the grant will be closed not later than the delivery date of the first advance of grant funds.
(d)
Grant disbursements.
RUS policy is not to disburse grant funds from the Treasury until they are actually needed by the applicant. Applicant funds will be disbursed before the disbursal of any RUS grant funds. RUS loan funds will be disbursed before the disbursal of any RUS grant funds except when:
(1) Interim financing of the total estimated amount of loan funds needed during construction is arranged; and
(2) All interim funds have been disbursed; and
(3) RUS grant funds are needed before the RUS loan can be closed.
(e)
Use and accountability of funds.
(1) Arrangements will be agreed upon for the prior concurrence by the Agency of the bills or vouchers upon which warrants will be drawn. Form RD 402-2, “Statement of Deposits and Withdrawals,” or similar form will be used by the Agency to monitor funds. Periodic reviews of these accounts shall be made by the Agency.
(2)
Pledge of collateral for grants to nonprofit organizations.
Grant funds must be deposited in a bank with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance coverage. Also, if the balance in the account containing grant funds exceeds the FDIC insurance coverage, the excess amount must be collaterally secured. The pledge of collateral for the excess will be in accordance with Treasury Circular 176.
(3)
Joint RUS/borrower bank account.
RUS funds and any funds furnished by the borrower including contributions to purchase major items of equipment, machinery, and furnishings will be deposited in a joint RUS/borrower bank account if determined necessary by the approval official. When RUS has a Memorandum of Understanding with another agency that provides for the use of joint RUS/borrower accounts, or when RUS is the primary source of funds for a project and has determined that the use of a joint RUS/borrower bank account is necessary, project funds from other sources may also be deposited in the joint bank account. RUS shall not be accountable to the source of the other funds nor shall RUS undertake responsibility to administer the funding program of the other entity. Joint RUS/borrower bank accounts should not be used for funds advanced by an interim lender. When funds exceeds the FDIC insurance coverage, the excess must have a pledge of collateral in accordance with Treasury Circular 176.
(4)
Payment for project costs.
Project costs will be monitored by the RUS processing office. Invoices will be approved by the borrower and their engineer, as appropriate, and submitted to the processing office for concurrence. The review and acceptance of project costs, including construction pay estimates, by RUS does not attest to the correctness of the amounts, the quantities shown or that the work has been performed under the terms of the agreements or contracts.
(f)
Use of remaining funds.
Funds remaining after all costs incident to the basic project have been paid or provided for will not include applicant contributions. Funds remaining, may be considered in direct proportion to the amounts obtained from each source. Remaining funds will be handled as follows:
(1) Remaining funds may be used for eligible loan or grant purposes, provided the use will not result in major changes to the facility(s) and the purpose of the loan and grant remains the same;
(2) RUS loan funds that are not needed will be applied as an extra payment on the RUS indebtedness unless other disposition is required by the bond ordinance, resolution, or State statute; and
(3) Grant funds not expended under paragraph (f)(1) of this section will be canceled. Prior to the actual cancellation, the borrower, its attorney and its engineer will be notified of RUS's intent to cancel the remaining funds. The applicant will be given appropriate appeal rights.
(g)
Post review of loan closing.
In order to determine that the loan has been properly closed the loan docket will be reviewed by OGC. The State program official has the option to consult with OGC to obtain waivers of this review.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]
§ 1780.46
[Reserved]
§ 1780.47
Borrower accounting methods, management reporting and audits.
(a) Borrowers are required to provide RUS an annual audit or financial statements.
(b)
Method of accounting and preparation of financial statements.
Annual organization-wide financial statements
must be prepared on the accrual basis of accounting, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), unless State statutes or regulatory agencies provide otherwise, or an exception is granted by the Agency. An organization may maintain its accounting records on a basis other than accrual accounting, and make the necessary adjustments so that annual financial statements are presented on the accrual basis.
(c)
Record retention.
Each borrower shall retain all records, books, and supporting material for 3 years after the issuance of the audit or management reports. Upon request, this material will be made available to RUS, Office of the Inspector General (OIG), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Comptroller General, or to their assignees.
(d)
Audits.
All audits are to be performed in accordance with the latest revision of the generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS), issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. In addition, the audits are also to be performed in accordance with subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. The type of audit each borrower is required to submit will be designated by RUS. Further guidance on preparing an acceptable audit can be obtained from RUS. It is not intended that audits required by this part be separate and apart from audits performed in accordance with State and local laws. To the extent feasible, the audit work should be done in conjunction with those audits. Audits must be performed annually except as allowed under the provisions for biennial audits provided in subpart F of 2 CFR part 200. Audits are to be submitted to the processing office as soon as possible after receipt of the auditor's report but no later than nine months after the end of the audit period
(e)
Borrowers exempt from audits.
All borrowers who are exempt from audits, will, within 60 days following the end of each fiscal year, furnish the RUS with annual financial statements, consisting of a verification of the organization's balance sheet and statement of income and expense by an appropriate official of the organization. Forms RD 442-2, “Statement of Budget, Income and Equity,” and 442-3 may be used.
(f)
Management reports.
These reports will furnish management with a means of evaluating prior decisions and serve as a basis for planning future operations and financial strategies. In those cases where revenues from multiple sources are pledged as security for an RUS loan, two reports will be required; one for the project being financed by RUS and one combining the entire operation of the borrower. In those cases where RUS loans are secured by general obligation bonds or assessments and the borrower combines revenues from all sources, one management report combining all such revenues is acceptable. The following management data will be submitted by the borrower to the processing office. These reports at a minimum will include a balance sheet and income and expense statement.
(1)
Quarterly reports.
A quarterly management report will be required for the first year for new borrowers and for all borrowers experiencing financial or management problems for one year from the date problems were noted. If the borrower's account is current at the end of the year, the processing office may waive the required reports.
(2)
Annual management reports.
Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year the following will be submitted to the processing office. (If Form RD 442-2 is used as the annual management report, enter data in column three only of Schedule 1, and complete all of Schedule 2.)
(i) Two copies of the management reports and proposed “Annual Budget”.
(ii) Financial information may be reported on Form RD 442-2 which includes Schedule 1, “Statement of Budget, Income and Equity” and Schedule 2, “Projected Cash Flow” or information in similar format.
(iii) A copy of the rate schedule in effect at the time of submission.
(g)
Substitute for management reports.
When RUS loans are secured by the general obligation of the public body or tax assessments which total 100 percent of the debt service requirements, the State program official may authorize an annual audit to substitute for other management reports if the audit
is received within nine months after the end of the audit period.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 76006, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 1780.48
Regional commission grants.
Grants are sometimes made by regional commissions for projects eligible for RUS assistance. RUS has agreed to administer such funds in a manner similar to administering RUS assistance.
(a) When RUS has funds in the project, no charge will be made for administering regional commission funds.
(b) When RUS has no loan or grant funds in the project, an administrative charge will be made pursuant to the Economy Act of 1932 (31 U.C.S. 1535). A fee of 5 percent of the first $100,000 of a regional commission grant and 1 percent of any amount over $100,000 will be paid to RUS by the commission.
(1)
Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC).
RUS Bulletin 1780-23 will be followed in determining the responsibilities of RUS. The ARC Federal Co-chairman and the State program official will provide each other with the necessary notification and certification.
(2)
Other regional commissions.
Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3121
et seq.
) authorizes other commissions similar to ARC. RUS Bulletin 1780-23 will be used to develop a separate project management agreement between RUS and the commission for each project. The agreement should be prepared by the State program official as soon as notification is received that a commission grant will be made and the amount is confirmed.
(c) Regional commission grants should be obligated as soon as possible in accordance with § 1780.41, except that the announcement procedure referred to in RUS Staff Instruction 1780-2 is not applicable. Regional commission grants will be disbursed from the Finance Office in the same manner as RUS funds.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]
§§ 1780.49-1780.52
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Planning, Designing, Bidding, Contracting, Constructing and Inspections
§ 1780.53
General.
This subpart is specifically designed for use by owners including the professional or technical consultants or agents who provide assistance and services such as engineering, environmental, inspection, financial, legal or other services related to planning, designing, bidding, contracting, and constructing water and waste disposal facilities. These procedures do not relieve the owner of the contractual obligations that arise from the procurement of these services. For this subpart, an owner is defined as an applicant, borrower, or grantee.
§ 1780.54
Technical services.
Owners are responsible for providing the engineering, architect and environmental services necessary for planning, designing, bidding, contracting, inspecting, and constructing their facilities. Services may be provided by the owner's “in house” engineer or architect or through contract, subject to Agency concurrence. Engineers and architects must be licensed in the State where the facility is to be constructed.
§ 1780.55
Preliminary engineering reports and environmental review documentation.
Preliminary engineering reports (PERs) must conform to customary professional standards. PER guidelines for water, sanitary sewer, solid waste, and storm sewer are available from the Agency. Environmental review documentation must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
[81 FR 11028, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1780.56
[Reserved]
§ 1780.57
Design policies.
Facilities financed by the Agency will be designed and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices, and must meet the requirements of Federal, State and local agencies.
(a)
Environmental review.
Facilities financed by the Agency must undergo an environmental impact analysis in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and RUS procedures. Facility planning and design must not only be responsive to the owner's needs but must consider the environmental consequences of the proposed project. Facility design shall incorporate and integrate, where practicable, mitigation measures that avoid or minimize adverse environmental impacts. Environmental reviews serve as a means of assessing environmental impacts of project proposals, rather than justifying decisions already made. Applicants may not take any action on a project proposal that will have an adverse environmental impact or limit the choice of reasonable project alternatives being reviewed prior to the completion of the Agency's environmental review.
(b)
Architectural barriers.
All facilities intended for or accessible to the public or in which physically handicapped persons may be employed must be developed in compliance with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.
) as implemented by 41 CFR 101-19.6, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C 1474
et seq.
) as implemented by 7 CFR parts 15 and 15b, and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
).
(c)
Energy/environment.
Facility design should consider cost effective energy-efficient and environmentally-sound products and services.
(d)
Fire protection.
Water facilities should have sufficient capacity to provide reasonable fire protection to the extent practicable.
(e)
Growth capacity.
Facilities should have sufficient capacity to provide for reasonable growth to the extent practicable.
(f)
Water conservation.
Owners are encouraged, when economically feasible, to incorporate water conservation practices into a facility's design. For existing water systems, evidence must be provided showing that the distribution system water losses do not exceed reasonable levels.
(g)
Conformity with State drinking water standards.
No funds shall be made available under this part for a water system unless the Agency determines that the water system will make significant progress toward meeting the standards established under title XIV of the Public Health Service Act (commonly known as the ‘Safe Drinking Water Act’) (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
).
(h)
Conformity with Federal and State water pollution control standards.
No funds shall be made available under this part for a water treatment discharge or waste disposal system unless the Agency determines that the effluent from the system conforms with applicable Federal and State water pollution control standards.
(i)
Combined sewers.
New combined sanitary and storm water sewer facilities will not be financed by the Agency. Extensions to existing combined systems can only be financed when separate systems are impractical.
(j)
Dam safety.
Projects involving any artificial barrier which impounds or diverts water, or the rehabilitation or improvement of such a barrier, must comply with the provisions for dam safety as set forth in the Federal Guidelines for Dam Safety (Government Printing Office stock No. 041-001-00187-5, Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954) as prepared by the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering and Technology.
(k)
Pipe.
All pipe used shall meet current American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) or American Water Works Association (AWWA) standards.
(l)
Water system testing.
For new water systems or extensions to existing water systems, leakage shall not exceed limits set by either ASTM or AWWA whichever is the more stringent.
(m)
Metering devices.
Water facilities financed by the Agency will have metering devices for each connection. An exception to this requirement may be granted by the State program official when the owner demonstrates that installation of metering devices would be a significant economic detriment and that environmental considerations would not be adversely affected by not installing such devices. Sanitary sewer
projects should incorporate water system metering devices whenever practicable.
(n)
Economical service.
The facility's design must provide the most economical service practicable.
(o)
Seismic safety.
All new structures, fully or partially enclosed, used or intended for sheltering persons or property will be designed with appropriate seismic safety provisions in compliance with the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
), and Executive Order 12699, Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted or Regulated New Building Construction (3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 269). Designs of components essential for system operation and substantial rehabilitation of structures that are used for sheltering persons or property should incorporate seismic safety provisions to the extent practicable. RUS implementing regulations for seismic safety are in 7 CFR part 1972, subpart C.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68655, Dec. 11, 1998; 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]
§§ 1780.58-1780.60
[Reserved]
§ 1780.61
Construction contracts.
Contract documents must be sufficiently descriptive and legally binding in order to accomplish the work as economically and expeditiously as possible.
(a)
Standard construction contract documents.
If the construction contract documents utilized are not in the format previously approved by the Agency, OGC's review of the construction contract documents will be obtained prior to their use.
(b)
Contract review and concurrence.
The owner's attorney will review the executed contract documents, including performance and payment bonds, and will certify that they are adequate, and that the persons executing these documents have been properly authorized to do so. The contract documents, engineer's recommendation for award, and bid tabulation sheets will be forwarded to the Agency for concurrence prior to awarding the contract. All contracts will contain a provision that they are not effective until they have been concurred in by the Agency. The State program official or designee is responsible for concurring in construction contracts with the legal advice and guidance of the OGC when necessary.
§ 1780.62
Utility purchase contracts.
Applicants proposing to purchase water or other utility service from private or public sources shall have written contracts for supply or service which are reviewed and concurred in by the Agency. To the extent practical, the Agency review and concurrence of such contracts should take place prior to their execution by the owner. OGC advice and guidance may be requested. Form RD 442-30, “Water Purchase Contract,” may be used when appropriate. If the Agency loan will be repaid from system revenues, the contract will be pledged to the Agency as part of the security for the loan. Such contracts will:
(a) Include a commitment by the supplier to furnish, at a specified point, an adequate quantity of water or other service and provide that, in case of shortages, all of the supplier's users will proportionately share shortages.
(b) Set out the ownership and maintenance responsibilities of the respective parties including the master meter if a meter is installed at the point of delivery.
(c) Specify the initial rates and provide a type of escalator clause which will permit rates for the association to be raised or lowered proportionately as certain specified rates for the supplier's regular customers are raised or lowered. Provisions may be made for altering rates in accordance with the decisions of the appropriate State agency which may have regulatory authority.
(d) Cover period of time which is at least equal to the repayment period of the loan. State program officials may approve contracts for shorter periods of time if the supplier cannot legally contract for such period, or if the owner and supplier find it impossible or impractical to negotiate a contract for the maximum period permissible under State law, provided:
(1) The supplier is subject to regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission or other Federal or State agency whose jurisdiction can be expected to prevent unwarranted curtailment of supply; or
(2) The contract contains adequate provisions for renewal; or
(3) A determination is made that in the event the contract is terminated, there are or will be other adequate sources available to the owner that can feasibly be developed or purchased.
(e) Set out in detail the amount of connection or demand charges, if any, to be made by the supplier as a condition to making the service available to the owner. However, the payment of such charges from loan funds shall not be approved unless the Agency determines that it is more feasible and economical for the owner to pay such a connection charge than it is for the owner to provide the necessary supply by other means.
(f) Provide for a pledge of the contract to the Agency as part of the security for the loan.
(g) Not contain provisions for:
(1) Construction of facilities which will be owned by the supplier. This does not preclude the use of money paid as a connection charge for construction to be done by the supplier.
(2) Options for the future sale or transfer. This does not preclude an agreement recognizing that the supplier and owner may at some future date agree to a sale of all or a portion of the facility.
(h) If it is impossible to obtain a firm commitment for either an adequate quantity or sharing shortages proportionately, a contract may be executed and concurred in provided adequate evidence is furnished to enable the Agency to make a determination that the supplier has adequate supply and/or treatment facilities to furnish its other users and the applicant for the foreseeable future; and:
(1) The supplier is subject to regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or other Federal or State agency whose jurisdiction can be expected to prevent unwarranted curtailment of supply; or
(2) A suitable alternative supply could be arranged within the repayment ability of the borrower if it should become necessary; or
(3) Concurrence in the proposed contract is obtained from the National Office.
§ 1780.63
Sewage treatment and bulk water sales contracts.
Owners entering into agreements with private or public parties to treat sewage or supply bulk water shall have written contracts for such service and all such contracts shall be subject to the Agency concurrence. Section 1780.62 should be used as a guide to prepare such contracts.
§§ 1780.64-1780.66
[Reserved]
§ 1780.67
Performing construction.
Owners are encouraged to accomplish construction through contracts with qualified contractors. Owners may accomplish construction by using their own personnel and equipment provided the owners possess the necessary skills, abilities and resources to perform the work and provided a licensed engineer prepares design drawings and specifications and inspects construction and furnishes inspection reports as required by § 1780.76. Inspection services may be provided by individuals as approved by the State staff engineer. Payments for construction will be handled under § 1780.76(e).
§ 1780.68
Owner's contractual responsibility.
This part does not relieve the owner of any responsibilities under its contract. The owner is responsible for the settlement of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurement entered into in support of a loan or grant. These include, but are not limited to: source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims. Matters concerning violation of laws are to be referred to the applicable local, State, or Federal authority.
§ 1780.69
[Reserved]
§ 1780.70
Owner's procurement regulations.
Owner's procurement requirements must comply with the following standards:
(a)
Code of conduct.
Owners shall maintain a written code or standards
of conduct which shall govern the performance of their officers, employees or agents engaged in the award and administration of contracts supported by Agency funds. No employee, officer or agent of the owner shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by Agency funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. Examples of such conflicts would arise when: the employee, officer or agent; any member of their immediate family; their partner; or an organization which employs, or is about to employ, any of the above; has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for the award.
(1) The owner's officers, employees or agents shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, or parties to subagreements.
(2) To the extent permitted by State or local law or regulations, the owner's standards of conduct shall provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for violations of such standards by the owner's officers, employees, agents, or by contractors or their agents.
(b)
Maximum open and free competition.
All procurement transactions, regardless of whether by sealed bids or by negotiation and without regard to dollar value, shall be conducted in a manner that provides maximum open and free competition. Procurement procedures shall not restrict or eliminate competition. Examples of what are considered to be restrictive of competition include, but are not limited to: placing unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to qualify to do business; noncompetitive practices between firms; organizational conflicts of interest; and unnecessary experience and bonding requirements. In specifying materials, the owner and its consultant will consider all materials normally suitable for the project commensurate with sound engineering practices and project requirements. The Agency shall consider fully any recommendation made by the owner concerning the technical design and choice of materials to be used for a facility. If the Agency determines that a design or material, other than those that were recommended should be considered by including them in the procurement process as an acceptable design or material in the water or waste disposal facility, the Agency shall provide such owner with a comprehensive justification for such a determination. The justification will be documented in writing.
(c)
Owner's review.
Proposed procurement actions shall be reviewed by the owner's officials to avoid the purchase of unnecessary or duplicate items. Consideration should be given to consolidation or separation of procurement items to obtain a more economical purchase. Where appropriate, an analysis shall be made of lease versus purchase alternatives, and any other appropriate analysis to determine which approach would be the most economical. To foster greater economy and efficiency, owners are encouraged to enter into State and local intergovernmental agreements for procurement or use of common goods and services.
(d) Solicitation of offers, whether by competitive sealed bid or competitive negotiation, shall:
(1) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product or service to be procured. When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements, a “brand name or equal” description may be used to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. The specific feature of the name brands which must be met by the offeror shall be clearly stated; and
(2) Clearly specify all requirements which offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
(e) Affirmative steps should be taken to assure that small, minority, and women businesses are utilized when possible as sources of supplies, equipment, construction and services.
(f)
Contract pricing.
Cost plus a percentage of cost method of contracting shall not be used.
(g)
Unacceptable bidders.
The following will not be allowed to bid on, or negotiate for, a contract or subcontract related to the construction of the project:
(1) An engineer as an individual or firm who has prepared plans and specifications or who will be responsible for monitoring the construction;
(2) Any firm or corporation in which the owner's engineer is an officer, employee, or holds or controls a substantial interest;
(3) The governing body's officers, employees, or agents;
(4) Any member of the immediate family or partners in the entities referred to in paragraphs (g)(1), (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section; or
(5) An organization which employs, or is about to employ, any person in the entities referred to in paragraphs (g)(1), (g)(2), (g)(3) or (g)(4) of this section.
(h)
Contract award.
Contracts shall be made only with responsible parties possessing the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed procurement. Consideration shall include but not be limited to matters such as integrity, record of past performance, financial and technical resources, and accessibility to other necessary resources. Contracts shall not be made with parties who are suspended or debarred by any Agency of the United States Government.
§ 1780.71
[Reserved]
§ 1780.72
Procurement methods.
Procurement shall be made by one of the following methods and in accordance with requirements of 2 CFR 200.320: Micro-purchases, procurement by small purchase procedures, procurement by sealed bids (formal advertising), procurement by competitive proposals, or procurement by noncompetitive proposals. The sealed bid method is the preferred method for procuring construction.
[81 FR 47689, July 22, 2016]
§ 1780.73
[Reserved]
§ 1780.74
Contracts awarded prior to applications.
Owners awarding construction or other procurement contracts prior to filing an application, must provide evidence that is satisfactory to the Agency that the contract was entered into without intent to circumvent the requirements of Agency regulations.
(a)
Modifications.
The contract shall be modified to conform with the provisions of this part. Where this is not possible, modifications will be made to the extent practicable and, as a minimum, the contract must comply with all State and local laws and regulations as well as statutory requirements and executive orders related to the Agency financing. When all construction is complete and it is impracticable to modify the contracts, the owner must provide the certification required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Consultant's certification.
Provide a certification by an engineer, licensed in the State where the facility is constructed, that any construction performed complies fully with the plans and specifications.
(c)
Owner's certification.
Provide a certification by the owner that the contractor has complied with applicable statutory and executive requirements related to Agency financing for construction already performed.
§ 1780.75
Contract provisions.
In addition to provisions required for a valid and legally binding contract, any recipient of Agency funds shall include the following contract provisions in all contracts.
(a)
Remedies.
Contracts for more than the Simplified Acquisition Threshold shall contain provisions or conditions which will allow for administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors violate or breach contract terms, and provide for such sanctions and penalties as may be appropriate. A realistic liquidated damage provision should be included in all contracts for construction.
(b)
Termination.
All contracts exceeding $10,000, shall contain suitable provisions for termination by the owner including the manner by which it will be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such contracts shall describe conditions under which the contract may be terminated for default as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor.
(c)
Surety.
In all contracts for construction or facility improvements exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold, the owner shall require bonds or cash deposit in escrow assuring performance and payment each in the amount of 100 percent of the contract cost. The surety will be in the form of performance bonds and payment bonds. For contracts of lesser amounts, the owner may require surety. When a surety is not provided, contractors will furnish evidence of payment in full for all materials, labor, and any other items procured under the contract. Form RD 1924-10, “Release by Claimants,” and Form RD 1924-9, “Certificate of Contractor's Release,” may be used for this purpose. Companies providing performance bonds and payment bonds must hold a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds as listed in Treasury Circular 570 as amended and the surety must be listed as having a license to do business in the State where the facility is located.
(d)
Equal employment opportunity.
All contracts awarded in excess of $10,000 by owners shall contain a provision requiring compliance with Executive Order 11246 (3 CFR, 1966 Comp., p.339), entitled, “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by Executive Order 11375 (3 CFR, 1968 Comp., p. 321), and as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations 41 CFR chapter 60.
(e)
Anti-kickback.
All contracts for construction shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (18 U.S.C. 874). This Act provides that each contractor shall be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any part of the compensation to which they are otherwise entitled. The owner shall report suspected or reported violations to the Agency.
(f)-(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Change orders.
The construction contract shall require that all contract change orders be concurred in by the Agency.
(i)
Agency concurrence.
All contracts must contain a provision that they shall not be effective unless and until the State program official or designee concurs in writing.
(j)
Retainage.
All construction contracts shall contain adequate provisions for retainage. No payments will be made that would deplete the retainage nor place in escrow any funds that are required for retainage nor invest the retainage for the benefit of the contractor. The retainage shall not be less than an amount equal to 5 percent of an approved partial payment estimate until the project is substantially complete and accepted by the owner, consulting engineer and Agency. The contract must provide that additional amounts may be retained if the job is not proceeding satisfactorily.
(k)
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251-1388).
Contracts and subgrants of amounts in excess of $150,000 must contain a provision that requires the contractor to agree to comply with all applicable standards, orders or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251-1387). Violations must be reported to the Federal awarding agency and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
(l)
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 3701-3708).
Where applicable, all contracts awarded by the non-Federal entity in excess of $100,000 that involve the employment of mechanics or laborers must include a provision for compliance with 40 U.S.C. 3702 and 3704, as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). Under 40 U.S.C. 3702, each contractor must be required to compute the wages of every mechanic and laborer on the basis of a standard work week of 40 hours. Work in excess of the standard work week is permissible provided that the worker is compensated at a rate of not less than one and a half times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in the work week. The requirements of 40 U.S.C. 3704 are applicable to construction work and provide that no laborer or mechanic must be required to work
in surroundings or under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous. These requirements do not apply to the purchases of supplies or materials or articles ordinarily available on the open market.
(m)
Debarment and suspension.
A contract award (see 2 CFR 180.220) must not be made to parties listed on the governmentwide exclusions in the System for Award Management (SAM), in accordance with the OMB guidelines at 2 CFR part 180, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 417, “Debarment and Suspension.” SAM exclusion records contain the names of parties debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded by agencies, as well as parties declared ineligible under statutory or regulatory authority other than Executive Order 12549.
(n)
Byrd anti-lobbying amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352).
Contractors that apply or bid for an award exceeding $100,000 must file the required certification. Each tier certifies to the tier above that it will not and has not used Federal appropriated funds to pay any person or organization for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with obtaining any Federal contract, grant or any other award covered by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Each tier must also disclose any lobbying with non-Federal funds that takes place in connection with obtaining any Federal award. Such disclosures are forwarded from tier to tier up to the non-Federal award.
(o)
Procurement of recovered materials.
A public body, such as a state government, state agency, municipality, county, district, authority, or other political subdivision of a state, territory or commonwealth, must ensure its contracts include provisions requiring compliance with section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The requirements of Section 6002 include procuring only items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the value of the quantity acquired during the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000; procuring solid waste management services in a manner that maximizes energy and resource recovery; and establishing an affirmative procurement program for procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA guidelines.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 7697, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 1780.76
Contract administration.
Owners shall be responsible for maintaining a contract administration system to monitor the contractors' performance and compliance with the terms, conditions, and specifications of the contracts.
(a)
Preconstruction conference.
Prior to beginning construction, the owner will schedule a preconstruction conference where the consulting engineer will review the planned development with the Agency, owner, resident inspector, attorney, contractor, and other interested parties. The conference will thoroughly cover applicable items included in Form RD 1924-16, “Record of Pre-construction Conference,” and the discussions and agreements will be documented.
(b)
Monitoring reports.
The owner is required to monitor construction and provide a report to the Agency giving a full explanation under the following circumstances:
(1) Reasons why approved construction schedules were not met;
(2) Analysis and explanation of cost overruns and how payment is to be made for the same; and
(3) If events occur which have a significant impact upon the project.
(c)
Inspection.
Full-time resident inspection is required for all construction unless a written exception is made by the Agency upon written request of the owner. Unless otherwise agreed, the resident inspector will be provided by the consulting engineer. Prior to the preconstruction conference, the consulting engineer will submit a resume of qualifications of the resident inspector to the owner and to the Agency for acceptance in writing. If
the owner provides the resident inspector, it must submit a resume of the inspector's qualifications to the project engineer for comments and the Agency for acceptance in writing prior to the preconstruction conference. The resident inspector will work under the technical supervision of the project engineer and the role and responsibilities will be defined in writing.
(d)
Inspector's daily diary.
The resident inspector will maintain a record of the daily construction progress in the form of a daily diary and daily inspection reports. The daily entries shall be made available to the Agency personnel and will be reviewed during project inspections. The original complete set will be furnished to the owner upon completion of construction. RUS Bulletin 1780-18 is available from the Agency for preparing daily inspection reports or the reports can be provided in other formats approved by the State staff engineer.
(e)
Payment for Construction.
Form RD 1924-18, “Partial Payment Estimate,” or other similar form may be used for construction payments. If Form 1924-18 is not used, prior concurrence by the State staff engineer must be obtained.
(1) Payment of contract retainage will not be made until such retainage is due and payable under the terms of the contact.
(2) Invoices for the payment of construction costs must be approved by the owner, project engineer and concurred in by the Agency.
(3) The review and acceptance of project costs, including construction payment estimates by the Agency shall not attest to the correctness of the amounts, the quantities shown, or that the work has been performed under the terms of agreements or contracts.
(f)
Prefinal inspections.
A prefinal inspection will be made by the owner, resident inspector, project engineer, contractor, representatives of other agencies involved, and Agency representative (preferably the State staff engineer or designee). The inspection results will be recorded by the project engineer and a copy provided to all interested parties.
(g)
Final inspection.
A final inspection will be made by the Agency before final payment is made.
(h)
Changes in development plans.
(1) Changes in development plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Agency provided:
(i) Funds are available to cover any additional costs; and
(ii) The change is for an authorized loan or grant purpose; and
(iii) It will not adversely affect the soundness of the facility operation or the Agency's security; and
(iv) The change is within the scope of the contract,
(2) Changes will be recorded on Form RD 1924-7, “Contract Change Order,” or other similar form if approved by the State program official or designee. Regardless of the form, change orders must be approved by the State program official or designee.
(3) Changes should be accomplished only after Agency approval and shall be authorized only by means of contract change order. The change order will include items such as:
(i) Any changes in labor and material;
(ii) Changes in facility design;
(iii) Any decrease or increase in quantities based on final measurements that are different from those shown in the bidding schedule; and
(iv) Any increase or decrease in the time to complete the project.
(4) All changes shall be recorded on chronologically numbered contract change orders as they occur. Change orders will not be included in payment estimates until approved by all parties.
§§ 1780.77-1780.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Information Pertaining to Preparation of Notes or Bonds and Bond Transcript Documents for Public Body Applicants
§ 1780.80
General.
This subpart includes information for use by public body applicants in the preparation and issuance of evidence of debt (bonds, notes, or debt instruments, referred to as bonds in this subpart) and other necessary loan documents.
§ 1780.81
Policies related to use of bond counsel.
The applicant is responsible for preparation of bonds and bond transcript documents. The applicant will obtain the services and opinion of recognized bond counsel experienced in municipal financing with respect to the validity of a bond issue, except for issues of $100,000 or less. With prior approval of the approval official, the applicant may elect not to use bond counsel. Such issues will be closed in accordance with the following:
(a) The applicant must recognize and accept the fact that application processing may require additional legal and administrative time;
(b) It must be established that not using bond counsel will produce significant savings in total legal costs;
(c) The local attorney must be able and experienced in handling this type of legal work;
(d) The applicant must understand that it will likely have to obtain an opinion from bond counsel at its expense should the Agency require refinancing of the debt;
(e) Bonds will be prepared in accordance with this regulation and conform as closely as possible to the preferred methods of preparation stated in § 1780.94; and
(f) Closing instructions must be issued by OGC.
§ 1780.82
[Reserved]
§ 1780.83
Bond transcript documents.
Any questions relating to Agency requirements should be discussed with Agency representatives. Bond counsel or local counsel, as appropriate, must furnish at least two complete sets of the following to the applicant, who will furnish one complete set to the Agency:
(a) Copies of all organizational documents;
(b) Copies of general incumbency certificate;
(c) Certified copies of minutes or excerpts from all meetings of the governing body at which action was taken in connection with the authorizing and issuing of the bonds;
(d) Certified copies of documents evidencing that the applicant has complied fully with all statutory requirements incident to calling and holding a favorable bond election, if one is necessary;
(e) Certified copies of the resolutions, ordinances, or other documents such as the bond authorizing resolutions or ordinances and any resolution establishing rates and regulating use of facility, if such documents are not included in the minutes furnished;
(f) Copies of the official Notice of Sale and the affidavit of publication of the Notice of Sale when State statute requires a public sale;
(g) Specimen bond, with any attached coupons;
(h) Attorney's no-litigation certificate;
(i) Certified copies of resolutions or other documents pertaining to the bond award;
(j) Any additional or supporting documents required by bond counsel;
(k) For loans involving multiple advances of Agency loan funds, a preliminary approving opinion of bond counsel (or local counsel if no bond counsel is involved) if a final unqualified opinion cannot be obtained until all funds are advanced. The preliminary opinion for the entire issue shall be delivered at or before the time of the first advance of funds. It will state that the applicant has the legal authority to issue the bonds, construct, operate and maintain the facility, and repay the loan, subject only to changes occurring during the advance of funds, such as litigation resulting from the failure to advance loan funds, and receipt of closing certificates;
(l) Final unqualified approving opinion of bond counsel, (and preliminary approving opinion, if required) or local counsel if no bond counsel is involved, including an opinion as to whether interest on bonds will be exempt from Federal and State income taxes. With approval of the State program official, a final opinion may be qualified to the extent that litigation is pending relating to Indian claims that may affect title to land or validity of the obligation. It is permissible for such opinion to contain language referring to the last sentence of section 306 (a)(1) or to section 309A (h) of the Consolidated
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 (a)(1) or 1929a (h)).
§§ 1780.84-1780.86
[Reserved]
§ 1780.87
Permanent instruments for Agency loans.
Agency loans will be evidenced by an instrument determined legally sufficient and in accordance with the following order of preference:
(a)
First preference—Form RD 440-22, “Promissory Note”.
Refer to paragraph (b) of this section for methods of various frequency payment calculations.
(b)
Second preference—single instruments with amortized installments.
A single instrument providing for amortized installments which follows Form RD 440-22 as closely as possible. The full amount of the loan must show on the face of the instrument, and there must be provisions for entering the date and amount of each advance on the reverse or an attachment. When principal payments are deferred, the instrument will show that “interest only” is due on interest-only installment dates, rather than specific dollar amounts. The payment period including the “interest only” installment cannot exceed 40 years, the useful life of the facility, or State statute limitations, whichever occurs first. The amortized installment, computed as follows, will be shown as due on installment dates thereafter.
(1)
Monthly payments.
Multiply by twelve the number of years between the due date of the last interest-only installment and the final installment to determine the number of monthly payments. When there are no interest-only installments, multiply by twelve the number of years over which the loan is amortized. Then multiply the loan amount by the amortization factor and round to the next higher dollar.
(2)
Semiannual payments.
Multiply by two the number of years between the due date of the last interest-only installment and the due date of the final installment to determine the correct number of semiannual periods. When there are no interest-only installments, multiply by two the number of years over which the loan is amortized. Then multiply the loan amount by the applicable amortization factor.
(3)
Annual payments.
Subtract the due date of the last interest-only installment from the due date of the final installment to determine the number of annual payments. When there are no interest-only installments, the number of annual payments will equal the number of years over which the loan is amortized. Then multiply the loan amount by the applicable amortization factor and round to the next higher dollar.
(c)
Third preference—single instruments with installments of principal plus interest.
If a single instrument with amortized installments is not legally permissible, use a single instrument providing for installments of principal plus interest accrued on the principal balance. For bonds with semiannual interest and annual principal, the interest is calculated by multiplying the principal balance times the interest rate and dividing this figure by two. Principal installments are to be scheduled so that total combined interest and principal payments closely approximate amortized payments.
(1) The repayment terms concerning interest only installments described in paragraph (b) of this section apply.
(2) The instrument shall contain in substance provisions indicating:
(i) Principal maturities and due dates;
(ii) Regular payments shall be applied first to interest due through the next principal and interest installment due date and then to principal due in chronological order stipulated in the bond; and
(iii) Payments on delinquent accounts will be applied in the following sequence:
(A) Billed delinquent interest;
(B) Past due interest installments;
(C) Past due principal installments;
(D) Interest installment due; and
(E) Principal installment due.
(d)
Fourth preference—serial bonds with installments of principal plus interest.
If instruments described under the first, second, and third preferences are not legally permissible, use serial bonds with a bond or bonds delivered in the amount of each advance. Bonds will be numbered consecutively and delivered in chronological order. Such bonds
will conform to the minimum requirements of § 1780.94. Provisions for application of payments will be the same as those set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(e)
Coupon bonds.
Coupon bonds will not be used unless required by State statute. Such bonds will conform to the minimum requirements of § 1780.94.
§ 1780.88
[Reserved]
§ 1780.89
Multiple advances of Agency funds using permanent instruments.
Where interim financing from commercial sources is not used, Agency loan proceeds will be disbursed on an “as needed by borrower” basis in amounts not to exceed the amount needed during 30-day periods.
§ 1780.90
Multiple advances of Agency funds using temporary debt instruments.
When none of the instruments described in § 1780.87 are legally permissible or practical, a bond anticipation note or similar temporary debt instrument may be used. The debt instrument will provide for multiple advances of Agency funds and will be for the full amount of the Agency loan. The instrument will be prepared by bond counsel, or local counsel if bond counsel is not involved, and approved by the State program official and OGC. At the same time the Agency delivers the last advance, the borrower will deliver the permanent bond instrument and the canceled temporary instrument will be returned to the borrower. The approved debt instrument will show at least the following:
(a) The date from which each advance will bear interest;
(b) The interest rate as determined by § 1780.13;
(c) A payment schedule providing for interest on outstanding principal at least annually; and
(d) A maturity date which shall be no earlier than the anticipated issuance date of the permanent instruments and no longer than the 40-year statutory limit.
§§ 1780.91-1780.93
[Reserved]
§ 1780.94
Minimum bond specifications.
The provisions of this section are minimum specifications only and must be followed to the extent legally permissible.
(a)
Type and denominations.
Bond resolutions or ordinances will provide that the instruments be either a bond representing the total amount of the indebtedness or serial bonds in denominations customarily accepted in municipal financing (ordinarily in multiples of not less than $1,000). Single bonds may provide for repayment of principal plus interest or amortized installments. Amortized installments are preferred by the Agency.
(b)
Bond registration.
Bonds will contain provisions permitting registration for both principal and interest. Bonds purchased by the Agency will be registered in the name of “United States of America” and will remain so registered at all times while the bonds are held or insured by the Government. The Agency address for registration purposes will be that of the Finance Office.
(c)
Size and quality.
Size of bonds and coupons should conform to standard practice. Paper must be of sufficient quality to prevent deterioration through ordinary handling over the life of the loan.
(d)
Date of bond.
Bonds will normally be dated as of the day of delivery. However, the borrower may use another date if approved by the Agency. Loan closing is the date of delivery of the bonds or the date of delivery of the first bond when utilizing serial bonds, regardless of the date of delivery of the funds. The date of delivery will be stated in the bond if different from the date of the bond. In all cases, interest will accrue from the date of delivery of the funds.
(e)
Payment date.
Loan payments will be scheduled to coincide with income availability and be in accordance with State law.
(1) If income is available monthly, monthly payments are recommended unless precluded by State law. If income is available quarterly or otherwise more frequently than annually,
payments must be scheduled on such basis. However, if State law only permits principal plus interest (P
I) type bonds, annual or semiannual payments will be used.
(2) The payment schedule will be enumerated in the evidence of debt, or if that is not feasible, in a supplemental agreement.
(3) If feasible, the first payment will be scheduled one full month, or other period, as appropriate, from the date of loan closing or any deferment period. Due dates falling on the 29th, 30th, and 31st day of the month will be avoided. When principal payments are deferred, interest-only payments will be scheduled at least annually.
(f)
Extra payments.
Extra payments are derived from the sale of basic chattel or real estate security, refund of unused loan funds, cash proceeds of property insurance and similar actions which reduce the value of basic security. At the option of the borrower, regular facility revenue may also be used as extra payments when regular payments are current. Unless otherwise established in the note or bond, extra payments will be applied as follows:
(1) For loans with amortized debt instruments, extra payments will be applied first to interest accrued to the date of receipt of the payment and second to principal.
(2) For loans with debt instruments with P
I installments, the extra payment will be applied to the final unpaid principal installment.
(3) For borrowers with more than one loan, the extra payment will be applied to the account secured by the lowest priority of lien on the property from which the extra payments was obtained. Any balance will be applied to other Agency loans secured by the property from which the extra payment was obtained.
(4) For assessment bonds, see paragraph (k) of this section.
(g) The place of payments on bonds purchased by the Agency will be determined by the Agency.
(h)
Redemptions.
Bonds will normally contain customary redemption provisions. However, no premium will be charged for early redemption on any bonds held by the Government.
(i)
Additional revenue bonds.
Parity bonds may be issued to complete the project. Otherwise, parity bonds may not be issued unless acceptable documentation is provided establishing that net revenues for the fiscal year following the year in which such bonds are to be issued will be at least 120 percent of the average annual debt serviced requirements on all bonds outstanding, including the newly-issued bonds. For purposes of this section, net revenues are, unless otherwise defined by State statute, gross revenues less essential operation and maintenance expenses. This limitation may be waived or modified by the written consent of bondholders representing 75 percent of the then-outstanding principal indebtedness. Junior and subordinate bonds may be issued in accordance with the loan resolution.
(j)
Precautions.
The following types of provisions in debt instruments should be avoided:
(1) Provisions for the holder to manually post each payment to the instrument.
(2) Provisions for returning the permanent or temporary debt instrument to the borrower in order that it, rather than the Agency, may post the date and amount of each advance or repayment on the instrument.
(3) Provisions that amend covenants contained in RUS Bulletins 1780-27 or 1780-28.
(4) Defeasance provisions in loan or bond resolutions. When a bond issue is defeased, a new issue is sold which supersedes the contractual provisions of the prior issue, including the refinancing requirement and any lien on revenues. Since defeasance in effect precludes the Agency from requiring refinancing before the final maturity date, it represents a violation of the statutory refinancing requirement; therefore, it is disallowed. No loan documents shall include a provision of defeasance.
(k)
Assessment bonds.
When security includes special assessment to be collected over the life of the loan, the instrument should address the method of applying any payments made before they are due. It may be desirable for such payments to be distributed over remaining payments due, rather than
to be applied in accordance with normal procedures governing extra payments, so that the account does not become delinquent.
(l)
Multiple debt instruments.
The following will be adhered to when preparing debt instruments:
(1) When more than one loan type is used in financing a project, each type of loan will be evidenced by a separate debt instrument or series of debt instruments;
(2) Loans obligated in different fiscal years and those obligated with different terms in the same fiscal year will be evidenced by separate debt instruments;
(3) Loans obligated for the same loan type in the same fiscal year with the same term may be combined in the same debt instrument;
(4) Loans obligated in the same fiscal year with different interest rates that will be closed at the same interest rate may be combined in the same debt instrument.
[62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29947, June 4, 1999]
§ 1780.95
Public bidding on bonds.
Bonds offered for public sale shall be offered in accordance with State law and in such a manner to encourage public bidding. The Agency will not submit a bid at the advertised sale unless required by State law, nor will reference to Agency's rates and terms be included. If no acceptable bid is received, the Agency will negotiate the purchase of the bonds.
§§ 1780.96-1780.100
[Reserved]
Pt. 1781

# PART 1781—RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT (RCD) LOANS AND WATERSHED (WS) LOANS AND ADVANCES
Sec.
1781.1
Purpose.
1781.2
Policy.
1781.3
Authorities, responsibilities, and delegation of authority.
1781.4
Definitions.
1781.5
Eligibility.
1781.6
Loan purposes.
1781.7
Loan and advance limitations and obligations incurred before loan closing.
1781.8
Rates and terms—WS loans and WS advances and RCD loans.
1781.9
Security, feasibility, evidence of debt, title, insurance, and other requirements.
1781.10
[Reserved]
1781.11
Other considerations.
1781.12
Preapplication and application processing.
1781.13
[Reserved]
1781.14
Planning, options, and appraisals.
1781.15
Planning and performing development.
1781.16
[Reserved]
1781.17
Docket preparation and processing.
1781.18
Feasibility.
1781.19
Approval, closing, and cancellation.
1781.20
Disbursement of WS and RCD loan funds and WS advance funds.
1781.21
Borrower accounting methods, management, reporting, and audits.
1781.22
Subsequent loans.
1781.23
Servicing.
1781.24
State supplements and availability of bulletins, instructions, forms, and memorandums.
1781.25-1781.100
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 16 U.S.C. 1005.

# Source:
62 FR 33500, June 19, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1781.1
Purpose.
This part prescribes the policies and procedures for making:
(a) Watershed (WS) loans and Watershed (WS) advances for works of improvement in a watershed project; and
(b) Resource Conservation and Development (RCD) loans for measures or projects needed to implement the RCD area plan to achieve objectives in an RCD area.
§ 1781.2
Policy.
(a) Rural Utilities Service (RUS), is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to section 232 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178). Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to section 232 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to the Soil Conservation Service. RUS will make WS and RCD loans available to sponsoring local public bodies, agencies, and nonprofit organizations to assist them in obtaining the local cost of WS works of improvement and RCD measures. Any
processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this part involving authorized assistance to RUS employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this title. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with an RUS employee. RUS will assist the local sponsors and the NRCS in making loans from NRCS construction funds as WS advances when needed for the development of future water supplies or for site preservation.
(b) Rural Development State and local offices will administer these programs on behalf of RUS and will coordinate application processing with the NRCS and other appropriate State and Federal agencies.
[62 FR 33500, June 19, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 9864, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1781.3
Authorities, responsibilities, and delegation of authority.
(a) NRCS provides technical and financial assistance to sponsoring local organizations for developing WS and RCD area plans and for individual RCD measures or projects and watershed works of improvement. The watershed work plan for developing, operating, and maintaining watershed works of improvement must be agreed upon by sponsoring local organizations and NRCS. When approved, it is the basis for extending technical and cost sharing assistance from watershed funds. The RCD area plan is prepared for the development of the RCD area by sponsoring local organizations with assistance from NRCS and other agencies, endorsed by the Governor or by the agency designated by the Governor, and accepted by the Secretary of Agriculture or his delegate. It includes objectives, planned courses of action, and RCD measures or projects to be developed. It is amended as necessary to include continuing activities and needs in the RCD area.
(b) RUS receives and processes applications for WS loans and NRCS WS advances and RCD loans and makes and services such loan and advances. WS loans are made by RUS from either Public Law 534 (78th Cong.) funds authorized in the Flood Control Act of 1944 (33 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
) or Public Law 566 (83rd Cong.) funds authorized in the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 666) to cover a part or all of the local cost for a watershed work of improvement.
(c) WS loans and WS advances may be made to project sponsors in watershed project areas for which:
(1) A watershed work plan has been approved administratively or by resolutions adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Senate and by the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives; and
(2) Federal assistance has been authorized for the installation of works of improvement by the Administrator of NRCS.
(d) RCD loans may be made in areas authorized for RCD program assistance by the Secretary of Agriculture and for which an RCD plan design or area plan has been accepted by the State NRCS Conservationist.
(e)
Delegation of authority.
The Rural Development State Director is authorized to approve WS and RCD loans subject to limitations in RUS Staff Instruction 1780-1 and conditions of this part. The Rural Development State Director is authorized to relegate authority in accordance with this part to the Chief, Community Programs; or other members of the State Office staff.
(f) NRCS is responsible for providing technical and financial assistance to sponsoring local organizations for planning and developing WS and RCD areas. This includes development of WS and RCD plans and WS works of improvement and RCD measures or projects.
(g) RUS is responsible for making and servicing WS loans and advances and RCD loans.
(h) The NRCS-RUS Agreements in RUS Bulletin's 1781 and 1781-2 include further responsibilities and functions of NRCS and RUS in WS and RCD areas.
§ 1781.4
Definitions.
(a)
Watershed (WS) project.
An authorized area in which watershed assistance from NRCS and other U.S. Department
of Agriculture (USDA) agencies including WS loans and advances may be provided. Watershed assistance is provided in two types of watershed projects identified by the Public Law under which they are authorized.
(1)
Public Law-534 Watershed.
One of the 11 watersheds authorized by Congress in the Flood Control Act of 1944 (33 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
), Public Law 78-534 as amended.
(2)
Public Law-566 Watershed.
A small watershed of not more than 250,000 acres authorized in accordance with the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act, August 4, 1954, Public Law 83-566 as amended.
(b)
Resource Conservation and Development (RCD) area.
An area in which RCD program assistance from NRCS and other USDA agencies has been authorized. It usually includes all or part of more than one county and may be coterminous with substate planning and development areas. RCD loans are authorized under Section 32 of Title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011).
(c)
Watershed plan.
A plan agreed upon by sponsoring local organizations and the NRCS for developing, operating, and maintaining watershed works of improvement.
(d)
RC
D measure plan.
A plan document for a land area, directly controlled or under the jurisdiction of the sponsoring public bodies or public nonprofit organization. It involves one of the measure purposes eligible for RC
D cost sharing assistance. The document sets forth what will be done, how, when and by whom, and involves RC
D technical and/or financial assistance.
(e)
RCD area plan.
A plan prepared by sponsoring local organizations with assistance from NRCS and other agencies for the development of the RCD area which has been endorsed by the Governor or his designated agency and accepted by the Secretary of Agriculture or his delegate. It includes objectives, planned courses of action, and RCD measures to be developed. It is amended as necessary to include continuing activities and needs in the RCD area.
(f)
Watershed works of improvement.
Structural, nonstructural, and land treatment measures included in a watershed plan which are to be installed in a watershed project.
(g)
RCD measure or project.
An activity or development indicated in the RCD area plan as being needed to achieve RCD area goals and objectives.
(h)
Cost sharing.
The WS and RCD legislative authorities provide for sharing certain costs of installing WS works of improvement or RCD measures by the Federal Government and by sponsoring local organizations. Federal cost sharing from WS and RCD funds is provided by NRCS for certain WS works of improvement and RCD measures. Information on amounts, purposes, and procedures for cost sharing is available from the NRCS.
(i)
Local cost.
The part of the cost of a WS work of improvement or a RCD measure or project that is to be paid by a sponsoring local organization.
(j)
Public agency or public body.
A State agency or department or instrumentality, county, municipality or other political subdivision or instrumentality of a State or agencies or districts created by or pursuant to State law for making improvements of a public nature or providing public services such as soil and water conservation districts, irrigation districts, drainage districts, flood prevention and control districts, school districts, other special purpose districts, municipal corporations or similar governmental units.
(k)
Non-profit corporation.
Mutual and other irrigation, water users, water supply, drainage, or waste disposal companies or associations, ditch companies, grazing, recreation and forestry associations and similar associations and organizations generally designated as private corporations operating on a non-profit basis. They may be organized and chartered under special law, general nonprofit corporation law, or general profit corporation law, if operated on a nonprofit basis under adequate charter, bylaw, mortgage or supplementary agreement provisions which will assure continued operation in that manner.
(l)
Sponsoring local organization.
A local public agency or body or a local nonprofit corporation having authority
under State law to plan, develop, maintain and operate WS works of improvement or RCD measures or projects included in a WS or RCD area plan. The name of the sponsoring local organization must be included in the plan and sponsorship must be evidenced by execution of the plan.
(m)
Watershed loan.
A loan made by RUS from watershed funds to a sponsoring local organization to develop a WS work of improvement.
(n)
RCD loan.
A loan made by RUS from RCD funds to a local sponsoring organization to develop a RCD measure or project. RCD loans are made from RCD funds to enable sponsoring local organizations to provide a part or all of the local share of cost for an RCD measure.
(o)
Watershed advance.
A loan made from NRCS watershed construction funds to develop a future water supply or for the preservation of a site for a work of improvement authorized in a watershed plan.
(p)
Future water supply.
Water storage capacity in a reservoir with related facilities for release or withdrawal of water to meet future needs for municipal or industrial use.
(q)
Preservation of sites.
Acquisition to assure their availability for planned developments. Land, easements, or rights-of-way essential to preserve sites for watershed works of improvement or RCD measures.
(r)
Processing office.
Means the office designated by the Rural Development State Director to accept and process applications for WS and RCD loans and advances.
§ 1781.5
Eligibility.
To be eligible for a WS loan, WS advance, or an RCD loan, the sponsoring local organization must meet the following requirements as applicable. Questions on eligibility will be referred to the Regional Attorney, OGC for legal advise prior to development of a loan docket.
(a) Be named in the WS or RCD plan as a sponsor of the development to be financed.
(b) Be legally organized and established in the WS or RCD area with legal authority, responsibility and capability to develop and operate the facility for which assistance is requested.
(c) Have authority under and comply with Federal, State and local laws on such matters as:
(1) Organizing, installing, operating, and maintaining proposed WS works of improvement or RCD measures or projects.
(2) Borrowing money, giving security, levying taxes, making assessments or raising revenues for operation and maintenance of the facility and repayment of loans.
(3) Land use zoning.
(4) Acquiring necessary property, lands, and rights.
(5) Obtaining approval of construction plans and specifications by appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies and construction facilities.
(6) Health and sanitation standards, water pollution control, and environmental regulations.
(7) Design and installation standards.
(8) Public service commission or similar State public body rules and regulations.
(d) Be financially sound and capable of providing service essential to the rural development needs of the area.
(e) If it is a nonprofit corporation.
(1) Membership should be broadly based and representative of the area benefiting from the facility. Membership on the governing board of the corporation will be limited to those living in the area to be benefited unless for justifiable reasons the Rural Development State Director gives prior approval for other than local residents to serve on the board of directors.
(2) The corporation must propose a facility which will primarily serve or generate other substantial, tangible benefits for farmers and other residents of the area. In the case of a recreational development at least two-thirds of the membership must be farmers and other residing in the area.
(3) Nonprofit corporations will not be formed to serve an area which could be served by a public agency which has adequate authority to provide the needed service unless prior approval of the National Office is obtained.
§ 1781.6
Loan purposes.
(a)
WS and RCD loans.
WS and RCD loans may be used for:
(1) Water development, storage, treatment and conveyance to farms for irrigation and other farm use, including farmstead, livestock, orchard, and crop spraying.
(2) Drainage systems and facilities in farm areas to sustain agricultural production or protect farmers and rural residents from water damage.
(3) Agricultural water management practices for annual streamflow stabilization, recharging ground water reservoirs, and conserving water supplies by management and control of vegetation along waterways and in drainage basins.
(4) Soil conservation and water control facilities such as dikes, terraces, detention reservoirs, stream channels, ditches, and other special land treatment and stabilization measures needed to protect farms and rural residents from water damage, provided such facilities cannot be installed or improved under, or will not conflict with, other public programs such as those administered by the Corps of Engineers.
(5) Special treatment measures or equipment primarily, though not exclusively, for flood prevention such as:
(i) Facilities and equipment for fire prevention and control.
(ii) Tree planting and establishment of other vegetative cover for stabilizing critical runoff and sediment-producing areas.
(iii) Structural and vegetative measures to stabilize stream channels and gullies.
(iv) Basic farm conservation practices to control runoff, erosion, and sedimentation.
(6) Installing, repairing, and improving water storage facilities, including outlets for immediate and future domestic, municipal and industrial water supply and water quality management, and conveying water to treatment facilities or distribution systems. When payment of loans for such facilities are primarily dependent upon revenues from use of water stored the loan approval official must determine the adequacy of facility for use of the water before a loan is closed.
(7) Public water based recreation and fish and wildlife developer loans will only be made to public bodies for the local share of cost for such developments for which NRCS is providing technical or financial assistance from WS or RCD funds. Loans will not be made for developments larger or more elaborate than that which is included in the WS or RCD plan. Loans may include funds for:
(i) Construction of necessary water resource improvements such as storage capacity in multipurpose and single purpose reservoirs, water level control structures in reservoirs and streams, and stream channel improvements necessary for the development of the facilities. This may include practices for improvement of fish and wildlife habitat and environment and related areas and facilities for proper protection and management of the development.
(ii) Essential developments, improvements, equipment and facilities for access, public health and safety, and efficient operation management and maintenance; such as energy utilities, water supply and waste disposal systems, maintenance buildings, fences, cattle guards, roads and trails, parking, picnicking, camping, beaches, playgrounds, and related shelters and equipment.
(iii) Special areas and structures such as forest and other vegetative cover, marshes, pits, shelters and fish ladders to provide protected natural spawning, breeding, nesting, and feeding for fish and wildlife.
(8)
Soil and water management for agriculture-related pollutant control.
Measures to reduce agriculture-related pollutants that adversely affect the community and the general public. Measures may include, but are not limited to, holding ponds, debris basins, diversions, terraces, and community distribution systems.
(9) Acquiring fee simple title to lands or perpetual easements, or rights-of-way for sites for works of improvement or project measures and related costs for removal, relocation, or replacement of existing improvements including relocation payments for displaced persons, business enterprises and facilities, and other related purposes. Funds for land acquisition will be limited to
costs necessary for WS works of improvement or RCD measures. Final construction plans will indicate minimum essential lands and rights-of-way to be acquired. In some cases, sponsoring local organizations may need to acquire lands in excess of actual needs when it is expedient for planned development. If the Rural Development State Director determines that the acquisition of excess land is necessary or expedient for the orderly development of a WS works of improvement, or RCD measure, he may authorize the action subject to the following conditions:
(i) The applicant must agree to sell excess land as soon as practicable and apply the proceeds, together with any income from excess land, on the debt to RUS.
(ii) The applicant must furnish legal evidence of authority to acquire additional land and dispose of it as agreed.
(iii) Evidence must be provided to justify acquisition of additional land.
(iv) Easements for land or water resource protection structures must be perpetual and must not include clauses that terminate the easement with the dissolution or abandonment of the applicant organization. Loan funds will not be used for an easement that deviates in any way from that provided in the standard NRCS form unless modifications of it are approved by both NRCS and RUS.
(10) Acquisition of water supply or water right by purchase or by appropriation under local, State, and Federal laws. The loan may include funds for the purchase of land on which the water supply or water right is presently being used when:
(i) The water supply or water right cannot be purchased without the land; and
(ii) The value of the land is not the major portion of the cost; and
(iii) Any excess land thus acquired will be sold as soon as possible and the proceeds applied on the loan.
(11) Purchase of equipment and machinery necessary for development and operation of planned WS works of improvement or RCD measures or projects including:
(i)
Special-purpose equipment.
Purchase or rent special-purpose equipment to install or maintain any community facility in categories in paragraph (a)(11) of this section or to establish on farms soil and water conservation measures such as terraces, ponds, land leveling for irrigation or drainage, subsoiling, seeding, tree planting, and removal of brush, scattered trees, and stumps, provided:
(A) Such equipment is not otherwise available when needed.
(B) There is sufficient need and local demand to justify ownership or rental.
(C) Rates to be charged include, among other things, an allowance for depreciation, obsolescence, and replacement based upon the recommendations of the equipment manufacturer or the experience of contractors engaged in providing services for similar types of work.
(ii)
Forestry equipment and services.
Purchase or rent basic special-purpose equipment, facilities, certain land or land rights, and supplies needed for furnishing services for the establishment, improvement, protection, and harvesting of timber (not processing) suitable for lumber, pulp, poles or posts; providing that the forest program and forest practices benefiting from such services are in accordance with approved conservation practices for the development, use, and control of water resources on farms and in forests. Special-purpose equipment may include such items as tractors, bull dozers, plows, planters, trucks, loaders, fire-fighting equipment, and sprayers. Facilities may include such items as ponds and reservoirs, pipelines, buildings for storage of equipment and supplies, nurseries, access roads, fire lanes, and lookout towers. Supplies may include such things as seed, seedlings, fertilizers, fencing, and pesticides. Land or land-rights acquisition will be limited to that necessary for sites for facilities listed above which are directly related to the forestry program. Loans for these purposes may be made only when the equipment, supplies, and facilities to be provided:
(A) Are not readily available when needed.
(B) Will be justified by local need and demand.
(C) Will be available to users at rates sufficient to cover loan amortization,
obsolescence, replacement, operation, and cost of supplies.
(D) Will more efficiently serve the group through cooperative effort.
(12) Refinancing debt obligations of the sponsoring local organization that were incurred before application for a WS or RCD loan when that is not the primary purpose of the loan and:
(i) The debt being refinanced was for works of improvement or measures for which loan funds could be used; and
(ii) The debt is a valid obligation of the sponsor; and
(iii) Creditors will not modify payment terms on existing debts, and the organization cannot pay existing debts and a loan from RUS over the same period of time; and
(iv) Long-term debts will not be refinanced unless necessary to provide a sound basis for the loan or WS advance and concurrence is obtained from the National Office.
(13) If repayment is based on revenues, loan funds (not WS advances) can be used for payment of interest installments until the facility is generating enough revenue to make accrued interest payments. Loan funds for interest payments will not exceed the estimated amount that will accrue to the end of the third full calendar year after loan closing without prior approval from the National Office.
(14) Relocation payment to displaced persons, businesses, and farm operations and for relocation assistance advisory services in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894), the Regulations issued by the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act (7 CFR part 21), and the Memorandum of Understanding Between NRCS and RUS.
(15) Services of engineers, architects, attorneys, auditors, construction foremen, managers, clerks, and others for organizing, planning, surveying, supervising, analyzing, developing, operating, managing, and accounting for activities related to loan processing and closing and development for which the loan is made.
(16) Buildings, fences, roads, utilities, facilities, and relocation:
(i) To construct buildings of modest design essential for the operation and maintenance of the works of improvement or measure.
(ii) To provide support facilities and utilities such as gas, electricity, water, sewer, and waste disposal.
(iii) To build or relocate roads, bridges, utilities, fences, and other improvements when necessary to acquire rights-of-ways or to construct or operate the facility.
(17) Services and fees. To pay costs for services for any purposes listed under this section such as:
(i) Fees or other legal expenses for establishing a water right through appropriation, agreement, permit, or court decree.
(ii) Purchase of water stock or membership in an incorporated water users' association to acquire a water supply.
(iii) Costs of labor, technical or professional services, and fees to be incurred in obtaining the loan and in planning and completing the facilities or services to be financed with loan funds.
(iv) Services such as those listed in paragraph (a)(16) of this section.
(b)
RCD loans.
Purposes for which RCD loans may be made in addition to those included in paragraph (a) of this section are:
(1)
Solid waste management.
Lands, equipment and facilities to collect, transport, and dispose of solid waste in sanitary landfills for which NRCS is providing technical assistance.
(2)
Shifts-in-land use.
Lands for uses such as grazing, forestry, wildlife, natural areas and parks, greenbelts, and other open spaces.
(3)
Purchase existing facilities.
Purchase existing facilities for shift-in-land use, soil and water development, conservation, control and use when it is determined that purchase is necessary to provide efficient service through a facility owned and operated by a public agency (or a nonprofit corporation in a rural area), or the owner is either unwilling or unable to make improvements, enlargement, or extensions needed to provide significant additional or improved service for present users or for a new group of users at reasonable rates.
(c)
NRCS watershed advances.
NRCS watershed advances are loans that may be made from NRCS construction funds for the following purposes included in a watershed work plan agreement:
(1) To pay construction costs including cost of engineering and related services for increasing reservoir capacity (including intake and outlet structures) for a future water supply for municipal, domestic, industrial, or agricultural uses.
(2) To preserve sites for authorized watershed works of improvement by acquiring land, easements, and rights-of-ways or other property rights.
§ 1781.7
Loan and advance limitations and obligations incurred before loan closing.
(a)
WS and RCD loan limitations.
(1) Loans will not be used for:
(i) Land treatment measures on individual farms except as provided in § 1781.6(a)(5)(iv).
(ii) Buildings and facilities to be used for lodging, dining or entertainment purposes.
(iii) Building industrial parks or constructing facilities in them, or establishing private industrial or commercial enterprises, or purchasing land to be used primarily for industrial purposes.
(iv) Paying costs allocated to structural measures for flood prevention.
(v) Facilities for the production and harvesting of fish and wildlife such as hatcheries, rearing ponds, and related facilities other than those under natural conditions.
(vi) Facilities primary for treatment and distribution of water or for sewerage, collection and treatment for domestic or industrial use or for municipal or community systems.
(vii) Electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities, except when provided as part of the minimum basic facilities for recreation and fish and wildlife developments authorized in § 1781.6(a)(7).
(viii) Storm and sanitary sewers and solid waste disposal facilities other than authorized in § 1781.6(b)(1).
(ix) Payment for a tract of land, easements, or rights-of-ways on which NRCS will share the cost if the amount to be paid with loan funds exceeds the difference between the NRCS share and the value on which the NRCS share is based.
(x) Purchasing tracts of land primarily for later resale to private developers or individuals for agricultural or nonagricultural use.
(xii) Buildings for residential, commercial, or industrial, use.
(xiii) Developments on private property primarily for the benefit of the individual property owner.
(xiv) Payment of that part of the cost of facilities, improvements, and practices that could be earned by participation in agricultural conservation programs unless such cost cannot be covered by purchase orders or assignments to material suppliers or contractors. If a loan is made for such purposes for which practice or cost share payments exceed $500, RUS will obtain an assignment on such payments to be paid on the loan.
(xv) Primarily for water and sewage treatment plants and distribution systems.
(xvi) Drainage facilities primarily for the benefit of other than rural areas.
(xvii) Any single RCD measure that requires a loan of more than $500,000.
(xviii) The total amount of principal outstanding for all WS loans made for one or more watershed works of improvement in a single watershed project, whether made to one or more sponsoring organizations, will not exceed $10,000,000.
(b)
Watershed advance limitations.
(1) A WS advance for future water supply will not be used for acquiring property rights including lands, easements, and rights-of-way; water rights; administration of contracts; storage capacity for immediate municipal use; pipelines from the reservoir to place of use; or for other uses such as irrigation, fish and wildlife, and recreation.
(2) A WS advance for increasing reservoir capacity for future water supply will not exceed 30 percent of the total installation cost of one structure.
(3) A WS advance for site preservation will not exceed that determined necessary by NRCS except to purchase land in excess of actual needs in accordance with the provisions of § 1781.6(a)(7).
(4) Before a project agreement is entered into, there must be satisfactory evidence that the borrower will develop the site to be acquired or will use the future water supply and that revenue will be sufficient to meet all scheduled installments.
(c)
Obligations incurred before loan closing.
(1) WS loans, WS advances, and RCD loans may be used for payment of obligations incurred before loan closing when the Rural Development State Director determines that:
(i) The obligations incurred are necessary for planned developments; and
(ii) The obligations are incurred for authorized loan purposes; and
(iii) Contracts and construction plans meet RUS and NRCS standards; and
(iv) The applicant has legal authority to incur the obligations at the time proposed; and
(v) The Rural Development State Director authorizes such action in a letter to the applicant.
(2) The Rural Development State Director's letter will specifically state that the permission is granted on the condition that RUS is not committed to make a loan and assumes no responsibility for any obligation incurred by the applicant because of the permission granted and that the loan will be closed subject to compliance with agency regulations including closing instructions of the Regional Attorney Office of the General Counsel.
§ 1781.8
Rates and terms—WS loans and WS advances and RCD loans.
(a)
Interest rates.
The interest rate for WS loans, WS advances and RCD loans will be at a rate not to exceed the current market yield for outstanding municipal obligations with remaining periods to maturity comparable to the average maturity for the loan, adjusted to the nearest
1/8
of 1 percent.
(1) For loans, unless otherwise required by State law, interest will accrue from date of check delivery where Form RD 440-22, “Promissory Note (Association Organization),” is used. Where bonds are used interest will accrue from the applicable dates recorded on the bonds. Where multiple loan disbursements are used interest will accrue from date of check.
(2) Interest on an advance for future water supply will begin as required by State law, when water is first used from the future water storage capacity installed with advance, or ten years from the scheduled date of the completion of the facility, whichever date is the earlier.
(3) Interest on an advance for preservation of sites will begin on the date the advance is closed.
(b)
Length of repayment period.
The repayment period on loans may not exceed the shortest of the following periods:
(1) The statutory limitation on the sponsoring local organization's borrowing authority.
(2) Fifty (50) years for WS loans and WS advances and 30 years for RCD loans from the date when the principal benefits from the WS works of improvement or RCD measure being financed first become available.
(3) The useful life of the WS works of improvement or RCD measure being financed with loan or advance funds.
(c)
Deferred or partial payments.
Deferred or partial payments may be authorized in the following circumstances:
(1) Payments need to be delayed until the receipt of income from taxes or other revenues is enough to meet a regular installment but not exceed:
(i) The completion date of the facility; or
(ii) The date when benefits from the facility begins; but
(iii) In no case for more than 5 years for other than future water supply.
(2) Payments will depend on the increased returns expected from planned improvements, or from the installation on individual farms of land development or other soil and water improvements essential for obtaining benefits from the improvement to be installed with loan funds.
(3) They will not be used to permit the accelerated payment of other debts, to make capital improvements, or to create operating reserves.
(4) Where prohibited by State statutes; interest payments will not be deferred even though payments on principal may be deferred.
(5) Loans or advances for future water supply will be repaid within the
life of the reservoir structure but in no event later than 50 years for WS and 30 years for RCD after the reservoir structure is built. Payments on the principal amount may be deferred one year after the water is first used from the storage capacity installed with the advance or for 10 years from the scheduled completion date of the structures, whichever occurs first.
(i) Interest will begin for a future water supply as required by State law, or when water is first used from the future storage capacity or 10 years from the scheduled date of completion of the facility, whichever occurs first.
(ii) If State law requires that interest be charged and repaid before water is first used or earlier than 10 years from completion date of the structure, interest payments will be scheduled to comply with State law even though payments of principal may be deferred.
(iii) The borrower should be encouraged to begin repayments as soon as practicable after the reservoir is built even though this liberal deferment policy exists.
(iv) WS advances for preservation of sites must be fully repaid before beginning construction of the works of improvement for which such sites were acquired.
(A) Unless a WS advance is to be repaid with a WS loan, installments will be scheduled at the earliest possible date following the date of closing the advance. The date and amount of each such installment will be fixed to coincide with the receipt of income from taxes or other revenues.
(B) Payments for both principal and interest on a WS advance for preservation of sites may be scheduled for payment in one installment to be paid on the date of the closing of a WS loan which includes funds for the repayment of the WS advance.
(C) Interest on a WS advance for preservation of sites will begin on the date the WS advance is closed.
(d)
Payment amortization and application.
(1) A borrower may make prepayments on WS loans, WS advances or RCD loans in any amount at any time.
(2) Payments will be applied first to interest accrued to the date of the receipt of payment, and second to the principal balance. If the regular payments plus any prepayments exceed the cumulative amount due, the excess payments will be applied on the next installment first to interest, then principal. Loan refunds and proceeds from the sale of security property, however, will be applied on the final unpaid installment.
(3) Payments will be scheduled annually beginning one year following the date of loan closing or one year following the end of any approved deferment period, unless another annual due date is required by State statute or upon prior written authorization from the National Office. In those cases where loans are being made under statutes requiring a repayment date other than this, the Rural Development State Director will send a copy of the Regional Attorney's opinion that such is required, to the Finance Office.
(4) When a single obligation instrument is used, amortized installments will be required. When this cannot be done because of state law, serial bonds or a single bond having installments of principal plus interest, stated separately, will be used. In cases where the payment of interest has been deferred, all collections will be applied to interest until such interest has been paid. Also, when a full installment is not paid when due, the payment made will be applied first to accrued interest.
(5) In cases where the indebtedness will be represented by serial bonds or a single bond having installments of principal plus interest, stated separately, annual payments of principal and interest will be scheduled to permit them to be paid in amounts approximately equal to the amounts that would be required for annual amortized installments.
(6) If the borrower will be retiring other debts represented by bonds or notes, the payment on such bonds may be considered in developing the payment schedule for the RUS loan. In some cases, it may be desirable to reduce the amount of payments to RUS in the early years of the loan in order to preclude the necessity for refinancing the outstanding debt. When such payment schedules are proposed, National Office authorization will be obtained prior to loan approval.
(7)
Payment date.
Insofar as loan payments are consistent with income availability, applicable State statutes, and commercial customs in the preparation of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness, they should be scheduled on a monthly basis either in the bond or other evidence of indebtedness or through the use of a supplemental agreement. Such requirements will be accomplished not later than the time of loan closing. When monthly payments are required, such payments will be scheduled beginning one full month following the date of loan closing or the end of any approved deferment period. Subsequent monthly payments will be scheduled each full month thereafter. In those cases where evidence of indebtedness calls for annual or semiannual payments, they will be scheduled beginning six or twelve full months, respectively following the date of loan closing or the end of any approved deferment period. Subsequent payments will be scheduled each sixth or twelfth full month respectively, thereafter. When the evidence of indebtedness is dated the 29th, 30th, or 31st day of a month, the payment date will be scheduled the 28th day of the month.
§ 1781.9
Security, feasibility, evidence of debt, title, insurance and other requirements.
(a)
Security.
WS loans, WS advances, and RCD loans will be secured in accordance with applicable provisions of § 1780.14 of this chapter.
(b)
Feasibility.
All projects financed under the provisions of this part must be based on taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other satisfactory sources in an amount that will provide for facility operation and maintenance, a reasonable reserve, and payment of the debt. The Rural Development State Director may obtain needed assistance in determining economic feasibility from officials of NRCS and other appropriate USDA agencies. See § 1780.7(f) of this chapter for applicable economic feasibility requirements and feasibility reports.
(c)
Notes, bonds, and bond transcript documents.
See subpart D of part 1780 of this chapter for applicable requirements and provisions.
(d)
Insurance.
See § 1780.39(g) of this chapter for requirements.
(e)
National flood insurance.
The requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
) as amended by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4003
et seq.
) will be complied with in accordance with applicable provisions of RD Instruction 1901-L. Also see § 1780.39(g) of this chapter.
(f)
Borrower contracts and bonds.
See subpart C of part 1780 of this chapter for applicable provisions.
(g)
Title requirements.
(1) Title evidence for land, easements, and rights-of-way to be acquired with proceeds of loans or advances will be furnished by the sponsoring local organization in accordance with NRCS policies and procedures.
(2) RUS will specify and approve the form and content of instruments for conveying title to or interest in real estate on which a lien will be taken to secure a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan. These should be consistent with the applicable provisions of § 1780.14 of this chapter. The Rural Development State Director will make his decision after consultation with the Regional Attorney and the State Conservationist. He will notify NRCS in writing of his decision. Thereafter, title clearance will be completed under NRCS regulations except that a marketable title must be obtained on any tract of land, a part of which will be sold as excess land in accordance with § 1781.6(a)(9). In addition to the title evidence required by NRCS, applicants will furnish an opinion of legal counsel on all land and interest in land acquired with loan or advance funds.
(h)
Purchasing lands, rights and facilities.
The amounts paid for lands, rights, and facilities with loan funds will be not more than that determined to be reasonable and fair by the loan approval official based upon an appraisal of the current market value made by an Rural Development employee or an independent appraiser.
(i)
Water rights.
Applicants will be required to comply with applicable State and local laws and regulations governing appropriating, diverting, storing and using water, changing the place
and manner of use of water, and in disposing of water. All of the rights of any landowner, appropriator, or user of water from any source will be fully honored in all respects as they may be affected by facilities installed with WS loans and advances and RCD loans. If, under the provisions of State law, notice of the proposed diversion or storage of water by the applicant may be filed, the applicant will be required to file such a notice. An applicant must furnish evidence to provide reasonable assurance that its water rights will be or have been properly established, will not interfere with prior vested rights, will likely not be contested or enjoined by other water users or riparian owners, and will be within the provisions of any applicable interstate compact.
§ 1781.10
[Reserved]
§ 1781.11
Other considerations.
(a)
Technical assistance.
When pipelines from reservoirs to treatment plants are included in watershed work plans, NRCS will not furnish engineering services for their design or installation. When such pipelines are to be financed by WS or RCD loans, RUS will supervise the activities of the private engineers retained for the purpose. Such RUS supervision will include, among other things, approval of private engineer's contracts, approval of plans and specifications, authorization of contract awards, spot checks of engineering inspection, and final inspection and acceptance.
(b)
Professional services.
Applicants will be responsible for providing the services necessary to plan projects including design of facilities, preparation of cost and income estimates, development of proposals for organization and financing, and overall operation and maintenance of the facility. Necessary professional services may include such as that of an engineer, architect, attorney, bond counsel, accountant, auditor, and financial advisor or fiscal agent. Form RD 442-19, “Agreement for Engineering Services,” may be used when appropriate. RUS Bulletin 1780-7, “Legal Service Agreement” may be used to prepare the agreement for legal services.
(c)
Other services.
Contracts for other services such as management, operation, and maintenance will be developed by the applicant and presented to the RUS official developing the docket for review and approval.
(d)
Fees for services.
Fees provided for in contracts, agreements or services will not be more than those ordinarily charged by the profession for similar work when RUS financing is not involved.
(e)
State pollution control or Environmental Protection Agency standards.
Facilities will be designed, installed and operated to prevent pollution of water in excess of established standards. Effluent disposal will conform with appropriate State and Federal Water Pollution Control Standards.
(f)
Water pollution.
When repayment of a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan will be dependent upon income from the use or sale of water, RUS approval will be contingent upon a determination that the proposed use of stored water for recreation or municipal supply might not be permitted by a State health department because the water is being polluted from an upstream or other source.
(g)
Environmental review requirements.
Actions will be taken to comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. When environmental assessments and environmental impact statements have been prepared on WS plans or RCD area plans by NRCS, a separate environmental impact statement or assessment on WS works of improvement or RCD measures for which a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan is requested will not be necessary unless the NRCS environmental review fails to meet the requirements of 7 CFR part 1970. If the environmental impact statement or environmental assessment is satisfactory, the Agency should formally adopt the document in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. If a determination is made that further analysis of the environmental impact is needed, the Agency will make necessary arrangements with the NRCS State Conservationist for such action to be taken before a loan is made.
(h)
National Historic Preservation Act.
All projects will comply with the provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
) in accordance with RD Instruction 1901-F.
(i)
Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Recipients of WS loans, WS advances, or RCD loans are subject to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
), which prohibits discrimination because of race, color, or national origin. Borrowers must agree not to discriminate in their operations by signing Form RD 400-4, “Nondiscrimination Agreement,” before loan closing. This requirement should be discussed with the applicant as early in the negotiations as possible. Necessary actions will be taken in accordance with RD Instruction 1901-E.
(j)
Appraisals.
When required by the Rural Development State Director, appraisals will be made by an Rural Development official designated or an independent appraiser. Form RD 442-10, “Appraisal Report—Water and Waste Disposal Systems,” with appropriate supplements, may be modified as needed for use with the type of facilities being appraised.
(k)
Architectural Barriers Act of 1968.
All facilities financed with RUS loans and grants which are accessible to the public or in which physically handicapped persons may be employed or reside must be developed in compliance with this act (42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.
).
[62 FR 33500, June 19, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 11028, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1781.12
Preapplication and application processing.
(a)
WS and RCD loans
—(1)
Preapplications.
(i) The processing office or other person designated by the Rural Development State Director may assist the applicant in completing SF 424.1, “Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-construction),” and will forward one of SF 424.1 to the Rural Development State Director.
(ii) The Rural Development State Director will review SF 424.1 along with other necessary information and will coordinate selection of preapplications to be processed with NRCS. He will consult with NRCS State Conservationist concerning the status of the WS plan or RCD measure plan, the estimated time schedule for construction and cost of the proposed works to be installed with the loan, cost sharing funds to be made available to the applicant, and other pertinent information.
(iii) Form AD-622, “Notice of Preapplication Review Action,” will be prepared and signed by the Rural Development State Director within forty-five (45) days from receipt of the preapplication in the processing office stating the results of the review action. An original and one copy of Form AD-622 will be sent to the processing office who will deliver the original to the applicant.
(2)
Applications.
(i) The application includes applicable forms and information indicated in RUS Instruction 1780. When the Rural Development State Director determines that an application will be further processed and Form AD-622 is delivered, he will designate a community program specialist (field), or a member of the community program staff to assist the processing office and the applicant with assembling and processing the application.
(ii) The processing office should arrange needed conferences with the applicant and its legal and engineering consultants, and when necessary, arrange for review of other Rural Development officials, and provide bulletins, forms, instructions and other assistance with assembling and processing the application. A processing checklist and time schedule will be established by using Form RD 1942-40, “Processing Check List (Public Bodies),” or Form RD 1942-39, “Processing Check List (Other than Public Bodies).” The processing office will send a letter and a copy of the processing checklist to the applicant to confirm decisions reached at the conference. The original and a copy of the processing checklist will be kept in the processing office and will be posted current as application processing actions are taken. The copy will be circulated from the processing office to the State Office for use in updating copies of the forms retained, after which it will be returned from the State Office to the processing office.
(3)
Dockets.
WS loan, WS advance, and RCD loan dockets will be developed and assembled in accordance with applicable RUS Instruction 1780.
(b)
Watershed advances.
Applications for WS advances will be developed and processed with NRCS assistance as necessary.
(1) The Rural Development State Director will arrange with the NRCS State Conservationist to be advised when a local sponsoring organization applies to NRCS for a WS advance.
(2) The Rural Development State Director will request the NRCS State Conservationist to provide information justifying the WS advance along with a written recommendation that it be made. This will include:
(i) Economic feasibility of the proposed WS advance.
(ii) Evidence of the legal authority of the sponsoring local organization to incur the obligation and make required payments.
(iii) Any limitations on the issuance of additional bonds or notes which may be imposed by the provisions of bond ordinances or on resolutions which authorize the issuance of any outstanding obligation of the sponsoring local organization.
(iv) The amount of WS advance funds to be provided, purpose for which funds will be used, and date funds will be needed.
(3) When the above information has been made available to the Rural Development State Director, he will send written recommendations concerning further action on the WS advance request to the NRCS State Conservationist including actions to be taken in the preparation of the WS advance docket.
(c)
Combination WS loans and WS advances.
If an applicant requests both a WS loan and WS advance, the application for the WS loan should indicate the amount of the WS advance needed and whether a request for it has been made to NRCS. The Rural Development State Director and the NRCS State Conservationist will coordinate applicable processing actions of such applications. When the Rural Development State Director determines that favorable consideration will be given to an application for a loan or advance, he will provide instructions to the processing office for completing and processing the appropriate docket. Any questions concerning eligibility or other legal matters should be cleared with the Regional Attorney.
(d)
Review of decision.
When it is determined that the preapplication or application cannot be given favorable consideration, the Rural Development State Director will return it to the processing office along with written reasons. When the processing office receives this information, it will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons why the request was not favorably considered. The notification to the applicant will state that the RUS Administrator may be requested to review the decision. This action will be taken in accordance with § 1780.37 of this chapter.
(1) Upon receipt of the State Office copy of a review request from the applicant, the Rural Development State Director will furnish a report on the matter to the Administrator.
(2) The Administrator will notify the applicant and the Rural Development State Director in writing of his decision and the reasons therefore.
§ 1781.13
[Reserved]
§ 1781.14
Planning, options, and appraisals.
(a) WS and RCD area plans are developed by sponsoring local agencies and organizations with technical assistance from NRCS and other Federal and State agencies. These plans include WS works of improvement and RCD measures to be developed or constructed for which NRCS construction funds may be made available on a cost share basis along with funds provided by the sponsoring local organization, a portion or all of which may be obtained by a WS loan and/or WS advance or a RCD loan.
(b) Current information on the availability of cost share funds and purposes for which they may be used is provided by NRCS. The amount of NRCS cost share funds and the amount of funds to be provided by the sponsoring local organizations will be indicated in each plan. The estimated amount of WS
loan, WS advance or RCD loan anticipated by the sponsoring local organization should also be included.
(c) Plans for the development or construction of individual WS works of improvement and RCD measures will normally be developed with NRCS technical assistance. In every case they will be approved by both the NRCS State conservationist and the Rural Development State Director or their designated agent when a WS loan, WS advance or RCD loan is made.
(d) Options and appraisals related to the purchase of real estate for which a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan is made must be developed in accordance with NRCS and RUS requirements and approved by RUS. The determination of present market value will be made in accordance with § 1780.44(g) of this chapter.
§ 1781.15
Planning and performing development.
Planning and performing development will be handled in accordance with subpart C of part 1780 of this chapter and guidance from NRCS.
§ 1781.16
[Reserved]
§ 1781.17
Docket preparation and processing.
(a)
Loan dockets.
Dockets for WS loans, WS advances and RCD loans will be prepared in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1780 of this chapter.
(1)
Time for preparation of docket.
Docket preparation may begin as soon as a preliminary draft of the watershed plan or RCD area plan, together with an estimate of costs and benefits, have been prepared with the assistance of NRCS and approved by the sponsoring local organization applicant. However, the applicant must understand that approval of the WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan will not be determined until the work plan has been authorized for assistance by NRCS. To the extent practicable, docket preparation may be completed by that time to facilitate the availability of funds when needed.
(2)
Instructions for preparation of docket.
When the Rural Development State Director has determined that plans and other requirements are completed to the extent that preparation of the loan docket may begin, he will send the processing office a memorandum giving complete instructions for docket preparation, with a list of documents to be included in the docket.
(3)
Objectives of the docket.
The docket should include information for use in determining that:
(i) The sponsoring local organization:
(A) Has legal authority to construct and operate the proposed facility, borrow money, give security, incur debt, and generate revenue needed for operation, maintenance, reserves, debt payment, and other cash requirements.
(B) Is a sponsor or cosponsor of the WS plan or RCD work plan and is otherwise eligible for assistance.
(ii) Funds will be used for authorized purposes.
(iii) The source of income to be pledged for debt payment and the security proposed is adequate.
(iv) Actions required for loan closing are administratively satisfactory, legally sufficient and properly documented in accordance with Agency regulations.
(4)
Assembly of the docket.
The docket will be assembled in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section and will include the following:
(i) A copy of the WS works of improvement agreement or RCD measure agreement.
(ii) A copy of the Operation and Maintenance Agreement between NRCS and the WS or RCD sponsoring local organization for the WS works of improvement or the RCD measure.
(iii) A statement from the NRCS State Conservationist concurring in the feasibility of the WS work of improvement or RCD measure and that NRCS is providing financial and/or technical assistance in accordance with applicable WS or RCD authorities.
(5)
Narrative by processing office.
This should be included in or attached to the Project Summary. It should relate project costs to benefits of the WS or RCD loan or WS advance. Minimum and average individual charges, tax levies or assessments should be given where applicable. Where taxes or assessments on land will be levied, acres should be indicated and average cost per acre should be given. Analyses of
income from recreational facilities should be based on the best information available from local, State, and Federal agencies concerned with such recreation facilities. Determination of water rates, schedules, and estimated consumption of water should be made by the same methods as for loans for domestic water and irrigation.
(6)
Estimates of right-of-way Costs.
The docket should include, as part of the Project Summary, current estimated costs of easements, rights-of-way, and other land rights which must be acquired. The amount estimated for such purposes in the WS or RCD plan should reflect current conditions.
(b)
Loan processing by State Office
—(1)
Review of the docket.
The processing office will check the docket for accuracy and completeness and forward it to the State Office with their recommendations. The Rural Development State Director will review the docket to determine that:
(i) All documents are accurate and complete.
(ii) The proposed loan complies with WS and RCD program policies and procedures of both RUS and NRCS.
(iii) Security is adequate and the repayment plan is sound.
(iv) Funds requested are for authorized purposes.
(v) Actions are in compliance with requirements of applicable Federal and State laws.
(2)
Letter of conditions.
When the Rural Development State Director determines that the docket is complete and the proposed activity is feasible, he will prepare a proposed letter of conditions under which the application may be further processed. The letter will be delivered to and discussed with the applicant. Upon acceptance of the conditions the applicant will indicate intentions to meet the conditions by a letter of interest and the application will be further processed.
(3)
Legal review.
The complete docket and proposed letter of conditions will be forwarded to the Regional Attorney, OGC for review and preparation of closing instructions. If it is not possible to issue closing instructions at that time, the Regional Attorney, will issue a preliminary legal opinion commenting upon the applicants legal existence, authority to incur debt and give security for the WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan requested and actions to be taken before closing instructions may be issued.
(4)
Authorization for approval.
When the Rural Development State Director receives closing instructions or a preliminary legal opinion for a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan that is not within his approval authority he will send this information along with the docket, the proposed letter of conditions, and a memorandum recommending approval to the National Office. A copy of his memorandum will be sent to the processing office. If the proposed action is within the Rural Development State Director's approval authority he need not submit the material listed in this paragraph (b)(4) to the National Office unless he wants review and comments before approval.
(c)
WS advance processing.
(1) When the Rural Development State Director has concurred with the NRCS State Conservationist in the inclusion of a WS advance in a watershed plan, preparation of the advance docket can be initiated and will be processed in the same manner as for a WS loan. Where both a WS loan and WS advance are planned only one docket will be prepared to include both the WS loan and WS advance.
(2) If the advance appears to be sound and proper, the Rural Development State Director will send a proposed memorandum of concurrence to the NRCS State Conservationist. The memorandum will state that RUS concurs in the execution of a work of improvement agreement for which NRCS will obligate advance funds and that RUS will accept the proposed obligations of the applicant to repay the advance subject to conditions specified in or attached to the memorandum. These conditions will include all appropriate requirements in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section and will specify compliance with closing instructions issued by the Regional Attorney. It will also indicate that preparation of the WS advance docket will be in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) The Rural Development State Director and the NRCS State Conservationist will sign the memorandum of concurrence to NRCS when:
(i) It has been determined that funds for the advance will be obligated by NRCS; and
(ii) The WS advance docket, has been approved; and
(iii) Closing instructions have been issued by the Regional Attorney; and
(iv) The Rural Development State Director and NRCS State Conservationist have determined that the applicant can comply with all requirements of the letter of conditions and closing instructions.
§ 1781.18
Feasibility.
(a) Before WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan is approved, a determination of feasibility will be made by the Rural Development State Director based upon a review of plans developed in cooperation with NRCS personnel. The feasibility determination must have the concurrence of the NRCS State Conservationist before a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan is approved.
(b) A written assessment of the project's feasibility will be made by the processing office, Architect/Engineer, and Program Chief in their recommendations or comments on the Project Summary. These should reflect concurrence of the respective NRCS personnel in counterpart positions with whom they cooperate in administering these programs.
§ 1781.19
Approval, closing, and cancellation.
(a) Approval and closing actions will be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1780 of this chapter and the following requirements have been met:
(1) The WS or RCD plan has been approved for operations by NRCS and the applicant is an official sponsoring or cosponsoring local organization for the plan as evidenced by being included in the list of sponsoring or co-sponsoring local organizations in the plan.
(2) Closing instructions or a preliminary legal opinion has been prepared by the Regional Attorney.
(3) The governing body of the applicant's sponsoring local organization has formally passed and approved the loan resolution.
(4) The Rural Development State Director and NRCS State Conservationist have determined that all planned actions can be carried out as proposed in the project plan and the docket.
(5) The NRCS State Conservationist and Rural Development State Director have mutually agreed on the priority to be given the WS loan or WS advance, or RCD loan. In making this determination, consideration will be given to the relative priority of the WS works of improvement or RCD measures to all other such work in the State and the anticipated availability of Federal and local funds to assure continuity of action and work until the project is completed. When funds are to be provided by NRCS for a WS or RCD loan or a WS advance such funds must be obligated by NRCS before closing.
(6) Public bodies will be required to use bond counsel in accordance with subpart D of part 1780 of this chapter.
(b) When favorable action is not taken on a WS loan, WS advance, or RCD loan, the Rural Development State Director will notify the NRCS State Conservationist and the applicant in writing and, if possible, arrange for a meeting of RUS and NRCS representatives with the applicant to explain the action. WS loans, WS advances, or RCD loans may be canceled before closing.
§ 1781.20
Disbursement of WS and RCD loan funds and WS advance funds.
(a) WS and RCD loan funds will be disbursed by the processing office in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 1780.45 of this chapter and RUS Bulletin 1781-1, paragraph (5). Funds will be made available to the borrower as needed for payment of development or other costs for which the loan is made. The processing office must determine that the payment is for an authorized purpose and is for benefits accrued to the borrower. This will require evidence from NRCS in accordance with the applicable provisions of RUS Bulletin 1781-1, “Memorandum of Understanding Between RUS and NRCS.”
(b) WS advance funds may be disbursed in the same manner as WS loan funds if such funds are transferred to RUS by NRCS for disbursement or they may be disbursed by NRCS. When WS advance funds are disbursed by NRCS, payments from advance of funds will be reported to the Rural Development State Director each month to be reported to the Finance Office and charged to the borrower's account. This action will be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of RUS Bulletin 1781-1 or RUS Bulletin 1781-2 and agreement between the NRCS State Conservationist and Rural Development State Director as follows:
(1) When a future water supply is being developed with NRCS, WS advance funds, the NRCS State Conservationist will send the Rural Development State Director a monthly report of funds disbursed. This will include three (3) copies of Form NRCS-AS-49a and 49b, “Contract Payment Estimate and Construction Progress Report,” along with a transmittal Memorandum showing the sequential number (first, second, third, etc.) of the payment, the amount and date of payment, the check number by which the payment was made and the cumulative amount of advance funds disbursed to date. When the works of improvement, for which WS advance funds are used is completed the final report will, in addition to the above, show the date that construction was completed and the total amount of WS advance funds used.
(2) WS advances for construction costs will be set out each month on Form NRCS-49a. The Rural Development State Director should make arrangements with the NRCS State Conservationist to be supplied each month with a copy of Form NRCS 49a when advance funds are included together with an official statement from the NRCS State Administrative Officer giving the date of the check and the exact amount of each advance of funds made under the advance provisions of the project agreement or of any engineering services agreement or other supplementary agreement which further implements the proposal for the advance in the project agreement. The original will be sent immediately to the Finance Office and a copy provided for the processing office file.
(3) When WS advance funds are used to acquire property for site preservation the same reporting procedure as for a future water supply will be used except that Form NRCS-AS-49a and 49b if used, should be adopted to indicate fund use. As payments are made on land on which a mortgage or other security instrument is required, such instruments will be executed in accordance with instructions from the Regional Attorney, OGC.
(4) The Rural Development State Director must send the bond or note evidencing WS advance indebtedness of the borrower to the Finance Office along with reports of payments from advance funds disbursed by NRCS. A copy of the bond or note and copy of each report of payment will be sent to the processing office.
(c)
Actions subsequent to closing of loans or advances.
Actions will be taken in accordance with § 1780.44 of this chapter.
§ 1781.21
Borrower accounting methods, management, reporting, and audits.
These activities will be handled in accordance with the provisions of § 1780.47 of this chapter.
§ 1781.22
Subsequent loans.
Subsequent loans will be processed in accordance with this part.
§ 1781.23
Servicing.
Servicing will be handled in accordance with the provisions of subpart E of part 1951 of this title.
§ 1781.24
State supplements and availability of bulletins, instructions, forms, and memorandums.
(a) State supplements will be issued as needed in accordance with applicable provisions of part 1780 of this chapter.
(b) Bulletins, instructions, forms and memorandums are available from any USDA/Rural Development office or the Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC. 20250-1500.
§§ 1781.25-1781.100
[Reserved]
Pt. 1782

# PART 1782—SERVICING OF WATER AND WASTE PROGRAMS
Sec.
1782.1
Purpose.
1782.2
Objectives.
1782.3
Definitions.
1782.4
Availability of forms and regulations.
1782.5
Nondiscrimination.
1782.6
[Reserved]
1782.7
Grants.
1782.8
Payments.
1782.9
Environmental review requirements.
1782.10
Audit requirements.
1782.11
Refinancing requirements.
1782.12
Sale or exchange of security property.
1782.13
Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
1782.14
Protection of service areas—7 U.S.C. 1926(b).
1782.15
Mergers and consolidations.
1782.16
Defeasance of Agency indebtedness.
1782.17
Parity lien.
1782.18
[Reserved]
1782.19
Third party agreements.
1782.20
Debt settlement.
1782.21
[Reserved]
1782.22
Exception authority.
1782.23
Use of Rural Development loans and grants for other purposes.
1782.24-1782.99
[Reserved]
1782.100
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1981; 16 U.S.C. 1005.

# Source:
72 FR 55013, Sept. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1782.1
Purpose.
This part outlines the Rural Utilities Service's (RUS), an agency delivering the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Development Utilities Programs, hereinafter referred to as Rural Development and/or Agency, policies and procedures for servicing direct and insured Water and Waste Disposal (WWD) loans and grants; Watershed loans and advances; Resource Conservation and Development loans; Technical Assistance and Training grants; Emergency Community Water Assistance grants; Solid Waste Management grants; and section 306C WWD loans and grants.
§ 1782.2
Objectives.
Loan and grant servicing is provided by Rural Development in order to assist recipients in complying with the established objectives and requirements for loans and grants, repaying loans on schedule, acting in accordance with any necessary agreements, and protecting Rural Development's financial interest. Servicing by Rural Development includes, but is not limited to, the review of budgets, management reports, audits, and financial statements; performing operational inspections; providing, arranging, or recommending technical assistance; evaluating environmental impacts of proposed actions by the borrower; and performing civil rights compliance and graduation reviews.
§ 1782.3
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
Acceleration.
A written notice informing the borrower that the total unpaid principal and interest is due and payable immediately.
Adjustment.
Satisfaction of a debt, including release of liability, when acceptance by the Agency is conditioned upon completion of payment of the adjusted amount at a specific time or times, with or without the payment of any consideration when the adjustment offer is approved. An adjustment is not a final settlement until all payments under the adjustment agreement have been made.
Administrator.
Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service, an agency delivering the United States Department of Agriculture's Utilities Programs.
Agency.
The Rural Utilities Service, an Agency delivering the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Utilities Programs, or any employee acting on its behalf in accordance with appropriate delegations of authority.
Assumption of debt.
Agreement by one party to legally bind itself to pay the debt incurred by another.
Borrower.
Recipient of Agency or predecessor Agency loan assistance.
Cancellation.
Final discharge of debt with a release of liability.
Charge-off.
Write off of a debt and termination of servicing activity without release of liability. A charge-off is a decision by the Agency to remove debt from Agency receivables, however, future payments may be received.
Compromise.
Satisfaction of a debt including a release of liability by accepting a lump-sum payment of less than the total amount owed.
Defeasance.
Defeasance is the use of invested proceeds from a new bond issue to repay outstanding bonds in accordance with the repayment schedule of the outstanding bonds. The new issue supersedes the contractual agreements from the prior issue.
Disposition of facility.
Relinquishing control of a facility to another entity.
False information.
Information, known by the applicant to be incorrect, provided with the intent to obtain benefits which would not have been obtainable based on correct information.
Government.
The United States of America, acting through the Agency. USDA, Rural Development and Agency may be used interchangeably throughout this part.
Grantee.
Recipient of Agency or predecessor Agency grant assistance, technical assistance, or services.
Letter of Conditions.
A written document that describes the conditions which the borrower and/or grantee must meet for funds to be advanced and the loan and/or grant to be closed.
Liquidation.
Satisfaction of a debt through the sale of a borrower's assets and discharge of liabilities.
Parity Lien.
A lien having an equal lien position to another lender's lien on a borrower's asset.
Reasonable rates and terms.
The prevailing commercial rates and terms in the industry that borrowers are expected to pay when borrowing for similar purposes and periods of time.
Rural Development.
The mission area of the Under Secretary for Rural Development. Rural Development State and local offices administer the water and waste programs on behalf of the Agency.
Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
An Agency of the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development mission area established pursuant to section 232 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354).
Servicing office.
The USDA office which maintains the official file of the borrower or grantee and is responsible for the routine servicing of the loan and/or grant account.
Servicing official.
USDA official who has been delegated loan and grant approval and servicing authorities subject to any dollar limitations within applicable programs.
Settlement.
Compromise, adjustment, cancellation, or charge-off of a debt owed USDA. The term “settlement” is used for convenience in referring to compromise, adjustment, cancellation, or charge-off action, individually or collectively.
Unliquidated obligations.
Obligated loan or grant funds that have not been advanced.
USDA.
United States Department of Agriculture.
Voluntary conveyance.
A method by which title to security is voluntarily transferred to the Government.
§ 1782.4
Availability of forms and regulations.
Information about the availability of forms, regulations, bulletins, and procedures referenced in this chapter are available in any office of Rural Development USDA, Washington, DC 20250-1500 or at the Web site
http://www.usda.gov/rus/water.
§ 1782.5
Nondiscrimination.
Each instrument of conveyance required for a transfer, assumption, sale of facility, or other servicing action under this subpart will comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352), Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-318), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112), and other Federal statutes and regulations issued pursuant thereto that prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, handicap, religion, age, or sex in programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance. Such provisions apply for as long as the property continues to be used for the same or similar purposes for which the Federal assistance was extended, or for so long as the purchaser owns it, whichever is later.
§ 1782.6
[Reserved]
§ 1782.7
Grants.
Servicing actions relating to Agency grants are governed by the provisions of several regulations and executive orders, including, but not limited to, 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by 2 CFR part 400, and 2 CFR parts 415, 416, 417, and 418 and Executive Order (E.O.) 12803. Grantees remain responsible for property acquired with grant funds in accordance with terms of a grant agreement and applicable regulations.
[79 FR 76006, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 1782.8
Payments.
Payments will be applied in accordance with the terms of the debt instrument. Information on nontypical payments can be obtained from the Servicing official or office. All new borrowers will use pre-authorized debits as required in their Letter of Conditions.
§ 1782.9
Environmental review requirements.
Servicing actions involving lease or sale of Agency-owned property must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
[81 FR 11029, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1782.10
Audit requirements.
Audits for loans will be required in accordance with § 1780.47 of this chapter. If the borrower becomes delinquent or is experiencing problems, the servicing official will require an audit or other documentation deemed necessary to resolve the delinquency. The provisions of subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, address audit requirements for recipients of Federal assistance.
[79 FR 76006, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 1782.11
Refinancing requirements.
If at any time it appears to the Government that the borrower is able to refinance the amount of the indebtedness then outstanding, in whole or in part, by obtaining a loan for such purposes from responsible cooperative or private credit sources, at reasonable rates and terms, the borrower will, upon request of the Government, apply for and accept such loan in sufficient amount to repay the Government and will take all such actions as may be required in connection with such loan.
§ 1782.12
Sale or exchange of security property.
A cash sale of all or a portion of a borrower's assets or an exchange of security property may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section.
(a)
Approval conditions.
Approval may be given when the servicing official determines that:
(1) The consideration is for the full amount of the debt or the present fair market value as determined by an appraisal completed by a qualified Rural Development employee or an independent appraiser as determined appropriate by the approval official;
(2) The sale or exchange will not prevent carrying out the purpose of the loan;
(3) The remaining property is adequate security for the loan and the transaction will not adversely affect the Agency's security position;
(4) If the property to be sold or exchanged will be used for similar purposes that the loan was made, the purchaser will:
(i) Execute Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement.” The instrument of conveyance will contain the civil rights covenant referenced in 7 CFR 1901.202(e); and
(ii) Provide the Agency with a written agreement assuming all rights and obligations of the original borrower, and
(5) Proceeds remaining after paying any reasonable and necessary selling expenses are to be used for one or more of the following purposes:
(i) To pay Agency debt, pay on debts secured by a prior lien, and pay on debts secured by a parity or subsequent lien if it is to the Agency's advantage;
(ii) To purchase or acquire property more suited to the borrower's needs, providing the Agency's security position is maintained; and
(iii) To develop or enlarge the facility if necessary to improve the borrower's debt-paying ability, place the operation on a sounder financial basis,
or further the loan objectives and purposes.
(b)
Sale of assets financed with Agency grants.
The requirements for the sale or disposition of assets financed with Agency grants are determined by the terms of the grant agreement, 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016, and 3019, and E.O. 12803, as applicable.
(c)
Release from liability.
If a borrower can no longer meet the objectives of the loan, the property may be sold. If the full amount of the borrower's debt is paid or assumed, the State Director may release the borrower from liability.
§ 1782.13
Transfer of security and assumption of loans.
It is the Agency's policy to approve transfers and assumptions to transferees that will continue the original purpose of the loan. Assistant Administrator written concurrence is required when the transfer exceeds the State Director's loan approval authority. The transfer will be approved in accordance with the following requirements:
(a)
General requirements for transferees.
The fulfillment of the following requirements for transfers will be determined by the approval official, in his or her discretion:
(1) The transferees must meet the eligibility requirements of 7 CFR part 1780 and provide the same information required in 7 CFR part 1780, subpart B, for application processing.
(2) The transfer will not be disadvantageous to the Government as determined by the approval official.
(3) If the Agency debt(s) exceeds the present market value of the security as determined by an appraisal, the transferee will assume an amount at least equal to the present market value.
(4) The Agency must concur in plans for disposition of funds in any reserve account, including project construction bank accounts. A reserve account may be considered as a transferable asset.
(5) The transferee will assume all of the borrower's responsibilities regarding loans. The transferee will also agree to accept the original loan conditions plus any conditions set forth by the Agency with regard to the transfer.
(6) A current appraisal will be completed to establish the present market value of the security when the full debt is not being assumed.
(7) There must be no lien, judgement, or similar claims of other parties against the Agency security being transferred unless the transferee is willing to accept such claims. The Agency must also determine that the claims will not prevent the transferee from repaying the Agency debt, meeting all operating and maintenance costs, and maintaining required reserves. The written consent of any other lienholder will be obtained where required.
(8) A letter of conditions establishing requirements to be met in connection with the transfer will be issued, and the transferee will be required to execute Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,” prior to closing of the transfer.
(9) The transferee will obtain insurance according to Agency requirements.
(10) The effective date of the transfer is the date the transfer is closed, which is the same date Form RD 1951-15, “Community Programs Assumption Agreement,” or other appropriate assumption agreement which is executed and delivered by all necessary parties.
(11) Title to all assets will be conveyed from the transferor to the transferee unless all parties concerned, including the Agency, agree upon other arrangements. All instruments of conveyance will contain the necessary nondiscrimination covenant as referred to in § 1782.5.
(12) If the transfer and assumption is to one or more members of the borrower's organization, there must not be a loss to the Government.
(13) The State Director is authorized to approve transfers to eligible transferees at the same interest rate as on the borrower's note(s) or bond(s). The maturity of the debt instrument for the assumed debt may not exceed the lesser of the repayment period authorized in 7 CFR part 1780 for a “new” loan or the expected life of the facility.
(14) Agency National Office concurrence is required for transfers not in compliance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (13) of this section.
(b)
Loan requirements for eligible transferees.
If a loan is evidenced and secured by a note and lien on real or chattel property, Form RD 1951-15, or other appropriate assumption agreement will be executed by the transferee. If a bond secures a loan, transfer documents will be developed by bond counsel and approved by the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), USDA.
(1) Loans being transferred and assumed may be combined when the security is the same, new terms are being provided, a new debt instrument will be issued, and the loans have the same interest rate and are for the same purpose. If applicable, 7 CFR part 1780 will govern the preparation of any new debt instruments required.
(2) A loan may be made in connection with a transfer if the transferee meets all eligibility and other requirements for the kind of loan being made. Such a loan will be considered as a separate loan and must be evidenced by a separate debt instrument. However, it is permissible to have one authorizing loan resolution or ordinance if permitted by State statutes.
(3) Any development funds remaining in a bank account that are not refunded to the Agency will be transferred to a bank account for the transferee. This will occur simultaneously with the closing of the transfer, and the funds will be used in completing planned development.
(c)
Release from liability.
Transferors may be released from liability when their debt is paid in full or when the debt is settled in accordance with § 1782.20 of this part.
(d)
Transfer of facility financed with Agency grants.
The requirements for the sale or disposition of assets financed with Agency grants are determined by the terms of the grant agreement, 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016, and 3019, and E.O. 12803, as applicable.
§ 1782.14
Protection of service areas—7 U.S.C. 1926(b).
(a) 7 U.S.C. 1926(b) was enacted to protect the service area of Agency borrowers with outstanding loans, or those loans sold in the sale of assets authorized by the “Joint Resolution Making Continuing Appropriations for the Fiscal Year 1987, Pub. L. 99-591, 100 Stat. 3341 (1986),” from loss of users due to actions or activities of other entities in the service area of the Agency financed system. Without this protection, other entities could extend service to users within the service area, and thereby undermine the purpose of the congressionally mandated water and waste loan and grant programs and jeopardize the borrower's ability to repay its Agency debt.
(b) Responsibility for initiating action in response to those actions prohibited by 7 U.S.C. 1926(b) rests with the borrower.
§ 1782.15
Mergers and consolidations.
Mergers and consolidations will be processed the same as a transfer and assumption, although approvals by the Agency will give consideration to the differences under the applicable law regarding the type of transaction under consideration and the unique facts involved in each transaction. Mergers occur when two or more entities combine in such a manner that only one remains in existence. Consolidations occur when two or more entities combine to form a new consolidated entity, and the original entities cease to exist. In both mergers and consolidations, the surviving or emerging entity acquires the assets and assumes the liabilities of the entity or entities that ceased to exist.
§ 1782.16
Defeasance of Agency indebtedness.
Defeasance, or amending outstanding loan instruments and agreements to permit defeasance of Agency debt instruments, is prohibited.
§ 1782.17
Parity lien.
In order for the Agency to agree to a parity lien position, the borrower must submit a written request to the servicing office.
(a) The written request for parity must contain the following items:
(1) An explanation of the purpose of the request for parity; amount of loan for which parity is requested; description of security property; type of security instrument; name and address of financial institution requesting the
transaction; and other information determined necessary by the servicing official to evaluate the request.
(2) Current financial statements or an audit, if available or determined necessary by the servicing official.
(3) An annual operating budget which projects income and expenses for a typical year's operation. If construction is involved, the budget must be projected through the first full year of operation following completion of the planned improvements.
(4) A copy of the proposed security instrument.
(5) A certification from the borrower that the Agency debt cannot be refinanced at reasonable rates and terms.
(6) An appraisal, when the primary security is real estate or determined necessary by the servicing official in order to determine the adequacy of loan security or repayment ability.
(7) A certification that any development work will comply with subpart C of part 1780 of this chapter.
(b) Requests for parity must comply with requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, requirements as specified in the bond or loan documents, the requirements as specified in 7 CFR part 1780, subpart D, and as provided in applicable State law.
(c) If the borrower has met all of the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the proposal is determined to be in the Government's interest, the Agency will then grant approval of the borrower's request for parity. The following factors will be considered in assessing whether the request is in the Government's interest:
(1) The value of the added assets compared with the amount of new debt to be secured;
(2) The value of the assets already pledged under the security documents, and any effects of the proposed transaction on the value of those assets;
(3) The ratio of the total outstanding debt secured under the security documents to the value of all assets pledged as security under the security documents;
(4) The borrower's ability to repay its debt owed to the Government;
(5) The overall financial viability of the borrower;
(6) The borrower's current relationship with the Agency (i.e. no defaults under the loan documents);
(7) Such other factors that may be relevant in individual cases, as determined by the Agency.
§ 1782.18
[Reserved]
§ 1782.19
Third party agreements.
The State Director may authorize third party operation, maintenance, and management of an Agency financed facility. The borrower's attorney must review the contract, management agreement, written lease, or other third party agreement and issue an opinion to the Agency as to their legal sufficiency. The borrower shall retain the legal authority necessary for owning, constructing, operating, and maintaining the facility.
§ 1782.20
Debt Settlement.
Pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1981, this section prescribes policies for debt settlement of Water and Waste Disposal loans; Watershed loans and advances; Resource Conservation and Development loans; and 306 (c) Water and Waste Facility loans. Within the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-134) is the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996. This law provides that any non-tax debt or claim owed to the United States that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days shall be turned over to the Secretary of the Treasury for appropriate action to collect or terminate collection actions on the debt or claim. Debt that is in litigation or foreclosure, with a collection agency or designated Federal debt collection center, or that will be disposed of under an asset sales program, is exempt from transfer to the Secretary.
(a)
General requirements for debt settlement.
(1) The debt or any extension thereof on which settlement is requested must be due and payable. The debt will be due and payable either under the terms of the note or other instrument, or by acceleration, unless the debt is to be cancelled without application under paragraph (e)(2) of this section or charged off under paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) Normally, all security will be disposed of prior to the date of application for debt settlement unless it is necessary to abandon security through the debt settlement process. In such cases, debt settlement may proceed if the servicing official determines that further collection efforts would be ineffective, uneconomical, and not in the best interests of the Government.
(3) Debtors will not be permitted to sell security and use the proceeds as part or all of a compromise/adjustment debt settlement offer.
(4) Requests for debt settlement will consist of Form RD 1956-1 “Application For Settlement of Indebtedness,” current financial information, description and estimated market value of collateral, and status of operation (i.e., number of users, compliance with environmental issues, etc.).
(5) Office of General Counsel (OGC) advice on compliance with State or Federal statutes that may affect the debt settlement action must be requested.
(b)
Debts ineligible for settlement.
Debts will not be settled if:
(1) Referral to the Office of Inspector General and/or to OGC is contemplated or pending because of suspected criminal violation,
(2) Civil action to protect the interest of the Government is contemplated or pending,
(3) An investigation for suspected fiscal irregularity is contemplated or pending, or
(4) The debtor requests settlement of a claim that has been referred to or a judgment obtained by the United States Attorney. The settlement offer and any related payment must be submitted directly to the United States Attorney for consideration.
(c)
Types of debt settlement.
Typically, debt settlement will be accomplished through compromise/adjustment, charge-off, or cancellation. Any debt remaining after the security has been liquidated, by sale or transfer, will be cancelled if there are no other assets from which to collect the debt. The servicing official will proceed with advice from OGC and the National Office, as required.
(d)
Compromise and adjustment.
Debts may be compromised or adjusted and security retained by the debtor, provided:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay the indebtedness in full,
(2) The debtor has offered an amount equal to the present fair market value of all security or facility financed, and
(3) The debtor has offered any additional amount that the debtor is able to pay.
(e)
Cancellation.
Non-judgment debts, regardless of the amount, may be cancelled with or without application by the debtor.
(1)
With application by the debtor.
Debts may be cancelled upon application of the debtor, subject to the following conditions:
(i) The servicing official furnishes a favorable recommendation concerning the cancellation;
(ii) There is no known security for the debt and the debtor has no other assets from which the debt could be collected;
(iii) The debtor is unable to pay any part of the debt, and has no reasonable prospect of being able to do so; and
(iv) The debt or any extension thereof is due and payable under the terms of the note or other instrument or due to acceleration by written notice prior to the date of application.
(2)
Without application by debtor.
Debts may be cancelled upon a favorable recommendation of the servicing official in the following instances:
(i)
Debtors discharged in bankruptcy.
If there is no security for the debt, debts discharged in bankruptcy shall be cancelled by the use of Form RD 1956-1. A copy of the Bankruptcy Court's Discharge Order must be attached.
(ii)
Impractical to obtain debtor's signature.
Debts may be cancelled if it is impractical to obtain a signed application and the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) of this section are met. Form RD 1956-1 will document the specific reason(s) why it was impossible or impracticable to obtain the signature of the debtor. If the debtor refused to sign the application, the reason(s) should be documented.
(f)
Charge-off
—(1)
Judgment debts.
Judgment debts, regardless of the amount, may be charged off without the debtor's signature upon a favorable
recommendation of the servicing official provided:
(i) The United States Attorney's file is closed, and
(ii) The requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, if applicable, have been met, or 2 years have elapsed since any collections were made on the judgment. The debtor must also have no equity in the property subject to the lien or upon which a lien can be obtained.
(2)
Non-judgment debts.
Debts that cannot be settled under other sections of this part may be charged off without the debtor's signature upon a favorable recommendation of the servicing official in the following instances:
(i) When OGC advises in writing that the claim is legally without merit or that evidence necessary to prove the claim in court cannot be provided; or
(ii) When there is no known security for the debt, the debtor has no other assets from which the debt could be collected, and the debtor:
(A) Is unable to pay any part of the debt and has no reasonable prospect of being able to do so; or
(B) Is able to pay part or all of the debt but refuses to do so, and OGC provides an opinion to the effect that the Government cannot enforce collection of a significant amount from assets or income.
§ 1782.21
[Reserved]
§ 1782.22
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law and is determined to be in the Government's interest. Requests for exceptions must be made in writing by the State Director and supported with documentation to explain the adverse effect on the Government's interest, propose alternative course(s) of action, and show how the adverse affect will be eliminated or minimized if the exception is granted. The exception decision will be documented in writing, signed by the Administrator, and retained in the files.
§ 1782.23
Use of Rural Development loans and grants for other purposes.
(a) If, after making a loan or a grant, the Administrator determines that the circumstances under which the loan or grant was made have sufficiently changed to make the project or activity for which the loan or grant was made available no longer appropriate, the Administrator may allow the borrower or grantee to use property (real and personal) purchased or improved with the loan or grant funds, or proceeds from the sale of property (real and personal) purchased with such funds, for another project or activity that:
(1) Will be carried out in the same area as the original project or activity;
(2) Meets the criteria for a loan or grant described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (Pub. L. 87-128), as amended; and
(3) Satisfies such additional requirements as are established by the Administrator.
(b) If the new use of the property is under the authority of another USDA Agency Administrator, the other Administrator will be consulted on whether the new use will meet the criteria of the other program. Since the new project or activity must be carried out in the same area as the original project or activity, a new rural area determination will not be necessary.
(c) Borrowers and grantees that wish to use the proceeds for other purposes may make their request through the appropriate Rural Development State Office. Permission to use this option will be exercised on a case-by-case-basis on applications submitted through the State Office to the Administrator for consideration. If the proposal is approved, the Administrator will issue a memorandum to the State Director outlining the conditions necessary to complete the transaction.
§§ 1782.24-1782.99
[Reserved]
§ 1782.100
OMB Control Number.
The information collection requirements in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) and assigned OMB Control Number 0572-0137.
Pt. 1783

# PART 1783—REVOLVING FUNDS FOR FINANCING WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECTS (REVOLVING FUND PROGRAM)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1783.1
What is the purpose of the Revolving Fund Program?
1783.2
What Uniform Federal Assistance Provisions apply to the Revolving Fund Program?
1783.3
What definitions are used in this regulation?
1783.4
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Revolving Loan Program Grants
1783.5
What are the eligibility criteria for grant recipients?
1783.6
When will applications for grants be accepted?
1783.7
What is the grant application process?
1783.8
What are the acceptable methods for submitting applications?
1783.9
What are the criteria for scoring applications?
1783.10
What is the grant agreement?
1983.11
What is the revolving loan fund?
1783.12
What are eligible uses of grant proceeds?
1783.13
What administrative expenses may be funded with grant proceeds?

# Subpart C—Revolving Loan Program Loans
1783.14
What are the eligibility criteria for RFP loan recipients?
1783.15
What are the terms of RFP loans?
1783.16
How will loans from the revolving fund be serviced?

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1926 (a)(2)(B).

# Source:
69 FR 59772, Oct. 6, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1783.1
What is the purpose of the Revolving Fund Program?
This part sets forth the policies and procedures for making grants to qualified private, non-profit entities to capitalize revolving funds for the purpose of providing financing to eligible entities for pre-development costs associated with proposed water and wastewater projects or with existing water and wastewater systems, and short-term costs incurred for replacement equipment, small-scale extension of services, or other small capital projects that are not part of the regular operations and maintenance activities of existing water and wastewater systems. An eligible entity is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this part to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
[85 FR 57081, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 1783.2
What Uniform Federal Assistance Provisions apply to the Revolving Fund Program?
(a) This program is subject to the general provisions that apply to all grants made by USDA and that are set forth in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
(b) This program is subject to the uniform administrative requirements that apply to all grants made by USDA to non-profit organizations and that are set forth in 2 CFR part 415.
(c) 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementing Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689 on debarment and suspension.
(d) This program is subject to 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying, prohibiting the use of appropriated funds to influence Congress or a Federal agency in connection with the making of any Federal grant and other Federal contracting and financial transactions.
(e) This program is subject to 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance), implementing the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8102).
[79 FR 76007, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 7698, Feb. 16, 2016]
§ 1783.3
What definitions are used in this regulation?
Administrative expenses
means expenses incurred by a grant recipient that are of the type more particularly described in § 1783.12.
Applicant
means a private, non-profit organization that applies for an RFP grant under this part.
CONACT
means the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.
Eligible entity
means an entity eligible to obtain a loan, loan guarantee or grant under paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 of section 306(a) the CONACT (codified at 7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(1) and (2)).
Funding opportunity announcement (FOA)
means a publicly available document by which a Federal agency makes know its intentions to award discretionary grants or cooperative agreements, usually as a result of competition for funds. FOA announcements may be known as program announcements, notices of funding availability, solicitations, or other names depending on the agency and type of program. FOA announcements can be found at
Grants.gov
in the Search Grants tab and on the funding agency's or program's website.
Grant agreement
means the contract between RUS and the grant recipient which sets forth the terms and conditions governing a particular grant awarded under this part.
Grant recipient
means a private, non-profit entity that has been awarded a grant under this part.
Loan recipient
means an eligible entity that has received an RFP loan.
Revolved funds
means the cash portion of the revolving loan fund that is not composed of RFP grant funds, including cash comprising repayments of RFP loans, fees relating to RFP loans and interest collected on RFP loans.
Revolving loan fund
means the loan fund established by the grant recipient to carry out the purposes of this part, such fund comprising the proceeds of an RFP grant and other related assets.
RFP
means Revolving Fund Program.
RFP grant
means a grant from RUS to a grant recipient under this part.
RFP loan
means a loan from a grant recipient using the direct or indirect proceeds of an RFP grant awarded under this part.
Rural and rural area
means a city, town or unincorporated area that has a population of no more than 10,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census).
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, a Federal agency delivering the USDA's Rural Development Utilities Program.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
[69 FR 59772, Oct. 6, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 9864, Feb. 24, 2015; 83 FR 45034, Sept. 5, 2018; 87 FR 38643, June 29, 2022]
§ 1783.4
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Revolving Loan Program Grants
§ 1783.5
What are the eligibility criteria for grant recipients?
(a) The applicant must be a private entity.
(b) The applicant must be organized as a non-profit entity.
(c) The applicant must have the legal capacity and lawful authority to perform the obligations of a grantee under this part.

# Example 1 to paragraph (c):
If the organization is incorporated as a non-profit corporation, it must have corporate authority under state law and its corporate charter to engage in the practice of making loans to legal entities.

# Example 2 to paragraph (c):
If the organization is an unincorporated association, state law may prevent the organization from entering into binding contracts, such as a grant agreement.
(d) The applicant must have sufficient expertise and experience in making and servicing loans to assure the likelihood that the objectives of this part can be achieved.
§ 1783.6
When will applications for grants be accepted?
A FOA will be posted to
www.Grants.gov
in fiscal years that funds are available for this program. The FOA will establish the period during which applications for such funds may be submitted for consideration.
[83 FR 45034, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1783.7
What is the grant application process?
(a) The applicant must complete and submit the following items to RUS to apply for a grant under this part:
(1) Application for Federal Assistance:
Standard Form 424;
(2) Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs:
Standard Form 424A;
(3) Assurances—Non-Construction Programs:
Standard Form 424B;
(4) Evidence of applicant's legal existence and authority in the form of certified copies of organizational documents and a certified list of directors and officers with their respective terms;
(5) Evidence of tax exempt status, and
(6) Most recent annual audit conducted by an independent auditor.
(b) The applicant must submit a written work plan that demonstrates the ability of the applicant to make and service loans to eligible entities under this program and the feasibility of the applicant's lending program to meet the objectives of this part.
(c) The applicant should submit a narrative establishing the basis for any claims that it has substantial expertise in making and servicing loans. The Secretary will give priority to an applicant that demonstrates it has substantial experience of this type.
(d) The applicant may submit such additional information as it elects to support and describe its plan for achieving the objectives of the part.
§ 1783.8
What are the acceptable methods for submitting applications?
(a) Applications for RFP grants may be submitted by U.S. Mail. Applications submitted by mail must be addressed as follows: Rural Utilities Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1548, Washington, DC 20250-1548. The outside of the application should be marked: “Attention: Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs.” Applications submitted by mail must be postmarked not later than the filing deadline to be considered during the period for which the application was submitted.
(b) In lieu of submitting an application by U.S. Mail, an applicant may file its application electronically by using the Federal Government's eGrants Web site (Grants.gov) at
http://www.grants.gov.
Applicants should refer to instructions found on the Grants.gov Web site for procedures for registering and using this facility. Applicants who have not previously registered on Grants.gov should allow a sufficient number of business days to complete the process necessary to be qualified to apply for Federal Government grants using electronic submissions. Electronic submissions must be filed not later than the filing deadline to be considered during the period for which the application was submitted.
(c) The methods of submitting applications may be changed from time to time to reflect changes in addresses and electronic submission procedures Applicants should refer to the most recent FOA for notice of any such changes. In the event of any discrepancy, the information contained in the FOA must be followed. In the event of any discrepancy, the information contained in the notice must be followed.
[69 FR 59772, Oct. 6, 2004, as amended at 83 FR 45034, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1783.9
What are the criteria for scoring applications?
(a) Applications that are incomplete or ineligible will be returned to the applicant, accompanied by a statement explaining why the application is being returned.
(b) Promptly after an application period closes, all applications that are complete and eligible will be ranked competitively based on the following scoring criteria:
(1) Degree of expertise and successful experience in making and servicing commercial loans, with a successful record, for the following number of full years:
(i) At least 1 but less than 3 years—5 points
(ii) At least 3 but less than 5 years—10 points
(iii) At least 5 but less than 10 years—20 points
(iv) 10 or more years—30 points
(2) Extent to which the work plan demonstrates a well thought out, comprehensive approach to accomplishing the objectives of this part, clearly defines who will be served by the project, clearly articulates the problem/issues to be addressed, identifies the service area to be covered by the RFP loans, and appears likely to be sustainable. Up to 40 points.
(3) Percentage of applicant contributions. Points allowed under this paragraph will be based on written evidence of the availability of funds from sources other than the proceeds of an RFP grant to pay part of the cost of a loan recipient's project. In-kind contributions will not be considered. Funds from other sources as a percentage of the RFP grant and points corresponding to such percentages are as follows:
(i) Less than 20%—ineligible
(ii) At least 20% but less than 50%—10 points
(iii) 50% or more—20 points
(4) Extent to which the goals and objectives are clearly defined, tied to the work plan, and are measurable. Up to 15 points.
(5) Lowest ratio of projected administrative expenses to loans advanced. Up to 10 points.
(6) The evaluation methods for considering loan applications and making RFP loans are specific to the program, clearly defined, measurable, and are consistent with program outcomes. Up to 20 points.
(7) Administrator's discretion, considering such factors as creative outreach ideas for marketing RFP loans to rural residents; the amount of funds requested in relation to the amount of needs demonstrated in the work plan; previous experiences demonstrating excellent utilization of a revolving loan fund grant; and optimizing the use of agency resources. Up to 10 points.
(c) All qualifying applications under this part will be scored based on the criteria contained in this section. Awards will be made based on the highest ranking applications and the amount of financial assistance available for RFP grants. All applicants will be notified of the results in writing on form AD-622.
§ 1783.10
What is the grant agreement?
RUS and the grant recipient will enter into a contract setting forth the terms and conditions governing a particular RFP grant award. RUS will furnish the form of grant agreement. No funds awarded under this part shall be disbursed to the grant recipient before the grant agreement is binding and RUS has received a fully executed counterpart of the grant agreement.
§ 1783.11
What is the revolving loan fund?
The grant recipient shall establish and maintain a revolving loan fund for the purposes set forth in § 1783.12. The revolving loan fund shall be comprised of revolving loan fund grant funds and the grant recipient's contributed funds. All revolving loan fund loans made to loan recipients shall be drawn from the revolving loan fund. All revolving loan fund loans shall be serviced and the revolving loan fund maintained, in accordance with this part and applicable law.
§ 1783.12
What are eligible uses of grant proceeds?
(a) Grant proceeds shall be used solely for the purpose of establishing the revolving loan fund to provide loans to eligible entities for:
(1) Pre-development costs associated with proposed water and wastewater projects or with existing water and wastewater systems, and
(2) Short-term costs incurred for replacement equipment, small-scale extension of services, or other small capital projects that are not part of the regular operations and maintenance activities of existing water and wastewater systems.
(b) A grant recipient may not use grant funds in any manner inconsistent with the terms of the grant agreement.
§ 1783.13
What administrative expenses may be funded with grant proceeds?
RFP grant funds may not be used for any purposes not described in § 1783.12, including, without limitation, payment or reimbursement of any of the grant recipient's administrative costs or expenses. Administrative expenses may, however, be paid or reimbursed from
revolving loan fund assets that are not RFP grant funds, including revolved funds and cash originally contributed by the grant recipient.

# Subpart C—Revolving Fund Program Loans
§ 1783.14
What are the eligibility criteria for RFP loan recipients?
(a) A loan recipient must be an eligible entity as defined in § 1783.3.
(b) The loan recipient must be unable to finance the proposed project from their own resources or through commercial credit at reasonable rates and terms.
(c) The loan recipient must have or will obtain the legal authority necessary for owning, constructing, operating and maintaining the proposed service or facility, and for obtaining, giving security for, and repaying the proposed loan.
(d) The project funded by the proceeds of an RFP loan must be located in, or the services provided as the result of such project must benefit, rural areas.
§ 1783.15
What are the terms of RFP loans?
(a) RFP loans under this part—
(1) Shall have an interest rate that is determined by the grant recipient and approved by RUS;
(2) Shall have a terms not to exceed 10 years; and
(3) Shall not exceed the lesser of $200,000 or 75 percent of the total cost of a project. The total outstanding balance for all loans under this program to any one entity shall not exceed $200,000.
(b) The grant recipient must set forth the RFP loan terms in written documentation signed by the loan recipient.
(c) Grant recipients must develop and use RFP loan documentation that conforms to the terms of this part, the grant agreement, and the laws of the state or states having jurisdiction.
[69 FR 59772, Oct. 6, 2004, as amended at 86 FR 14526, Mar. 17, 2021]
§ 1783.16
How will the loans given from the revolving fund be serviced?
The grant recipient shall be responsible for servicing all loans, to include preparing loan agreements, processing loan payments, reviewing financial statements and debt reserves balances, and other responsibilities such as enforcement of loan terms. Loan servicing will be in accordance with the work plan approved by the Agency when the grant is awarded for as long as any loan made in whole or in part with Agency grant funds is outstanding.
Pt. 1784

# PART 1784—RURAL ALASKAN VILLAGE GRANTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1784.1
Purpose.
1784.2
Definitions.
1784.3
Objective.
1784.4-1784.7
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Grant Requirements
1784.8
Eligibility.
1784.9
Grant amount.
1784.10
Eligible grant purposes.
1784.11
Restrictions.
1784.12-1784.15
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Application Processing
1784.16
General.
1784.17
Application for Planning grants.
1784.18
Application for Pre-development grants.
1784.19
Application for Construction grants.
1784.20
Applications accepted from DEC or ANTHC.
1784.21
Other forms and certifications.
1784.22
Other requirements.
1784.23
Lead Agency Environmental Review.
1784.24-1784.25
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Grant Processing
1784.26
Planning, development, and procurement.
1784.27
Grant closing and disbursement of funds.
1784.28
Grantee accounting methods, management reporting, and audits.
1784.29
Grant servicing and accountability.
1784.30
Subsequent grants.
1784.31
Exception authority.
1784.32-1784.34
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Design, Procurement, Construction, and Inspection
1784.35
General.
1784.36
Procurement by applicants eligible under this part.
1784.37
Procurement of recovered materials.
1784.38-1784.99
[Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1926d.

# Source:
80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1784.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the policies and procedures that will apply when the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) makes grants under the Rural Alaska Village Grant (RAVG) program (7 U.S.C. 1926d) to native villages in Alaska. The grants will be provided directly to a native village or jointly with either The State of Alaska, Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) or The Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium (ANTHC) for the benefit of native villages in Alaska.
[85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to subparts A through E of this part.
ANTHC
means the Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium.
CONACT
means the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.
DEC
means the State of Alaska, Department of Environmental Conservation.
Dire sanitation conditions
means:
(1) Recurring instances of illness reasonably attributed to waterborne communicable disease have been documented or insufficient access to clean water creates a persistent threat of water-washed diseases; or
(2) No community-wide water and sewer system exists and individual residents must haul water to or human waste from their homes and/or use pit privies; or
(3) An appropriate federal agency (such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) or regulatory Agency of the State of Alaska determines that the drinking water and/or sewer system does not meet current regulatory requirements.
Grant recipient
means an applicant that has been awarded a Rural Alaskan Village Grant under this part.
IHS
means the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Indian Health Service.
Native Villages in Alaska
means a Native village in Alaska which meets the definition of a village as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
Owner
means Grant recipient.
RAVG
means Rural Alaskan Village Grant, a grant awarded by RUS, DEC, and/or ANTHC to a grant recipient under this part.
RD
means Rural Development, a federal agency mission area delivering the United States Department of Agriculture's programs to rural communities.
Recipient community
means a community that has been awarded a grant under this part.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, a federal agency mission area delivering the United States Department of Agriculture's rural utilities programs.
Short-lived assets
means repair and replacement items expended each year that are not included in the annual Operational and Maintenance expenses as annual repair and maintenance.
Statewide nonmetropolitan median household income (SNMHI)
means the median household income of the State's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
VSW
means Village Safe Water Program authorized under the Village Safe Water Act, Alaska Statute Title 46, Chapter 7 (AS 46.07).
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.3
Objective.
The objective of the RAVG Program is to assist the residents of rural or native villages in Alaska to provide for the development and construction of water and wastewater systems to improve the health and sanitation conditions in those villages through removal of dire sanitation conditions.
§§ 1784.4-1784.7
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Grant Requirements
§ 1784.8
Eligibility.
(a) Grants may be made to the following eligible applicants:
(1) Native village in Alaska; or
(2) DEC on behalf of one or more recipient communities in Alaska; or
(3) ANTHC on behalf of one or more recipient communities in Alaska.
(b) Grants made to DEC or ANTHC may be obligated through a master letter of conditions for more than one recipient community; however, DEC or ANTHC together with each individual recipient community beneficiary shall execute a grant agreement on a project by project basis. Expenditures for projects will be based on specific scope and be requested on a project by project basis.
(c) For grants proposed to be administered directly by a community, the responsibility to meet the requirements outlined in this part will be met by the community. RUS will be the lead agency on direct administration projects.
(d) The median household income of the recipient community cannot exceed 110 percent of the statewide nonmetropolitan household income (SNMHI), according to US Census American Community Survey. Alaska census communities considered to be high cost isolated areas or “off the road systems” (
i.e.,
communities that cannot be accessed by roads) may utilize up to 150 percent of SNMHI.
(e) For design and construction projects: A dire sanitation condition as defined in § 1784.2 must exist in the village served by the proposed project. For those projects identified under paragraphs (1) and (3) of the dire sanitation definition in § 1784.2, a notice of violation, consent order or other regulatory action from the appropriate regulatory agency must be provided to document the dire sanitation condition. In cases where there is scientific evidence or reports with substantiated evidence of associated health issues, documentation may be accepted from an appropriate federal agency.
(f) In individual cases where a proposed project does not meet the definition of “Dire sanitation condition” in § 1784.2, an applicant may request a special review and eligibility determination from the RUS Administrator in cases where the applicant is able to satisfactorily demonstrate that a water or sewer system is deficient and negatively impacts the health or safety of the community. The decision to review an eligibility determination request and any determinations made subject to this paragraph are not subject to administrative appeal.
(g) In order for an eligible applicant to receive a grant under the Rural Alaska Village Grant program, the State of Alaska shall provide 25 percent in matching funds from non-Federal sources.
(h) In processing grants through DEC and ANTHC, a public meeting must be held to inform the general public regarding the development of any proposed project. Documentation of the public meeting must be received with construction applications.
(1) A notice of intent must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the proposed area to be served.
(2) For projects where there are no newspapers of general circulation, a posting of the notice in a community building (post office, washeteria, clinic, etc.) frequented by village residents may be used to meet the requirement. This alternative form of notice has been authorized by the RUS Administrator.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.9
Grant amount.
Grants will be made for up to 75 percent of the project development and/or construction costs, which does not include project administrative costs. Pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1926d, the State of Alaska shall provide 25 percent in matching funds from non-Federal sources.
§ 1784.10
Eligible grant purposes.
Grant funds may be used for the following purposes:
(a) To pay reasonable costs associated with providing potable water or waste disposal services to residents of recipient communities. Reasonable
costs include construction, planning, pre-development costs (including engineering, design, and rights-of-way establishment), and technical assistance as further defined in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1)
Planning.
Grants can be made specifically for planning report costs (including Master Plans, Feasibility Studies, and Detection or Source Studies) associated with the prioritization process.
(2)
Pre-development.
Grants can be made for pre-development costs such as preliminary engineering, environmental, application development, review and establishment of rights-of-way and easement, and full construction design for up to $1,000,000 for each eligible village. Prior to approving additional pre-development costs, a preliminary engineering report (PER) and/or approved PER like document, such as the Cooperative Project Agreement and supplemental documents from ANTHC and an environmental report shall be reviewed and concurred by RUS, DEC, ANTHC, and IHS.
(3)
Training and technical assistance.
Grant funding for technical assistance and training will be available in accordance with Section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926d) and appropriations current at the time of application. Grants for this purpose will be processed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1775.
(b) To pay reasonable costs associated with the use of a recipient community's equipment during construction. (
i.e.
maintenance, minor repairs, and operational costs). A cost accounting system that is accurate to track expenses must be in place. Use of ANTHC or State of Alaska equipment fleet rental costs will also be eligible. RUS concurrence in the allocation method is required.
(c)
Individual installations.
(1) Individual service installation relates to residential homes only and does not include public facilities or commercial facilities. The only exception to serving a public facility is when the facility is necessary for the successful operation and maintenance of the water or sanitation system (
i.e.
the facility utilized for accepting utility payments and/or holding public meetings for the utility system).
(2) Individual home installations, including wells, septic system, flush tank and haul, in-house plumbing, etc., may be provided. The following guidelines must be followed for individual installations. A certification will be required with the application that provides documentation of the following:
(i) The residents are unable to afford to make the improvements on their own.
(ii) An agreement outlining the installation, operation, and maintenance of facilities must be in place.
(iii) An adequate method for denying service in the event of non-payment of user fees if such fees are required.
(iv) All residents of the community are treated equally.
(v) The improvements provided are reasonable and modest.
(vi) Legal authority (
i.e.
easements) is obtained to construct these improvements.
(vii) Documentation must be provided to RUS indicating the quantity and quality of the individual installations that may be developed; cost effectiveness of the individual facility compared with initial and long term user costs on a central system; health and pollution problems attributable to individual facilities; operational or management problems peculiar to individual installations; and permit of regulatory agency requirements.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.11
Restrictions.
Grant funds may
not
be used to:
(a) Pay any annual recurring costs that are considered to be operational expenses of a facility.
(b) Pay basic/rental fee or depreciation for the use of the recipient community's equipment.
(c) Purchase existing systems.
(d) Pay for items not associated with Rural Utilities Service's approved scope of work. This includes projects developed from other funding sources.
(e) Except as provided in this part, finance any public or commercial facility.
§§ 1784.12-1784.15
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Application Processing
§ 1784.16
General.
(a) DEC and ANTHC utilize the National Indian Health Service, Sanitation Deficiency System (SDS) database as a comprehensive source of rural sanitation needs in Alaska. The database provides an inventory of the sanitation deficiencies including water, sewer, and solid waste facilities for existing homes. The sanitation deficiencies data are updated annually by DEC and ANTHC in consultation with the respective recipient communities. The SDS system is utilized in the RAVG program to help prioritize applications under the Village Safe Water Program.
(b) A prioritized list of projects will be developed each year by RUS, DEC, and ANTHC applying prioritization criteria to the sanitation needs database. Prioritization criteria established by the RUS, DEC, ANTHC, and IHS will be based, at a minimum, on relative health impacts, drinking water and wastewater regulatory requirements, the sanitation conditions in each community and project readiness. The VSW Program process and associated prioritization criteria will be used to prioritize projects and place them on a priority list. The process will be reviewed and approved by RUS, DEC, ANTHC, and IHS. Projects will be funded from the priority list as they meet established planning, design, and construction requirements, subject to available funding.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.17
Application for Planning grants.
(a) Entities identified in § 1784.8 may submit a completed Standard Form 424 to apply for funding to establish a Planning report for a recipient community.
(b) Funding for planning grants will be allocated annually by RUS, DEC, and ANTHC according to the prioritization list described in § 1784.16(b) of this part.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.18
Application for Pre-development grants.
(a) Entities identified in § 1784.8 of this part may submit a completed Standard Form 424, Standard Form 424A, and Standard Form 424B to apply for funding for pre-development costs. Pre-development costs are described in § 1784.10 (a)(1)(iii) of this part.
(b) Funding for pre-development grants will be allocated annually by RUS, DEC, and ANTHC according to the prioritization list described in § 1784.16(b) of this part.
(c) Projects submitted for design only under the pre-development grant, must have RUS approval of a planning or pre-development report prior to consideration for funding.
§ 1784.19
Application for Construction grants.
(a) An application for a construction grant shall include:
(1) Completed Standard Form 424, Standard Form 424C and Standard Form 424D. Current versions of these forms may be found at Grants.gov.
(2) Preliminary Engineering Report, Environmental Report, or approved PER like document, including ANTHC's Cooperative Project Agreement and associated supplemental attachments;
(3) Population and median household income of the area to be served;
(4) Description of the project; and
(5) Approved business plan, including resolution adopting the plan, for the recipient community. The business plan will outline the proposed operation and management costs, rate structures, short-lived asset schedule and associated materials.
(6) Projects submitted for construction must have RUS and ANTHC or DEC approval of a planning or pre-development report prior to consideration for funding.
(b) Funding for construction grants will be allocated annually by RUS, DEC, and ANTHC according to the prioritization list described in § 1784.16(b) of this part.
§ 1784.20
Applications accepted from DEC or ANTHC.
(a) In cases where applications are accepted from DEC or ANTHC, one master application may be submitted covering recipient communities to be funded, however, each individual project will be broken out and (for construction grants) each will require its own PER, or PER-like document and Environmental Report.
(b) Each project will be processed individually with individual grant agreements, as appropriate.
(c) Expenditures for projects will be based on specific scope and be requested on a project by project basis.
(d) Funding amounts, as indicated in each grant agreement and letter of conditions, will be for the approved scope of work.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 23212, Apr. 27, 2020]
§ 1784.21
Other forms and certifications.
(a) Referenced bulletins, instructions and forms are for use in administering grants made under this part and are available from any USDA/Rural Development office or the Rural Utilities Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500.
(b) Applicants will be required to submit the following items to the processing office, upon notification from the processing office to proceed with further development of the full application:
(1) Form RD 400-1, Equal Opportunity Agreement;
(2) Form RD 400-4, Assurance Agreement;
(3) Form AD 1047, Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension and other Responsibility Matters;
(4) Form AD 1048, Certification regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions;
(5) Form AD 1049, Certification regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative I for Grantees Other Than Individuals;
(6) RUS Form 266, Compliance Assurance form or written self-certification statement—Civil Rights Compliance;
(7) Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities;
(8) RD Instruction 1940-Q, Exhibit A-1, Certifications for Contracts, Grants, and Loans (Regarding Lobbying); and
(9) Certification regarding prohibited tying arrangements. Applicants that provide electric service must provide the Agency a certification that they will not require users of a water or waste facility financed under this part to accept electric service as a condition of receiving assistance.
(c) In the case of grants made to DEC and ANTHC, DEC and ANTHC will certify that the above requirements are included in their agreements with the Villages. The certification and forms listed above must be provided from DEC and ANTHC on an annual basis for utilization in proposed applications.
(d) When favorable action is not taken on an application, the applicant will be notified in writing by the Rural Development State Program Official of the reasons why the request was not favorably considered. Notification to the applicant will state that a review of this decision by the Agency may be requested by the applicant in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
(e) When favorable action is taken on an application, the applicant will be notified by a letter which establishes conditions that must be understood and agreed to before further consideration may be given to the application. In cases where a master application is submitted by DEC or ANTHC, the letter of conditions will include all projects, and their funding amounts, included in the master application on which favorable action will be taken. The letter of conditions does not constitute loan and/or grant approval, nor does it ensure that funds are or will be available for the project. The grant will be considered approved on the date a signed copy of Form RD 1940-1, Request for Obligation of Funds, is mailed to the applicant.
§ 1784.22
Other requirements.
Other Federal statutes and regulations are applicable to grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
(a) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A—USDA implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
(b) 7 CFR part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129 regarding debt collection.
(c) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.
(d) 7 CFR part 1970.
(e) 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E—Civil Rights Compliance Requirements.
(f) 2 CFR part 200—Uniform Guidance.
(g) 2 CFR part 215—General Program Administrative Requirements.
(h) 2 CFR part 418—New Restrictions on Lobbying, prohibiting the use of appropriated funds to influence Congress or a Federal agency in connection with the making of any Federal grant and other Federal contracting and financial transactions.
(i) 2 CFR parts 400 and 415—USDA implementation of Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations.
(j) 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR 417, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Non-procurement); 2 CFR part 182, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR 421, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Federal Assistance), implementing Executive Order 12549 on debarment and suspension and the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701).
(k) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F—USDA implementation of audit requirements for non-federal organizations.
(l) 29 U.S.C. 794, section 504—Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute), prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in federally assisted programs.
(m) Floodplains. The agencies follow the eight-step decision-making process referenced in Section 2(a) of Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, when undertaking actions located in floodplains. Pursuant to E. O. 11988, the IHS uses a Class Review process to exclude certain actions from further review under the eight-step process. For all actions that do not qualify for IHS Class Review, the eight-step process shall be completed. All practicable measures to minimize development in floodplains and reduce the risk to human safety, health, and welfare shall be followed, including elevating a new water or wastewater facility at least one foot above the base flood elevation as determined by the Army Corp of Engineers, other qualified survey, or best available data. Since they are considered “critical facilities” as defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), water and wastewater facilities may be subject to more stringent standards such as relocation out of the floodplain, higher elevation, or other flood proofing measures. If an area has been designated a floodplain by FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) coverage, flood insurance shall be required for facilities located in flood plains. If an area has no FEMA FIRM coverage the requirement to obtain flood insurance does not apply. If a community is located within a mapped FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) 100-year floodplain, but is not a participating National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) community member, then RUS may not fund the project according to 7 CFR 1806 Subpart B.
(n) Project planning, including engineering reports and environmental review documentation, to the maximum extent feasible, must address all water or waste disposal needs for a community in a coordinated manner with other community development projects and take into consideration information presented in available community strategic and comprehensive plans. Any reports or designs completed with funds must be consistent with sound engineering practices and USDA regulations, including 7 CFR part 1970.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 11029, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1784.23
Lead Agency Environmental Review.
(a) The Agency designated as the lead agency for the purposes of this grant program, will fulfill and agree to be responsible for complying with lead agency requirements for:
(1) National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as outlined in 40 CFR 1501.5, Lead agencies;
(2) National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) Section 106 review process
as outlined in 36 CFR part 800.2(a)(2) Lead Federal agency; and
(3) Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act as outlined in 50 CFR 402.07, Designation of lead agency.
(b) All environmental findings and determinations made by the lead agency represent those of the cooperating agencies and will be completed in accordance with the procedures outlined in this section.
(c) RUS will, to the extent possible and in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.2 and 7 CFR part 1970, participate with DEC, IHS, and ANTHC to cooperatively or jointly prepare environmental review documents so that one document will comply with all applicable laws.
(d) For projects administered by DEC and ANTHC, RUS agrees to participate as a cooperating agency in accordance with 40 CFR 1501.6 and 7 CFR part 1970, and relies upon those agencies' procedures for implementing NEPA as further described below.
(e) The lead agency will indicate that RUS is a cooperating agency in all NEPA-related notices published for the proposed action.
(f) A construction grant may not be approved until all environmental findings and determinations have been made according to the following:
(1)
Rural Utilities Service Lead Agency.
If RUS is the lead agency, the environmental review process, including all findings and determinations, will be completed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(2)
DEC Lead Agency.
In the event DEC is the lead agency, the environmental review process, including all findings and determinations will be completed in accordance with the environmental review process outlined in Appendix A to the June 15, 2011 MOU.
(3)
IHS Lead Agency.
For projects administered by ANTHC, IHS will be the lead agency for the environmental review process, including all findings and determinations. The environmental review process, including all findings and determinations will be completed in accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services policies and procedures in General Administration Manual, Part 30, Council on Environmental Quality regulations at 40 CFR 1500-1508 and with procedures published by IHS in the
Federal Register,
Vol. 58, No.3, page 569, January 6, 1993. The ANTHC shall notify the funding agencies and the IHS if a change in the project or project scope occurs which could change any previously prepared environmental findings or determinations or could adversely impact the environment. In the event of an unanticipated discovery of a historic property or other environmental resource, the ANTHC shall stop construction activity in the area of the discovery and notify the appropriate authority and the IHS. Mitigation options resulting from unanticipated discoveries, including but not limited to changes in project scope or cancellation of the project will be evaluated by the funding agencies in collaboration with the ANTHC and IHS. If appropriate and necessary, mitigation plans will be negotiated and approved by all parties. When the funding agencies have approved a mitigation plan and IHS has reaffirmed its environmental review process, including all findings and determinations, the ANTHC will be authorized to initiate the agreed to mitigation plan. The IHS shall bear no mitigation costs as it is not a funding agency for projects under this part.
(g) RUS will have an opportunity to review the IHS or DEC environmental review documents, including all findings and determinations to ensure consistency with this part and agency procedures. Where an Environmental Assessment (EA) or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is required by the lead agency's environmental policies and procedures, the lead agency will ensure that the scope and content of the EA or EIS satisfies the statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to RUS. Where an EA and EIS is not required under the applicable lead agency's procedures for implementing NEPA, the review by RUS will be limited to ensure that the applicable lead agency's procedures were followed.
(h) The National Historic Preservation Act Section 106 review requirements completed for ANTHC administered projects will be carried out in accordance with the process described in Appendix B of the June 15, 2011 MOU.
[80 FR 52609, Sept. 1, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 11029, Mar. 2, 2016]
§§ 1784.24-1784.25
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Grant Processing
§ 1784.26
Planning, development, and procurement.
(a) If RUS is the lead agency and will provide oversight for the project, a certification should be obtained from the State agency, or the Environmental Protection Agency if the State does not have primacy, stating that the proposed improvements will be in compliance with requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act and/or Clean Water Act and the applicable requirements of 2 CFR part 200 and 2 CFR part 400.
(b) Applicants that will bid and construct a project in phases, must provide assurance that the full scope of each specific phase of the project will be functional. In the event that the actual cost is anticipated to exceed the funding originally allocated for the project, all potential options will be reviewed and considered, including but not limited to acquiring additional funds or a reduction in project scope. RUS, ANTHC, and VSW will ensure that all items that were funded and within the scope of the project, including all phases, are functional when all funds have been disbursed.
§ 1784.27
Grant closing and disbursement of Funds.
(a) The Water and Waste Grant Agreement for rural and native villages in Alaska, or other approved form(s) will be executed by all applicants. To view all forms and agreements, refer to the USDA RUS Water and Environmental Programs Web site.
(b) Grant funds will be distributed from the Treasury at the time they are actually needed by the applicant using multiple advances. Instructions regarding disbursement of funds can be found in the Letter of Conditions.
(c) If there is a significant reduction in project costs, the applicant's funding needs will be reassessed. Decreases in RUS funds will be based on revised project costs and current number of users. Other factors, including RUS regulations used at the time of grant approval, will continue to be used as published at the time of grant approval. Obligated grant funds not needed to complete the proposed project will be deobligated. In such cases applicable forms, the letter of conditions, and other items will be revised.
§ 1784.28
Grantee accounting methods, management reporting, and audits.
(a) All Agency grantees will follow the reporting requirements as outlined in 7 CFR 1782.
(b) Other reporting requirements are as follows:
(1) During the construction period, for the reporting of expenses incurred for projects under this part, the party responsible for the administration of the project will complete an audit report in accordance with § 1782.10 (which includes GAGAS and 2 CFR part 200 Subpart F “Audit Requirements”). RUS may request a copy of this report.
(2) After the construction period and for the life of the facility, the recipient community will be responsible to meet the requirements outlined in 2 CFR parts 200, 400, 415, 416, and 7 CFR part 1780.47 paragraphs a through d. These requirements must be outlined in funding documents from RUS, ANTHC, and VSW and in agreements with the recipient communities. RUS may request this information for the life of the facility.
(c) The requirements found in 2 CFR parts 200, 400, 415 and 416 shall apply to all grants made under the RAVG program and shall be set forth in the respective grant agreement where required.
§ 1784.29
Grant servicing and accountability.
(a) Grants will be serviced in accordance with 7 CFR part 1782.
(b) RUS reserves the right to request and review project files from grantees at any time.
(c) If at any time an application is determined ineligible, 7 CFR part 11 will be followed.
§ 1784.30
Subsequent grants.
Subsequent grants will be processed in accordance with the requirements set forth in this part. The initial and subsequent grants made to complete a previously approved project must comply with the maximum grant requirements set forth in§ 1784.8(f) of this part.
§ 1784.31
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law and is determined to be in the Government's best interest.
§§ 1784.32-1784.34
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Design, Procurement, Construction, and Inspection
§ 1784.35
General.
This subpart is specifically designed for use by owners including the professional or technical consultants or agents who provide assistance and services such as engineering, environmental, inspection, financial, legal or other services related to planning, designing, bidding, contracting, and constructing water and waste disposal facilities. The selection of engineers for a project design shall be done by a request for proposals by the applicant. These procedures do not relieve the owner of the contractual obligations that arise from the procurement of these services. For this subpart, an owner is defined as the grant recipient.
§ 1784.36
Procurement by applicants eligible under this part
(a) For applicants eligible under § 1784.8(a)(2) and (3), contracting and procurement activities will follow DEC or ANTHC policies, procedures and methods which are based on and shall follow Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (2 CFR part 200). In specifying materials, DEC and ANTHC will consider all materials normally suitable for the project based on sound engineering practices and project requirements.
(b) Contracts for procurement must contain applicable contract provisions listed at Appendix II to 2 CFR part 200.
(c) For grants proposed to be administered directly by applicants eligible under § 1784.8(a)(1), the requirements outlined in 7 CFR part 1780, subpart C will be met by those eligible applicants with the exception of the following requirements:
(1) Preliminary engineering reports and Environmental Reports (§ 1780.55). Refer to the requirements of this subpart and subpart C § 1784.22(n).
(2) Metering devices in § 1780.57(m).
(3) Utility Purchase Contracts in § 1780.62.
(4) Sewage treatment and bulk water sales contracts in § 1780.63.
§ 1784.37
Procurement of recovered materials.
When a grant is made to the DEC, the state and its contractors must comply with section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The requirements of Section 6002 include procuring only items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the value of the quantity acquired during the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000; procuring solid waste management services in a manner that maximizes energy and resource recovery; and establishing an affirmative procurement program for procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA guidelines.
§§ 1784.38-1784.99
[Reserved]
Pt. 1785

# PART 1785—LOAN ACCOUNT COMPUTATIONS, PROCEDURES AND POLICIES FOR ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—RUS Cushion of Credit Account Computations and Procedures
Sec.
1785.66
General.
1785.67
Definitions.
1785.68
RUS cushion of credit payment accounts.
1785.69
Cushion of credit payment account computations.
1785.70
Application of Rural Electric and Telephone Revolving Fund (RETRF) cushion of credit payments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
Title I, Subtitle D, sec. 1403, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, Pub. L. 100-203; Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
).
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—RUS Cushion of Credit Account Computations and Procedures

# Source:
54 FR 13669, Apr. 5, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1785.66
General.
This subpart sets forth policies and procedures on the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) cushion of credit payments program. The cushion of credit payments program will be maintained only for accounts in existence on December 20, 2018. Once an account has been closed, it may not be reopened. Deposits in the borrower's cushion of credit account may only be used as described in this subpart and applicable law.
[87 FR 74502, Dec. 6, 2022]
§ 1785.67
Definitions.
Accumulated (deferred) interest
means interest allowed to accumulate up to, and including, the basis date of RUS notes covering loans approved before June 5, 1957. The accumulated interest is payable in equal periodic installments over the remaining life of the notes.
Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Advance payment
means a voluntary unscheduled payment on an RUS note, made prior to October 2, 1987, credited to the advance payment account of a borrower.
Cushion of Credit Payment
means a voluntary unscheduled payment on an RUS note made after October 1, 1987, credited to the cushion of credit account of a borrower.
Current interest
means interest payable periodically as it accrues.
Fund
means the Rural Electrification and Telephone Revolving Fund established pursuant to the Act.
Interest credit
means interest earned on balances in advance payment or cushion of credit accounts. Since the periodic installments are established by the terms of the notes, the interest credits cannot serve to change the total amount of each installment; therefore, an amount equal to the interest credits is added to the principal installment due. On receipt of the full installments, amounts equal to the interest credits (the principal offsets) are added to the respective advance payment accounts.
Prepayment
means a voluntary unscheduled payment which the borrower instructs RUS to apply directly and immediately to the principal of an RUS note.
RUS notes
means those notes, bonds, or other obligations evidencing indebtedness created by loans made by RUS pursuant to titles I, II, or III of the Act.
Subaccount
means the
Rural Economic Development Subaccount
established pursuant to the Act as part of the Fund.
§ 1785.68
RUS cushion of credit payment accounts.
Effective December 20, 2018, no new cushion of credit accounts may be established. Deposits remaining in the cushion of credit accounts will bear an interest rate equal to the one-year Treasury interest rate in effect on October 1st for each year thereafter.
[87 FR 74502, Dec. 6, 2022]
§ 1785.69
Cushion of credit payment account computations.
(a)
Deposits.
Cushion of credit deposits are credited to the borrowers' cushion of credit accounts as of December 20, 2018, with no further deposits accepted after that date.
(b)
Interest.
Interest at the rate provided for in § 1785.68 will be credited on a quarterly basis to cushion of credit accounts. Interest earned will appear as a reduction in the interest billed on the borrower's RUS notes and will be separately shown on RUS Form 694, “Statement of Interest and Principal Due.”
[87 FR 74502, Dec. 6, 2022]
§ 1785.70
Application of Rural Electric and Telephone Revolving Fund (RETRF) cushion of credit payments.
(a) If a maturing installment on an RUS note or a note which has been guaranteed by RUS is not received by its due date, funds will be withdrawn from the borrower's cushion of credit account and applied as of the installment due date beginning with the oldest of such notes as follows: first, to current interest then due on all notes; second, to the accumulated interest due, if any, on all notes; and third, to the principal then due on all notes.
(b) A borrower may reduce the balance of its cushion of credit account only if the amount obtained from the reduction is used to make scheduled payments on loans made or guaranteed under the Act.
(c) The Administrator of RUS may, consistent with law, authorize the requested release of cushion of credit deposits to a borrower when the cushion of credit balance will exceed the total value of the borrower's outstanding loans made or guaranteed by RUS.
(d) Once the balance in an individual cushion of credit account reaches zero, that cushion of credit account shall be closed. Once balances in all cushion of credit accounts reach zero, the cushion of credit program will be terminated.
(e) As the Rural Utilities Service phases out the cushion of credit program, the Agency may from time to time publish announcements in the
Federal Register,
or on its website related to the efficient administration of the cushion of credit program.
[87 FR 74502, Dec. 6, 2022]
Pt. 1786

# PART 1786—PREPAYMENT OF RUS GUARANTEED AND INSURED LOANS TO ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BORROWERS
Subpart A—General [Reserved]
1786.1-1786.24
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Prepayment of RUS Guaranteed Federal Financing Bank Loans Pursuant to Section 306(A) of the RE Act
Sec.
1786.25
Purpose.
1786.26
Policy.
1786.27
Definitions and rules of construction.
1786.28
Qualifications.
1786.29
Prepayment authority, program allocations, categories of prepayment applications and financially distressed borrowers' reserve.
1786.30
Processing procedure.
1786.31
Application procedure.
1786.32
Settlement procedure.
1786.33
Forms.
1786.34
Access to records of lenders, servicers, and trustees.
1786.35
Loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of RUS guarantee.
1786.36
Other prepayments.
1786.37
Application of regulation to previous prepayments.
1786.38
Judicial review.
1786.39-1786.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Special Discounted Prepayments on RUS Direct/Insured Loans
1786.50
Purpose.
1786.51
Definitions.
1786.52
Prepayment.
1786.53
Discounted present value.
1786.54
Eligibility criteria.
1786.55
Application procedure.
1786.56
Approval of applications.
1786.57
Prepayment agreement.
1786.58
Security.
1786.59
Loan fund audit.
1786.60
Closing.
1786.61
Other prepayments.
1786.62-1786.74
[Reserved]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Discounted Prepayments on RUS Notes in the Event of a Merger of Certain RUS Electric Borrowers
1786.95
Purpose.
1786.96
Definitions.
1786.97
Prepayment.
1786.98
Discounted present value.
1786.99
Eligibility criteria.
1786.100
Application procedure.
1786.101
Approval of application.
1786.102
Prepayment agreement.
1786.103
Security.
1786.104
Loan fund audit.
1786.105
Closing.
1786.106
Other prepayments.
Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 1786—Listing of Eligible Borrowers
Appendix B to Subpart E of Part 1786—Federal Reserve Statistical Release

# Subpart F—Discounted Prepayments on RUS Electric Loans
1786.150
Purpose.
1786.151
Definitions and rules of construction.
1786.152
Prepayments of RUS loans.
1786.153
Discounted present value.
1786.154
Qualified Notes.
1786.155
Eligible borrower.
1786.156
Application procedure.
1786.157
Approval of applications.
1786.158
Terms and conditions of prepayment agreement.
1786.159
Initial closing.
1786.160
Subsequent closings.
1786.161
Return of Qualified Notes and release of lien.
1786.162
Outstanding loan documents.
1786.163
Existing wholesale power contracts.
1786.164
Loan fund audit.
1786.165
Reporting.
1786.166
Approvals.
1786.167
Restrictions to additional RUS financing.
1786.168
Borrowers who prepaid under this part prior to October 21, 1992.
1786.169
Liability.
1786.170
Prepayment of loans approved after December 20, 1993. [Reserved]
1786.171-1786.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Refinancing and Prepayment of RUS Guaranteed FFB Loans Pursuant to Section 306(C) of the RE Act
1786.200
Purpose.
1786.201
Definitions and rules of construction.
1786.202
Prepayment and refinancing of RUS guaranteed FFB loans.
1786.203
Special considerations.
1786.204
Limitations.
1786.205
Application procedure.
1786.206
Refinancing note.
1786.207
Prepayment premium.
1786.208
Increased principal.
1786.209
Outstanding loan documents.
1786.210
Approvals.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901-950b; Title I, subtitle B, Pub. L. 99-509; Pub. L. 101-624, 104 Stat. 4051; Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178, (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
55 FR 1145, Jan. 11, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A—General [Reserved]
§§ 1786.1-1786.24
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Prepayment of RUS Guaranteed Federal Financing Bank Loans Pursuant to Section 306(A) of the RE Act

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901-950b; Title I, Subtitle B, Pub. L. 99-509; Title I, Pub. L. 100-202; Pub. L. 100-203; Title VI, Pub. L. 100-460; Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
).

# Source:
55 FR 1145, Jan. 11, 1990, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990.
§ 1786.25
Purpose.
This subpart contains the general regulations of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) for implementing the provisions of (a) section 306(A) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (RE Act); (b) section 633 of the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1988 (Pub. L. 100-202) (the continuing resolution); and (c) section 637 of the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 (Pub. L. 100-460) (the 1989 Appropriations Act) which permit, in certain circumstances, loans made by the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) and guaranteed by the Administrator of RUS to be prepaid by RUS electric and telephone borrowers by paying the outstanding principal balance due on the FFB loan, using a private loan with the existing RUS guarantees or using internally generated funds.
§ 1786.26
Policy.
It is the policy of RUS to facilitate the prepayment of FFB loans in accordance with the provisions of section 306(A) of the RE Act and section 633 of the continuing resolution as modified by section 637 of the 1989 Appropriations Act. Furthermore, consistent with the RE Act, the continuing resolution and the 1989 Appropriations Act, it is the policy of RUS to implement the objectives of the prepayment program in a manner which does not result in an increase in loan guarantee risk or an inappropriate increase in the administrative burden on RUS.
§ 1786.27
Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Administrator
means the Administrator of RUS.
Application Category
shall have the meaning set forth in § 1786.29(c).
Application period
means a period during which RUS is accepting applications to make prepayments pursuant to this subpart, and initially means:
(1) In the case of telephone borrowers, the period commencing on February 12, 1990 and ending on March 12, 1990;
(2) In the case of financially distressed borrowers, the period commencing October 1, 1990 and ending on July 30, 1993; or
(3) In the case of other borrowers, the period to be announced by RUS.
Borrower
means any organization which has an outstanding FFB loan guaranteed by RUS under the RE Act.
Business Day
means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal public holiday under 5 U.S.C. section 6103 for the purposes of statutes relating to pay and leave of employees, or any other day declared to be legal holiday for the purposes of statutes relating to pay and leave of employees by Federal statute or Federal Executive Order.
Continuing Resolution
means section 633 of the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1988 (Pub. L. 100-202).
Date Received
means the date inscribed on the Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank, by an authorized official of RUS, as the date the application was received.
Documentation
means all or part of the agreements relating to a prepayment under this part, irrespective of whether RUS is a party to each agreement, including all exhibits to such agreements.
Electric Program Applications
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.29(c)(1).
Existing Loan Guarantee
means a guarantee of payment issued by RUS to FFB pursuant to the RE Act for an FFB loan made on or before July 2, 1986.
Fees
means any fees, costs or charges, incurred in connection with obtaining the private loan used to make the prepayment including without limitation, accounting fees, filing fees, legal fees (including fees and disbursements charged by counsel representing the borrower), printing costs, recording fees, trustee fees, underwriting fees, capital stock purchases or other equity investment requirements of the lender, and other related transaction expenses.
Financially Distressed Borrower
means an RUS-financed electric system determined by the Administrator to be either (1) in default or near default on interest or principal payments due on loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act, and is making a good faith effort to increase rates and reduce costs to avoid or mitigate default; or (2) participating in a work out or debt restructuring plan with RUS, either as the borrower being restructured or as a borrower providing assistance as part of the work out or restructuring.
Financially Viable Lender
means:
(1) A lender (i) which has a capital and surplus of at least $50 million; (ii) is a beneficiary of an irrevocable letter of credit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, payable to it in the amount of $50 million; (iii) is the beneficiary of a guarantee, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, in the amount of $50 million from a lending institution with a capital and surplus of at least $50 million; or (iv) has other credit support, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, in the amount of $50 million; or
(2) In the event of a prepayment totalling less than $100 million, a lender (i) which has a capital and surplus of at least $10 million; (ii) is a beneficiary of an irrevocable letter of credit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, payable to it in the amount of $10 million; (iii) is the beneficiary of a guarantee, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, in the amount of $10 million from a lending institution with a capital and surplus of at least $10 million; or (iv) has other credit support, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, in the amount of $10 million;
FFB
means the Federal Financing Bank, an instrumentality and wholly owned corporation of the United States.
FFB Loan
means one or more advances, or a part of one or more advances, made on or before July 2, 1986, by FFB on a promissory note or notes executed by a borrower and guaranteed
by RUS pursuant to section 306 of the RE Act (7 U.S.C. 936).
Guarantee
means the original endorsement, in the form specified by RUS which is executed by the Administrator and shall be an obligation supported by the full faith and credit of the United States and incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the holder had actual knowledge at the time it became a holder.
Increase in Loan Guarantee Risk
means the change in any of the components of loan guarantee risk associated with the private loan which in the judgment of RUS increases the magnitude or duration of the loan guarantee risk currently assumed by RUS in connection with the existing loan guarantee;
Internally Generated Funds
means money belonging to the borrower other than: (1) Proceeds of loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act or (2) funds on deposit in the cash construction trustee account;
Lender
means the organization making and servicing the private loan which is to be guaranteed under the provisions of this subpart and used to prepay the FFB loan. The term
lender
does not include the FFB, or any other Government agency.
Loan Guarantee Agreement
means the written contract by and among the lender, the borrower, the Administrator, and such other parties that RUS may require, setting forth the terms and conditions of a guarantee issued pursuant to the provisions of this subpart.
Loan Guarantee Risk
means the risk as determined by RUS associated with guaranteeing a loan for a particular borrower. Components of loan guarantee risk include the following:
(1) The outstanding principal balance of a loan;
(2) The dollar weighted average interest rate (stated as an annual percentage rate) on a loan;
(3) The final maturity date of a loan;
(4) The annual principal amortization of the loan; and
(5) Any other factor that as determined by RUS increases the magnitude or duration of the guarantee.
Mortgage
means the mortgage and security agreements by and among the borrower and RUS, as from time to time supplemented, amended and restated.
1989 Appropriations Act
means the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 (Pub. L. 100-460).
Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank
means the notice in the form specified in § 1786.33 hereof.
Prepayment Authority
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.29(a).
Private Loan
means a loan or loans to be guaranteed under the provisions of this part and used to prepay an FFB loan.
Pro-rated Percentage
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.30(b)(1).
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901-950b), as amended.
REA
means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
Service
or
Servicing
means the following activities:
(1) The billing and collecting of the private loan payments from the borrower;
(2) Notifying the Administrator promptly of any default in the payment of principal and interest on the private loan and submitting a report, as soon as possible thereafter, setting forth the servicer's views as to the reasons for the default, how long the servicer expects the borrower to be in default, and what corrective actions the borrower states it is taking to achieve a current debt service position;
(3) Notifying the Administrator of any known violations or defaults by the borrower under the lending agreement, loan guarantee agreement, the mortgage, or related security instruments, or conditions of which the
servicer or the lender is aware which might lead to nonpayment, violation or other default; and
(4) Such other activities as may be specified in the loan guarantee agreement.
Settlement Date
means the date the borrower disburses funds to the FFB in order to complete a prepayment pursuant to this subpart, and shall be a date agreed to by RUS, and a date on which both the FFB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are open for business.
Standard Electric Program Application
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.29(c)(1).
Telephone Borrower
means a borrower that provides telephone service as defined in 7 CFR 1735.2(a).
Telephone Program Applications
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.29(c)(2).
(b)
Rules of Construction.
Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the terms defined in § 1786.27(a) hereof include the plural as well as the singular, and the singular as well as the plural. The words “herein,” “hereof” and “hereunder”, and words of similar import, refer to this subpart as a whole.
[55 FR 1145, Jan. 11, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 35426, Aug. 30, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994]
§ 1786.28
Qualifications.
(a)
Borrowers.
To qualify to prepay an FFB loan pursuant to this subpart, the borrower must:
(1) Demonstrate that the FFB loan was outstanding on July 2, 1986;
(2) Prepay the FFB loan by:
(i) Using a private loan with the existing loan guarantee;
(ii) Using internally generated funds; or
(iii) Using a combination of a private loan with the existing loan guarantee and internally generated funds; and
(3) Certify that any savings resulting from such prepayment will be passed on to its customers, or used to improve the financial strength of the borrower in cases of financial hardship.
(b)
Lenders.
To participate pursuant to this subpart, in a borrower's prepayment of an FFB loan by means of a private loan, the lender must:
(1) Be a private legally organized lender, or a lender established pursuant to the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended;
(2)(i) Be subject to credit examination and supervision by either an agency of the United States or a state and be in good standing with its licensing authority and have met the requirements, if any, of licensing, lending and loan servicing in the state where the collateral for the Loan is located;
(ii) Be a financially viable lender; or
(iii) Be a trust administered. by an entity meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section; and
(3) Have the capability to adequately service the private loan either by using its own resources or by contracting for such resources with a financially viable lender. Under no circumstances may the borrower or an affiliate of the borrower service the private loan. A qualified lender may participate out each private loan to entities other than a Government agency, the borrower, or an affiliate of the borrower, provided that such participation shall be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
(c)
Private Loans.
A borrower who qualifies pursuant to § 1786.28(a) may at its option elect to use a private loan to make a prepayment, or a portion of a prepayment, pursuant to this subpart. Private loans, the proceeds of which are used exclusively to prepay FFB loans, shall be eligible for a guarantee under this subpart. The Administrator shall endorse a guarantee on each note evidencing a qualifying private loan. The private loan shall be structured in a manner which in the judgment of RUS shall not result in an increase in loan guarantee risk and shall comply with the following:
(1) The private loan shall provide for the periodic payment of interest by the borrower not less frequently than annually, at either a variable or fixed rate in a manner which shall not result in an increase in loan guarantee risk. (i.e. The dollar weighted average interest rate on the private loan shall be less than or equal to the dollar weighted average interest rate on the FFB loan being prepaid, so that:
EC16SE91.024
Where,
C
r
= The revised interest rate cap;
C
o
= The original interest rate cap at the time of prepayment;
A
i
= The average interest rate actually charged in the i
th
period;
T
i
= Length of the i
th
period expressed in years;
n = The number of years that have elapsed since the initial prepayment;
J = The initial term of the private loan, at the time of prepayment;
Subject to the constraint that A
1
must be less or equal to C
o
).
(2) Principal payments on the private loan shall be made either quarterly, semiannually, or annually and shall commence on or before the last day of the calendar year during which the prepayment pursuant to this subpart was made.
(3) With the approval of the Administrator, the lender may refund the private loan with the proceeds of another loan from the same lender, with the existing guarantee and under terms, conditions, and a structure substantially similar to the private loan, on such dates as the lender, the borrower and RUS may agree, provided however, that such a refunding loan shall comply with the provisions of § 1786.28(c) hereof. Additionally, with the approval of the Administrator, the private loan may be prepaid either in whole or in part at any time by the borrower using its general funds.
(4) The private loan and the guaranteed note evidencing the private loan shall not be directly or indirectly part of a transaction the income of which is excluded from gross income for the purposes of Chapter I of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(5) The guaranteed note evidencing the private loan shall not be transferable or assignable except
(i) With the written approval of the Administrator;
(ii) In the event that the guaranteed note evidencing the private loan is held by a trust, to a similar trust, in connection with a refunding loan made by the lender pursuant to § 1786.28(c)(3); or
(iii) As an undivided pro rata interest in a pool of obligations.
(6) The loan documentation shall provide RUS with the right to accelerate the note evidencing the private loan upon the occurrence of any “Event of Default” under the mortgage with the effect that all of the unpaid principal and interest on any such note shall become immediately due and payable to RUS, and RUS shall continue to pay under its guarantee the principal of and interest on such note without taking into account such acceleration. The loan documentation shall also provide RUS with a right, upon the occurrence of such an “Event of Default,” to accelerate payment on its guarantee and accelerate payment on the note evidencing the private loan on the earlier of any date the interest rate on the private loan is reset, without premium or penalty; any date the borrower may prepay in accordance with the terms of the private loan, or the tenth anniversary of the date the private loan first bears interest at a fixed interest rate.
(7) The principal of the private loan shall not include amounts attributable to fees associated with the private loan. At the time it submits its application, a borrower may request that the Administrator approve the inclusion of amounts attributable to fees as part of the interest rate on the private loan, if the net effective interest rate including such fees meets the test contained in § 1786.28(c)(1). For the purposes of these regulations, such financed fees shall be considered “interest”.
(8) Private loans and guaranteed notes evidencing private loans shall otherwise be in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator.
(d)
Prepayments Without a Guarantee.
Qualifying borrowers may elect to utilize internally generated funds without a guarantee to prepay an FFB loan, or
partially prepay an FFB loan, pursuant to this subpart, if
(1) The borrower notifies RUS, of its intent to prepay using internally generated funds in accordance with the application procedures set forth in this subpart; and
(2) The borrower submits a certification to RUS that the prepayment does not, materially adversely affect the financial stability of the borrower and its ability to meet all its obligations, including debt service on all loans made, guaranteed or lien accommodated under the RE Act which will remain outstanding after the date of the prepayment.
(e)
The Use of both a Private Loan and Internally Generated Funds.
Qualifying borrowers may elect to utilize a combination of private loans and internally generated funds without a guarantee, to prepay an FFB loan pursuant to this subpart, if
(1) The private loans comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, and
(2) The borrower complies with paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
FFB loans.
A borrower's FFB loans that qualify to be prepaid pursuant to this subpart are:
(1)
Qualifying Borrowers.
In the case of qualifying borrowers other than financially distressed borrowers, FFB advances with long-term maturity dates may be prepaid pursuant to this subpart; and
(2)
Financially distressed borrowers.
FFB loans that are eligible to be prepaid by utilizing the financially distressed borrowers' reserve are advances with long-term maturity dates, and which in the opinion of the Administrator, if prepaid, would result in an economic savings to the financially distressed borrower.
[55 FR 1145, Jan. 11, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 35426, Aug. 30, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990]
§ 1786.29
Prepayment authority, program allocations, categories of prepayment applications and financially distressed borrowers' reserve.
(a)
Prepayment Authority.
So long as the aggregate amount of prepayments made after December 22, 1987, including prepayments made pursuant to § 1786.28(d) and § 1786.28(e), under section 306(A) of the RE Act, does not exceed $2.5 billion, the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury is not required in order to make a prepayment pursuant to this subpart (such amount of prepayments is hereinafter called prepayment authority).
(b)
Program Allocations.
In accordance with the provisions of section 637 of the 1989 Appropriations Act, $350 million of prepayment authority is allocated to RUS-financed electric systems and $150 million of prepayment authority is allocated to RUS-financed telephone utilities. The amounts of prepayment authority allocated to electric program borrowers and telephone program borrowers shall not be transferred between programs. Borrowers may not sell, assign, or otherwise transfer prepayment authority to another borrower.
(c)
Categories of Prepayment Applications.
Applications received by RUS from borrowers desiring to prepay pursuant to this subpart will be separated into the following two application categories:
(1)
Electric Program Applications.
Electric program applications are applications to make a prepayment pursuant to this subpart from RUS-financed electric utilities, that qualify in accordance with § 1786.28(a) hereof and which are received by RUS during the application period. Electric program applications will be further subdivided and classified as being either (i) a financially distressed borrower's application, or (ii) a standard electric program application. Applications received from borrowers determined by the Administrator not to be a financially distressed borrower will be classified and processed as a standard electric program application;
(2)
Telephone Program Applications.
Telephone program applications are applications to make a prepayment pursuant to this subpart from RUS-financed telephone utilities that qualify in accordance with § 1786.28(a) hereof and which are received by RUS during the application period;
(d)
Financially distressed borrowers' reserve.
The $350 million of prepayment authority allocated for RUS-financed electric utilities, is initially set aside into a financially distressed borrowers'
reserve. This reserve of prepayment authority will be available for prepayments pursuant to this subpart by financially distressed borrowers who apply to make such a prepayment during the application period. In the event that a portion of financially distressed borrowers' reserve remains unsubscribed at the end of the initial application period, the unallocated portion of the financially distressed borrowers' reserve will be allocated to other electric borrowers having submitted applications during an application period to be announced by RUS. Such prepayment applications shall be classified as standard electric program applications.
[55 FR 1145, Jan. 11, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 35427, Aug. 30, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990]
§ 1786.30
Processing procedure.
(a)
Priority of Processing.
The determination of the order or method in which applications or portions of applications will be processed by RUS pursuant to this subpart rests solely within the discretion of the Administrator. RUS expects that a number of prepayment applications will be processed simultaneously. In the event that it becomes necessary to establish priorities of processing, prepayment applications will be processed without regard to the date received, generally in the following order of priority:
(1) Applications from telephone borrowers;
(2) Applications from financially distressed borrowers;
(3) Applications from all other borrowers. When assigning priority to such applications, RUS will consider a number of factors, including without limitation, (i) the number of prepayment applications being processed by the area office; (ii) the novelty or complexity of the proposed transaction; (iii) the method of prepayment; and (iv) the availability of resources. In the event that RUS receives during the initial application period, prepayment applications from such borrowers in an amount less than remaining prepayment authority for each respective program, RUS will establish a new application period and publish a notice to that effect in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Pro-rated Applications.
Standard electric program applications, and telephone program applications will be prorated within their respective application categories to permit partial prepayments in the event that the aggregate amount of prepayment applications received during the application period exceeds the amount of prepayment authority allocated to that application category. In such circumstances, the amount of each borrower's permitted prepayment shall be determined within each respective application category, as follows:
(1) The principal amount of FFB advances under each individual application, which, if prepaid pursuant to this subpart, would result in an economic savings to the borrower, shall be divided by the aggregate principal amount of FFB advances, under all of the applications, which, if prepaid pursuant to this subpart, would result in an economic savings to the borrowers, in order to determine a percentage (hereinafter called a pro-rated percentage) for each borrower;
(2) Each borrower's share of the prepayment authority for its application category shall be equal to the product of (i) the prepayment authority times (ii) the respective pro-rated percentage, and may be used to prepay a portion of any of the borrower's FFB loans listed pursuant to § 1786.31(a)(2);
(3) If any approved prepayment transaction fails to be settled within 180 days of the date the borrower is notified by RUS of its prepayment allocation, RUS may rescind its approval. The unused prepayment authority represented by such a failed transaction is subject to being included in any subsequent notice of a new application period under this subpart; and
(4) In the event that applications from financially distressed borrowers exceed the amount prepayment authority remaining in the financially distressed borrowers' reserve, the Administrator at his discretion shall select one or more of such applications and allocate the reserve. In making such a selection and allocation, the Administrator may consider various factors, including without limitation, (i) the dollar amount of savings to be realized by
the proposed prepayment; (ii) the interest rates on the FFB loans proposed to be prepaid; (iii) the magnitude of the default or potential default; and (iv) whether the borrower has previously completed a prepayment under section 306(A).
(c)
Notification of Borrowers' Allocations.
Promptly after allocating the prepayment authority to borrowers and completing any proration calculations that may be necessary, RUS will return to each borrower submitting a prepayment application pursuant to this subpart, a copy of their Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank specifying the amount of the borrower's prepayment allocation.
[55 FR 1145, Jan. 11, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990]
§ 1786.31
Application procedure.
Applications to make a prepayment pursuant to this subpart shall be submitted to RUS on such forms as RUS may prescribe in the following manner:
(a)
Application.
Each borrower desiring to make a prepayment pursuant to this subpart shall submit an application to RUS. No application from a borrower will be accepted by RUS prior to the commencement of the application period. An application shall not be deemed submitted to RUS until it is received by RUS, and the “Date Received” has been inscribed on the Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank by an authorized official of RUS. Incomplete applications may be returned to the borrower at the discretion of RUS and thereafter must be resubmitted in order to be processed. To be considered complete, the application should include the following:
(1) “Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank” in the form specified in § 1786.33 hereof;
(2) A listing of each FFB loan advance to be prepaid by loan designation, RUS note number, RUS account number, advance date, maturity date, original amount, outstanding balance, and interest rate;
(3) Evidence that the borrower meets the qualification provisions of § 1786.28(a) of these regulations;
(4) The certification set forth in part A of the Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank executed by the chief executive officer of the borrower;
(5) In the event that a borrower submits a prepayment application which proposes to utilize a portion of the financially distressed borrowers' reserve, a certification signed by the chief executive officer of the system to the effect that the borrower is either (i) in default or near default on interest or principal payments due on loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act, and is making a good faith effort to increase rates and reduce costs to avoid or mitigate default; or (ii) participating in a work out or debt restructuring plan with RUS, either as the borrower being restructured or as a borrower providing assistance as part of the work out or restructuring and stating why the borrower is in default or near default.
(b)
Election of Method of Prepayment.
Prior to requesting RUS to schedule a settlement date, the borrower shall (1) elect whether it will use a private loan, internally generated funds, or a combination of a private loan and internally generated funds to make the prepayment, by completing part C of its Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank; (2) specify in part C of the Notice of Intent to prepay the Federal Financing Bank a date after which a prepayment closing may be scheduled; (3) if appropriate, execute the certification set forth in part C of the Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank; and (4) return a completed copy of the Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank to the RUS area office.
(c)
Final Documentation.
All documentation in connection with a proposed prepayment made pursuant to this subpart shall have been submitted to RUS in final form, no later than 5 business days prior to the settlement date agreed to by the borrower and RUS. To be considered complete, the final documentation shall include the following material:
(1) A completed copy of the Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank;
(2) In the event that a borrower proposes to utilize a private loan in connection with a prepayment or a portion of a prepayment,
(i) Evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, that the borrower has an irrevocable commitment from the lender to close the private loan on the settlement date at an interest rate that meets the requirements of § 1786.28(c)(1);
(ii) Evidence that the lender meets the qualification provisions of § 1786.28(b);
(iii) Evidence that the private loan meets the qualification provisions of § 1786.28(c); and
(iv) The final documentation for the private loan;
(3) Estimate of fees, and expenses, including any taxes, in connection with the prepayment transaction;
(4) A certified copy of a resolution of the board of directors of the borrower approving the certification cited above and requesting RUS approval of the prepayment.
(5) In the case of financially distressed borrowers, evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator that the benefits of prepayment will not be used to reduce rates and that any Federal or state regulatory body having jurisdiction over the borrower's rates has acknowledged its awareness of this requirement;
(6) In the event that borrower is unable to deliver final documentation or the evidence specified in accordance with, § 1786.31(c), RUS may reschedule the settlement date at its discretion.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0088)
§ 1786.32
Settlement procedure.
(a)
General.
Settlements in connection with prepaying FFB loans pursuant to this subpart shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Settlement date.
The prepayment will be settled and if a private loan is utilized, the guarantee will be delivered, on a settlement date agreed upon by the borrower and RUS. Prior to scheduling a settlement date for a borrower's prepayment pursuant to this subpart, RUS shall have received the material specified in § 1786.31(b).
(c)
Place of settlement.
All settlements will take place in Washington, DC, at a location of the borrower's choosing; provided however, if more than one settlement is proposed for the same settlement date, RUS reserves the right to coordinate the date and location of the settlements with borrowers involved.
(d)
Repayment of FFB.
Prior to 1:00 p.m. prevailing local time in New York, New York, on the settlement date, the borrower shall wire immediately available funds to RUS through the Department of the Treasury account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or shall provide for payment to RUS in another manner acceptable to RUS and FFB, in an amount sufficient to pay the outstanding principal of the FFB loan being prepaid plus accrued interest from the last payment date to and including the settlement date.
(e)
Documentation.
The borrower shall deliver, or cause to be delivered to RUS and FFB, not less than 3 business days prior to the settlement date, written notice of the settlement date and a complete listing of each FFB loan advance to be prepaid or partially prepaid, in the format required by § 1786.31(a)(2). In the event that a private loan is used in connection with the prepayment, the following executed documents, opinions and material shall be delivered at the settlement:
(1) The guaranteed note evidencing the private loan.
(2) The guarantee.
(3) The loan guarantee agreement.
(4) Copy of the private loan agreement between the lender and the borrower.
(5) Evidence that the borrower has received all approvals which are required under Federal or state law, loan agreements, security agreements, existing financing arrangements, or any other agreement to which the borrower is a party.
(6) An amendment in recordable form revising the description of the obligations secured by the mortgage including the obligation of the borrower to reimburse RUS for any amounts that RUS may pay under the guarantee.
(7) An approving opinion of the borrower's legal counsel to the effect that the guaranteed note evidencing the private loan is a valid and legally binding
obligation of the borrower which is secured under the mortgage, and the priority of the mortgage, as amended pursuant to paragraph (e)(6) of this section, remains undisturbed.
(8) An approving opinion of the lender's legal counsel to the effect that the loan guarantee agreement is a valid and legally binding obligation of the lender.
(9) Such other opinions of counsel as may be required by the Administrator.
(10) Copies of any other documentation required by the lender.
(11) Copies of any other documentation required by RUS to ensure that the obligations of the borrower to reimburse RUS for any amounts that RUS pays under the guarantee or may advance in connection with the private loan are adequately secured under the mortgage.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0088)
§ 1786.33
Forms.
Guarantees and loan guarantee agreements executed by RUS pursuant to this subpart will be on forms prescribed by RUS. Such forms will include, without limitation, additional details on servicing, procedures for notifying RUS of a default, the manner for requesting payment on a guarantee. The Notice of Intent to Prepay the Federal Financing Bank shall be substantially in the form specified by RUS. RUS may also prescribe standard forms of certifications to be used in connection with materials required to be furnished pursuant to § 1786.31 of this subpart.
§ 1786.34
Access to records of lenders, servicers, and trustees.
The lender, the servicer, or the trustee will permit representatives of RUS (or other agencies of the U.S. Department of Agriculture authorized by that Department) to inspect and make copies of any of their records pertaining to RUS guaranteed loans. Such inspection and copying may be made during regular office hours of the respective party or any other time the party and RUS find convenient.
§ 1786.35
Loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of RUS guarantee.
(a)
Authorized representative.
Except where the evidence of debt was or is a bearer instrument, the RUS Administrator is authorized on behalf of RUS to issue a replacement guarantee(s) for one(s) which may have been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced. Such replacement(s) shall be issued only to the lender or holder and only upon receipt of an acceptable certificate of loss and an indemnity bond.
(b)
Requirements.
When a guarantee(s) is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced while in the custody of the lender, or holder, the lender will coordinate the activities of the party who seeks the replacement documents and will submit the required documents to RUS for processing. The requirements for replacement are as follows:
(1) A certificate of loss properly notarized which includes:
(i) Legal name and present address of the owner, requesting the replacement forms;
(ii) Legal name and address of lender of record;
(iii) Capacity of person certifying;
(iv) Full identification of the guarantee, including the name of the borrower, date of the guarantee, face amount of the evidence of debt purchased, date of evidence of debt and present balance of the loan. Any existing parts of the documents to be replaced should be attached to the certificate;
(v) A full statement of circumstances of the loss, theft, or destruction of the guarantee; and
(vi) The lender or holder, shall present evidence demonstrating current ownership of the guarantee and note. If the present holder is not the same as the original lender, a copy of the endorsement of each successive holder in the chain of transfer from the initial private lender to present holder shall be included. If copies of the endorsement cannot be obtained, best available records of transfer shall be presented to RUS (e.g., order confirmation, cancelled checks, etc).
(2) An indemnity bond acceptable to RUS shall accompany the request for replacement except when the holder is
the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Government Corporation, a state or territory, or the District of Columbia. The bond may be with or without surety. The bond shall be with surety except when the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest due the present holder is less than $1,000,000 verified by the lender in writing in a letter of certification of balance due. The surety shall be a qualified surety company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury and listed in Treasury Department Circular 580.
(3) All indemnity bonds shall be issued and/or payable to the United States of America acting through the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service. The bond shall be in an amount not less than the unpaid principal and interest. The bond shall save RUS harmless against any claim or demand which might arise or against any damage, loss, costs, or expenses which might be sustained or incurred by reasons of the loss or replacement of the instruments.
§ 1786.36
Other prepayments.
Nothing contained in this subpart shall prohibit a borrower from making prepayments of FFB loans in accordance with the terms thereof.
§ 1786.37
Application of regulation to previous prepayments.
Nothing contained in this subpart shall affect the validity of prepayments made or guarantees issued pursuant to previous regulations. Those borrowers, however, that completed a prepayment pursuant to section 306(A) of the RE Act and closed loans prior to February 27, 1988, may, in their discretion request RUS approval and if required by prior regulations the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury, of any amendments necessary to make the terms and conditions of such loans consistent with, or to consolidate such loans with, loans guaranteed under these regulations.
§ 1786.38
Judicial review.
This subpart is intended to set forth RUS policies and procedures for the orderly administration of the provisions of section 306(A) of the RE Act, section 633 of the continuing resolution, and section 637 of the 1989 Appropriations Act and is not intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers or any person.
§§ 1786.39-1786.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Special Discounted Prepayments on RUS Direct/Insured Loans

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901-950b; Title I, Subtitle B, Pub. L. 99-509; Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
).

# Source:
51 FR 46999, Dec. 29, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990.
§ 1786.50
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures of RUS whereby electric and telephone borrowers may prepay outstanding RUS Notes at the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Notes with private financing.
§ 1786.51
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Administrator
means the Administrator of RUS.
Discounted Present Value
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.53
Fund
means the Rural Electrification and Telephone Revolving Fund established pursuant to the Act.
REA
means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the Unites States Department of Agriculture, established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
RUS Loan Agreement
means the agreement between the borrower and RUS
providing for loans pursuant to the Act.
RUS Notes
means those notes, bonds or other obligations evidencing indebtedness created by loans made pursuant to Titles I, II or III of the Act (7 U.S.C. 901-940).
[51 FR 46999, Dec. 29, 1986. Redesignated at 55 FR 49250, Nov. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 66441, Dec. 27, 1994]
§ 1786.52
Prepayment.
Through September 30, 1987, the Administrator may, pursuant to this subpart, permit eligible electric and telephone borrowers to prepay all outstanding RUS Notes issued or assumed by such borrowers and held in the Fund, upon paying the lesser of the outstanding balance or the Discounted Present Value.
§ 1786.53
Discounted present value.
The Discounted Present Value shall be calculated five business days before prepayment is made by summing the present values of all remaining payments by using the following formula:
EC16SE91.025
Where:
P
k
= Total payment including interest, due on the k
th
payment date following the prepayment date.
n = Total number of remaining payments dates.
I = The discount rate, in decimals, which shall be the average rate on utility bonds bearing a rating of “Aa” as set forth in that issue of Moody's Public Utility News Reports most recently published prior to the date on which Discounted Present Value is calculated.
D1
1
= Number of days in the i
th
payment period that are in a non-leap year (365 day year).
D2
i
= Number of days in the i
th
payment period that are in a leap year (366 day year).
§ 1786.54
Eligibility criteria.
To be eligible to prepay RUS Notes at the Discounted Present Value a borrower must comply with the following criteria:
(a) The borrower must be current on all payments due on its outstanding RUS Notes and all other payment obligations owed to RUS and the Rural Telephone Bank.
(b) The borrower must agree to prepay all of its outstanding RUS Notes.
(c) The borrower must identify the source of private financing that will be used to refinance its outstanding RUS Notes, which financing may not include obligations the income of which is exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(d) The borrower must have expended all funds advanced on account of the RUS Notes for the purposes for which such funds were advanced.
(e) The borrower must agree to a rescission of the unadvanced balance of the RUS Notes.
(f) The borrower must agree that the borrower, its successors or assigns, shall pay to the Government, as a condition of receiving additional loans or loan guarantees pursuant to Titles I, II and III of the Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the difference with respect to each of the RUS Notes between the amount outstanding on the RUS Note and the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Note upon prepayment with interest accruing quarterly; the interest rates shall be the rates provided in the respective RUS Notes.
(g) If the borrower is a party to a wholesale power contract with a power supplier financed pursuant to the Act, the borrower must provide the Administrator with such assurances as the Administrator may request that it will meet its obligations to the power supplier.
§ 1786.55
Application procedure.
Any borrower seeking to prepay its RUS Notes under this subpart should
apply to the appropriate RUS Area Director by submitting:
(a) A board resolution that:
(1) Requests approval of the prepayment of the borrower's outstanding RUS Notes, and
(2) States the intent of the borrower to comply with all eligibility criteria set forth in § 1786.54 of this subpart.
(b) A list of all RUS Notes together with the outstanding amount on such notes.
(c) Such additional information as the Administrator shall request.
§ 1786.56
Approval of applications.
The applications will ordinarily be reviewed and, if satisfactory, approved, and closing schedule based on the order in which executed prepayment agreements are received. The Administrator may limit the number of applications approved and closings scheduled from time to time taking into account, among other matters, the financial interests and administrative considerations of the Government.
§ 1786.57
Prepayment agreement.
Upon approving an application for prepayment under this subpart, the Administrator shall notify the borrower and deliver to the borrower for its execution a prepayment agreement which shall set forth and provide:
(a) The RUS Notes to be prepaid and when the Discounted Present Value will be calculated.
(b) The place and conditions for closing.
(c) Agreement that the unadvanced balance of RUS Notes shall be rescinded.
(d) Agreement that the borrower, or its successors or assigns, shall pay to the Government, as a condition of receiving additional loans or loan guarantees pursuant to Titles I, II and III of the Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the difference with respect to each of the RUS Notes between the amount outstanding on the RUS Note and the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Note upon prepayment with interest accruing quarterly; the interest rates shall be the rates provided in the respective RUS Notes.
(e) Assurances that the borrower will meet its obligations to any power supplier financed pursuant to the Act.
(f) Such other terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.
§ 1786.58
Security.
If, after prepayment of RUS Notes, the Government should continue to hold liens on the borrower's property that secure loans made or guaranteed pursuant to the Act, the Administrator of RUS or the Governor of the Rural Telephone Bank, as the case may be, will consider request for the accommodation of such liens for the purpose of providing security for loans the proceeds of which were used to prepay RUS Notes. Such lien accommodations shall be limited in amount to the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Notes plus such costs, as the Administrator shall determine to be reasonable, incurred by the borrower in obtaining such loans.
§ 1786.59
Loan fund audit.
Within 6 months of closing RUS shall have the right to audit transactions involving the RUS construction fund established and maintained by the borrower pursuant to the terms of the RUS Loan Agreement and to inspect all books, records, accounts and other documents and papers of the borrower. Should RUS determine that the borrower has made disbursements of funds advanced pursuant to RUS Notes which do not comply with the requirements of the RUS Loan Agreement, the borrower shall be required to pay to the Government an amount equal to the difference between the amount which the borrower prepaid on such RUS Notes evidencing RUS loan funds which were improperly disbursed and the amount which the borrower would otherwise have been required to return to the Government as a result of noncompliance if the borrower had not prepaid such RUS Notes. (See 7 CFR part 1721)
§ 1786.60
Closing.
(a) The borrower shall be responsible for obtaining all approvals necessary to consummate the transaction as required by the prepayment agreement
including such approvals as may be required by regulatory bodies and other lenders.
(b) The RUS Notes shall be prepaid at a closing to be held in accordance with the prepayment agreement;
Provided, however,
That no closing may be scheduled for after September 30, 1987. At closing, a borrower shall prepay the RUS Notes by paying to the Government an amount equal to the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Notes. The closing shall otherwise be conducted as prescribed in the prepayment agreement.
§ 1786.61
Other prepayments.
RUS loan documentation generally permits borrowers to prepay RUS Notes by paying the outstanding balance due thereon. Nothing in this subpart shall prohibit any borrower from prepaying its outstanding RUS Notes in accordance with the terms thereof. The provisions of this subpart shall not be applicable to such prepayment.
§§ 1786.62-1786.74
[Reserved]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Discounted Prepayments on RUS Notes in the Event of a Merger of Certain RUS Electric Borrowers

# Source:
56 FR 37268, Aug. 6, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1786.95
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures of RUS whereby certain electric borrowers may prepay outstanding RUS Notes at the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Notes with private financing.
§ 1786.96
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Administrator
means the Administrator of RUS.
Consolidation
means:
(1) The combination, pursuant to state law, of two or more borrower or nonborrower organizations into a new successor organization that takes over the assets and assumes the liabilities of those organizations; or
(2) Any other transaction including an acquisition which has substantially the same effect.
Discounted Present Value
shall have the meaning specified in § 1786.98.
Fund
means the Rural Electrification and Telephone Revolving Fund pursuant to the Act.
Merger
means:
(1) The combination, pursuant to state law, of two or more borrower or nonborrower organizations into an existing survivor organization that takes over the assets and assumes the liabilities of the merged organizations; or
(2) Any other transaction including an acquisition which has substantially the same effect.
REA
means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
RUS Loan Agreement
means the agreement between the borrower and RUS providing for loans pursuant to the Act.
RUS Notes
means those notes, bonds or other obligations evidencing indebtedness created by loans made or guaranteed by RUS pursuant to titles I and III of the Act (7 U.S.C. 901-940).
[56 FR 37268, Aug. 6, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994]
§ 1786.97
Prepayment.
There were 29 former RUS electric borrowers that prepaid their direct or insured loans under section 306B(a) of the Act prior to October 1, 1987. (See subpart C of this part.) These borrowers are listed in appendix A to subpart E of this part. Any RUS electric borrower which is the result of a merger or consolidation involving any of
these 29 former borrowers and a borrower with outstanding Notes may, after meeting all requirements of this subpart, prepay all outstanding RUS Notes issued or assumed by the borrower upon paying the lesser of the outstanding balance or the Discounted Present Value. Such prepayment must be made not later than one year after the effective date of the merger or consolidation.
§ 1786.98
Discounted present value.
(a) The Discounted Present Value shall be calculated by RUS before prepayment is made by summing the present values of all remaining payments on all outstanding notes according to the following formula to compute the discounted present value of each note and adjusting as here and after provided for tax exempt financing.
EC16SE91.027
Where:
P
k
= Total payment, including interest, due on the k
th
payment date following the prepayment date. n = Total number of remaining payment dates. I = The discount rate applied to each transaction will be ascertained by using data specified in the “Federal Reserve Statistical Release” which is published each Monday. (See appendix B to subpart E of this part.) The specific discount rate will be the discount rate(s) specified in the “Treasury Constant Maturities” section of this publication eight working days prior to the closing. In applying the discount rate, the 1-year Treasury rate will be used for all notes with a remaining term of less than 2 years; the 2-year Treasury rate for notes with maturities between 2 and 3 years; the 3-year Treasury rate for all notes with maturities between 3 and 5 years; the 5-year Treasury rate for all notes with maturities between 5 and 7 years; the 7-year Treasury rate for all notes with maturities between 7 and 10 years; the 10-year Treasury rate for all notes with maturities between 10 and 30 years; and the 30-year Treasury rate for all notes with maturities longer than 30 years.
D1
i
= Number of days in the i
th
payment period that are in a non-leap year (365 day year).
D2
i
= Number of days in the i
th
payment period that are in a leap year (366 day year).
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, in the event that the borrower shall elect to prepay using tax exempt financing, the calculation of the Discounted Present Value shall be adjusted to make the discount the equivalent of fully taxable financing.
§ 1786.99
Eligibility criteria.
To be eligible to prepay RUS Notes at the Discounted Present Value, a borrower must comply with the following criteria:
(a) The borrower must be current on all payments due on its outstanding RUS Notes and all other payment obligations owed to RUS;
(b) The borrower must agree to prepay all of its outstanding RUS Notes;
(c) The borrower must identify the source of financing that will be used directly or indirectly to refinance its outstanding RUS Notes. The borrower must certify in writing whether such financing will be tax exempt and, if so, shall furnish all information on the financing as RUS may request to enable RUS to adjust the discount to the equivalent to fully taxable financing;
(d) The borrower must have expended all funds advanced on account of the RUS Notes for the purposes for which such funds were advanced or repaid RUS for all unexpended funds;
(e) The borrower must agree to a rescission of the unadvanced balance of any RUS Notes outstanding as of the date of its application for prepayment;
(f) The borrower must agree that the borrower, its successors and assigns, shall pay to the Government, as a condition of receiving additional loans or loan guarantees pursuant to titles I
and III of the Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the difference with respect to each of the RUS Notes between the amount outstanding on the RUS Note and the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Note upon prepayment with interest accruing quarterly; the interest rates shall be the rates provided in the respective Notes; and
(g) If the borrower is a party to a wholesale power contract with a power supplier financed pursuant to the Act, the borrower must provide the Administrator with such assurances as the Administrator may request that it will meet its obligations to the power supplier. The borrower must also specifically agree to the following limitation: The borrower agrees that, for so long as the Wholesale Power Contract shall be in effect between the borrower and the power supplier, the borrower will not, without the approval in writing of the power supplier and the Administrator, take or suffer to be taken any steps for reorganization or to consolidate with or merge into any corporation or any other public power district, or to sell, lease or transfer (or make any agreement therefor) all or a substantial portion of its assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the borrower may take or suffer to be taken any steps for reorganization or to consolidate with or merge into any corporation or any other public power district, or to sell, lease or transfer (or make any agreement therefor) all or a substantial portion of its assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, so long as the borrower shall pay such portion of the outstanding indebtedness evidenced by the power supplier's Notes at the time outstanding as shall be determined by the power supplier with the prior written consent of the Administrator and shall otherwise comply with such reasonable terms and conditions as the Administrator and the Power Supplier shall require.
§ 1786.100
Application procedure.
Any borrower seeking to prepay its RUS Notes under this Subpart should apply to the appropriate RUS Area Director not less than 60 days prior to one year after the effective date of the merger or consolidation by submitting:
(a) A board resolution that:
(1) Requests approval of the prepayment of the borrower's outstanding RUS Notes;
(2) States the intent of the borrower to comply with all eligibility criteria set forth in § 1786.99 of this subpart; and
(3) Identifies the source of financing.
(b) A list of all RUS Notes together with the outstanding amount on such notes.
(c) An opinion of counsel as to the effective date of the merger or consolidation.
(d) Such additional information as the Administrator will request.
§ 1786.101
Approval of application.
The applications will be reviewed and, if satisfactory, approved. Closing will be scheduled upon approval.
§ 1786.102
Prepayment agreement.
Upon approving an application for prepayment under this subpart, the Administrator shall notify the borrower and deliver to the borrower for its execution a prepayment agreement which shall set forth and provide:
(a) The RUS Notes to be prepaid and when the Discounted Present Value will be calculated.
(b) The place, date and conditions for closing.
(c) Agreement that the unadvanced balance of RUS Notes shall be rescinded.
(d) Agreement that the borrower, or its successors or assigns, shall pay to the Government, as a condition of receiving additional loans or loan guarantees pursuant to titles I and III of the Act, an amount equal to the aggregate of the difference with respect to each of the RUS Notes between the amount outstanding on the RUS Note and the Discounted Present Value of the prepaid RUS Note; with interest accruing quarterly. The interest rates shall be the rates provided in the respective RUS Notes.
(e) Assurances that the borrower will meet its obligations to any power supplier financed pursuant to the Act.
(f) Such other terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.
§ 1786.103
Security.
If, after prepayment of RUS Notes, the Government should continue to hold liens on the borrower's property, the Administrator of RUS will consider a request for the accommodation of such liens for the purpose of providing security for loans the proceeds of which were used to prepay RUS Notes. Such lien accommodations shall be limited in amount to the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Notes plus such costs, as the Administrator shall determine to be reasonable, incurred by the borrower in obtaining such loans.
§ 1786.104
Loan fund audit.
RUS shall have the right to audit within 6 months of closing, transactions involving the RUS construction fund established and maintained by the borrower pursuant to the terms of the RUS Loan Agreement and to inspect all books, records, accounts and other documents and papers of the borrower. Should RUS determine that the borrower has made disbursements of funds advanced pursuant to RUS Notes which do not comply with the requirements of the RUS Loan Agreement, the borrower shall be required to pay the Government an amount equal to the difference between the amount which the borrower prepaid on such RUS Notes evidencing RUS loans funds which were improperly disbursed and the amount which the borrower would otherwise have been required to return to the Government as a result of noncompliance if the borrower had not prepaid such RUS Notes. (See 7 CFR part 1721, Post-Loan Policies and Procedures for Insured Electric Loans.)
§ 1786.105
Closing.
(a) The borrower shall be responsible for obtaining all approvals necessary to consummate the transaction as required by the prepayment agreement, including such approvals as may be required by regulatory bodies and other lenders.
(b) The RUS Notes shall be prepaid at a closing to be held in accordance with the prepayment agreement. RUS shall designate the date of closing which in no event shall be later than one year after the effective date of the merger or consolidation. At closing, in addition to paying all current interest due on the date of prepayment, a borrower shall prepay the RUS Notes by paying to the Government an amount equal to the lesser of the outstanding balance or the Discounted Present Value of the RUS Notes. The closing shall otherwise be conducted as prescribed in the prepayment agreement.
§ 1786.106
Other prepayments.
RUS loan documentation generally permits borrowers to prepay RUS Notes by paying the outstanding balance due thereon. Nothing in this subpart shall prohibit any borrower from prepaying its outstanding RUS Notes in accordance with the terms thereof. The provisions of this subpart shall not be applicable to such prepayment.
Pt. 1786, Subpt. E, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 1786—Listing of Eligible Borrowers
State
Borrower name and address
Colorado
Colorado-Ute Electric Assn., Inc., Montrose.
Florida
Lee County Electric Coop. Inc., North Fort Myers.
Indiana
Clark County Rural Elec. Memb. Corp., Sellersburg.
Louisiana
Beauregard Electric Cooperative, Inc., Deridder.
Missouri
Culvre River Electric Cooperative, Inc., Troy.
Nebraska
Roosevelt Public Power District, Mitchell.
Nebraska
Howard Greely Rural Public Power Dist., St. Paul.
Nebraska
Cuming County Public Power District, West Point.
Nebraska
York County Rural Public Power District, York.
Nebraska
Elkhorn Rural Public Power District, Battle Creek.
Nebraska
Southern Nebraska Rural P. P. D., Grand Island.
Nebraska
McCook Public Power District, McCook.
Nebraska
Niobrara Valley Electric Memb. Corp., O'Neill.
Nebraska
Cornhusker Public Power District, Columbus.
Nebraska
Custer Public Power District, Broken Bow.
Nebraska
Northwest Rural Public Power Dist., Hay Springs.
Nebraska
Southwest Public Power District, Palisade.
Nebraska
Loup Valleys Rural Public Power District, Ord.
Nebraska
South Central Public Power District, Nelson.
Oklahoma
Peoples' Electric Cooperative, Ada.
Texas
Deaf Smith County Electric Coop. Inc., Hereford.
Texas
Pedernales Electric Coop. Inc., Johnson City.
Texas
Bandera Electric Cooperative, Inc., Bandera.
Texas
Guadalupe Valley Electric Coop., Inc., Gonzales.
Texas
Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative, Inc., Giddings.
Texas
Cap Rock Electric Cooperative, Inc. Stanton.
Texas
San Bernard Electric Cooperative, Inc., Bellville.
Washington
Inland Power
Light Company, Spokane.
Washington
Pub. Util. Dist. No. 1 Grays Harbor Co., Aberdeen.
Pt. 1786, Subpt. E, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart E of Part 1786—Federal Reserve Statistical Release

# Federal Reserve Statistical Release
These data are released each Monday. The availability of the release will be announced when the information is available, on (202) 452-3206.

# H. 15 (519)
For immediate release February 4, 1991.
Selected Interest Rates
[Yields in percent per annum]
Instruments
1991 Jan. 28
1991 Jan. 29
1991 Jan. 30
1991 Jan. 31
1991 Feb. 1
This week
Last week
1991 Jan.
Federal Funds (effective)
1 2 3
7.61
7.16
6.96
8.18
6.30
7.46
6.88
6.91
Commercial paper
3 4 5
1-Month
6.88
6.96
6.95
6.99
6.73
6.90
6.83
7.12
3-Month
6.92
6.96
6.94
6.95
6.67
6.89
6.92
7.10
6-Month
6.87
6.91
6.88
6.88
6.58
6.82
6.86
7.02
Finance paper placed directly
3 4 6
1-Month
6.76
6.85
6.83
6.83
6.55
6.76
6.68
6.95
3-Month
6.75
6.83
6.83
6.76
6.46
6.73
6.77
6.92
6-Month
6.53
6.53
6.59
6.53
6.19
6.47
6.55
6.59
Bankers acceptances (top rated)
3 4 7
3-Month
6.80
6.82
6.77
6.68
6.30
6.67
6.76
6.96
6-Month
6.67
6.70
6.65
6.55
6.15
6.54
6.63
6.84
CDS (secondary market)
3 8
1-Month
6.78
6.85
6.87
6.82
6.52
6.77
6.77
7.10
3-Month
6.94
6.95
6.93
6.88
6.51
6.84
6.94
7.17
6-Month
6.95
6.98
6.95
6.88
6.51
6.85
6.97
7.17
Eurodollar deposits (London)
3 9
1-Month
6.81
6.88
6.88
6.88
6.88
6.86
6.81
7.13
3-Month
6.94
7.06
7.00
6.94
6.94
6.98
7.01
7.23
6-Month
7.00
7.00
7.00
6.94
6.94
6.98
7.04
7.23
Bank prime loan
2 3 10
9.50
9.50
9.50
9.50
9.50
9.50
9.50
9.52
Discount window borrowing
2 11
6.50
6.50
6.50
6.50
6.00
6.50
6.50
6.50
U.S. Government securities
Treasury bills
Auction average
3 4 12
3-Month
6.22
6.22
6.14
6.30
6-Month
6.28
6.28
6.21
6.34
1-Year
6.22
Auction average (investment)
12
3-Month
6.41
6.41
6.32
6.49
6-Month
6.58
6.58
6.50
6.64
Secondary market
3 4
3-Month
6.25
6.22
6.20
6.19
6.00
6.17
6.12
6.22
6-Month
6.26
6.26
6.24
6.20
5.97
6.19
6.20
6.28
1-Year
6.24
6.20
6.17
6.13
5.91
6.13
6.19
6.25
Treasury Constant maturities
13
1-Year
6.64
6.59
6.56
6.51
6.27
6.51
6.58
6.64
2-Year
7.12
7.10
7.07
7.05
6.83
7.03
7.09
7.13
3-Year
7.38
7.35
7.34
7.30
7.10
7.29
7.35
7.38
5-Year
7.67
7.64
7.64
7.62
7.45
7.60
7.66
7.70
7-Year
7.93
7.90
7.90
7.89
7.75
7.87
7.92
7.97
10-Year
8.06
8.05
8.05
8.03
7.91
8.02
8.04
8.09
30-Year
8.23
8.20
8.23
8.21
8.09
8.19
8.22
8.27
Composite
Over 10 years (long-term)
14
8.29
8.26
8.29
8.27
8.15
8.25
8.28
8.33
Corporate bonds
Moody's Seasoned
AAA
9.03
9.01
9.00
8.99
8.96
9.00
9.05
9.04
BAA
10.43
10.37
10.35
10.33
10.24
10.34
10.44
10.45
A-Utility
15
9.65
9.65
9.80
9.83
State and local bonds
16
7.00
7.00
7.06
7.08
Conventional mortgages
17
9.56
9.56
9.61
9.64
Footnotes:
1
The daily effective federal funds rate is a weighted average of rates on trades through N.Y. brokers.
2
Weekly figures are averages of 7 calendar days ending on Wednesday of the current week; monthly figures include each calendar day in the month.
3
Annualized using a 360-day year or bank interest.
4
Quoted on a discount basis.
5
An average of offering rates on commercial paper placed by several leading dealers for firms whose bond rating is AA or the equivalent.
6
An average of offering rates on paper directly placed by finance companies.
7
Representative closing yields for acceptances of the highest rated money center banks.
8
An average of dealer offering rates on nationally traded certificates of deposit.
9
Bid rates for Eurodollar deposits at 11 a.m. London time.
10
One of several base rates used by banks to price short-term business loans.
11
Rate for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
12
Auction date for daily data; weekly and monthly averages computed on an issue-date basis.
13
Yields on actively traded issues adjusted to constant maturities. Source: U.S. Treasury.
14
Unweighted average of rates on all outstanding bonds neither due nor callable in less than 10 years, including one very low yielding “flower” bond.
15
Estimate of the yield on a recently offered, A-rated utility bond with a maturity of 30 years and call protection of 5 years; Friday quotations.
16
Bond buyer Index, general obligation, 20 years to maturity, mixed quality; Thursday quotations.
17
Contract interest rates on commitments for fixed-rate first mortgages. Source: FHLMC.
Note:
Weekly and monthly figures are averages of business days unless otherwise noted.

# Description of the Treasury Constant Maturity Series
Yields on Treasury securities at “constant maturity” are interpolated by the U.S. Treasury from the daily yield curve. This curve, which relates the yield on a security to its time to maturity, is based on the closing market bid yields on actively traded Treasury securities in the over-the-counter market. These market yields are calculated from composites of quotations reported by five leading U.S. Government securities dealers to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The constant maturity yield values are read from the yield curve at fixed maturities, currently 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 30 years. This method provides a yield for a 10-year maturity, for example, even if no outstanding security has exactly 10 years remaining to maturity.

# Subpart F—Discounted Prepayments on RUS Electric Loans

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
).

# Source:
59 FR 13620, Mar. 22, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1786.150
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures of RUS whereby borrowers may prepay, with private financing or internally generated funds, outstanding RUS Notes evidencing electric loans at the Discounted present value of the RUS Notes, pursuant to the provisions of section 306(B) of the RE Act as amended by Public Law 102-428, 106 Stat. 2183, adopted October 21, 1992.
§ 1786.151
Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Borrower
means any organization which has an outstanding note(s) evidencing electric loans made by RUS, or has previously prepaid such notes under subparts C and E of this part.
Business day
means any day on which both the RUS and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are open for business.
Construction Fund Account
means the Cash—Construction Fund—Trustee Account, maintained by the borrower pursuant to the terms of the outstanding RUS Loan Contract.
Closing
shall mean one of the several contemplated closings of the prepayment of the Qualified Notes prescribed by the Prepayment agreement.
Closing date
shall mean any business day identified as such by the Government in its preclosing notice delivered to the Company pursuant to § 1786.158.
Closing request
shall mean a request by the borrower of the Government to schedule a closing for certain Qualified Notes on the date requested therein.
Direct loan
means a loan made pursuant to section 4 of the RE Act.
Discounted present value
shall have the meaning set forth in § 1786.153.
Distribution borrower
means a borrower that sells electric power and energy at retail in rural areas.
Electric loan
means a Direct loan or an Insured loan made for the purpose of furnishing electric energy to persons in rural areas.
Final maturity
means the final date on which all outstanding principal and accrued interest on an electric loan is due and payable.
Government
means the United States of America, acting through the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service.
Insured loan
means a loan made pursuant to Section 305 of the RE Act.
Lien accommodation
means the sharing of the Government's (RUS's) lien on property, usually all property, covered by the lien of the RUS Mortgage.
Loan guarantee
means a loan guarantee under Section 306 of the RE Act.
Power supply borrower
means a borrower that sells or intends to sell electric power at wholesale to distribution or power supply borrowers pursuant to RUS wholesale power contracts.
Preclosing notice
shall mean a notice delivered by the Government to the borrower in response to a closing request, identifying the closing date, the Qualified Notes to be prepaid at such closing and documents to be delivered by the borrower to the Government prior to the closing date.
Prepayment agreement
shall have the meaning set forth in § 1786.158.
Qualified Notes
shall have the meaning set forth in § 1786.154.
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture.
RUS Loan Contract
means the agreement, as amended, supplemented, or restated from time to time, between a borrower and RUS providing for loans or loan guarantees pursuant to the RE Act.
RUS Mortgage
means collectively those mortgages and security agreements made by and among the borrower, the Government, and third parties, if any, securing indebtedness evidencing electric loans or loan guarantees made pursuant to the RE Act.
Rural development loans
means loans or grants made pursuant to Rural development programs.
Rural development programs
means loan or grant programs under the authority of the Administrator pursuant to sections 313, 501, and 502 of the RE Act.
Supplemental lender
means a private lender whose loan to the borrower is secured by the RUS mortgage.
Tax exempt financing
means borrowing evidenced by bonds, notes and other evidence of indebtedness the income of which is excluded from gross income for the purposes of Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. ch. 1).
(b)
Rules of construction.
Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the terms defined in paragraph (a) of this section include the plural as well as
the singular, and the singular as well as the plural.
§ 1786.152
Prepayments of RUS loans.
An electric loan made under the RE Act shall not be sold or prepaid at a value that is less than the outstanding principal balance, except that, on request of a borrower, an electric loan made under the RE Act, or a portion of such a loan, that was advanced before May 1, 1992, or has been advanced for not less than 2 years, shall be prepaid by the borrower at the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the loan or the discounted present value thereof.
§ 1786.153
Discounted present value.
(a) The discounted present value shall be calculated by summing the present values of all remaining payments on all Qualified Notes to be prepaid according to the following formula and adjusted as provided in paragraph (b) of this section if tax exempt financing is used.
ER22MR94.016
Where:
The Greek letter, Sigma (Σ) means the sum of the following terms.
The Greek letter, Pi (Π) means the product of the following terms.
P
k
= Total payment, including interest due on the K
th
payment date following the prepayment date.
n = Total number of remaining payment dates to final maturity.
D1
i
= Number of days in the i
th
payment period that are in a non-leap year (365-day year).
D2
i
= Number of days in the i
th
payment period that are in a leap year (366-day year).
I = The discount rate applied to each transaction ascertained by using data specified in the “Federal Reserve Statistical Release” (H.15 (519)), which is published each Monday. The availability of this Release will be announced when the information is available by telephone on (202) 452-3206. See adjustment for tax exempt refinancing at paragraph (b) of this section. The specific discount rate will be based on the discount rate(s) specified in the “Treasury Constant Maturities” section of this publication 8 business days prior to the closing and will be interpolated from that information as follows:
Remaining final maturity of RUS loan:
At least
# years
But less than
# years
Treasury constant maturities
0
2
1-year.
2
3
2-year.
3
4
3-year.
4
5
(
1
)
5
6
5-year.
6
7
(
2
)
7
8
7-year.
8
9
(
3
)
9
10
(
3
)
10
11
10-year.
11
20
(
4
)
20
21
20-year.
21
30
(
5
)
30
36
30-year.
Notes:
1
The arithmetic mean between the 3-year and 5-year. Treasury Constant Maturities; i.e., if 3-year. rate is 3.00% and the 5-year. rate is 4.00% then the rate used would be 3.5%.
2
The arithmetic mean between the 5-year and 7-year Treasury Constant Maturities computed as above.
3
A straight line interpolated rate between the 7-year rate and the 10-year rate. (See formula below)
4
A straight line interpolated rate between the 10-year note and the 20-year Bond rate. (See formula below)
5
A straight line interpolated rate between the 20-year bond and the 30-year bond using the following formula:
ER22MR94.017
Where:
I = The discount rate interpolated from the cost of money to the Treasury.
A = The Treasury interest rate for the most recently published maturity (in years) that is the shortest Treasury term (in years) which is greater than the borrower's remaining term (in years) to final maturity; i.e., (if the note to be prepaid has a final maturity of more than 10
years then this rate is the 20-year Treasury rate)
B = The Treasury interest rate for the most recently published maturity (in years) that is the longest Treasury term (in years) which is less than the borrower's remaining term (in years) to final maturity; i.e., (if the note to be prepaid has a final maturity of more than 10 years but less than 20 years then this term is the 10-year Treasury rate)
C = The remaining number of full years to the final maturity of the borrower's note. Drop all fractions of a year and use the remaining full years.
E = The published Treasury term (in years) to maturity which is the longest term to maturity for the published term that is less than the remaining term (in years) to final maturity of the borrower's note; i.e., (if the note to be prepaid has remaining years to maturity between 11 and 20 years then this term would be 10 or if the note to be prepaid has remaining years to maturity between 21 years and 30 years then this term would be 20).
F = The published Treasury term (in years) to maturity which is the shortest term to maturity for the published term that is greater than the remaining term (in years) to maturity of the borrower's note; i.e., (if the note to be prepaid has remaining years to maturity between 11 and 20 years then this term would be 20 or if the remaining years to maturity is between 21 and 30 years then this term would be 30).

# Note:
The percentage terms used in the above formula will be truncated to two decimal places. For the purpose of the terms A, B, E, and F above the published Treasury rate and term shall mean the Treasury Constant Maturities from the Federal Reserve Statistical Release for 7 years, 10 years, 20 years, and 30 years.
(b)(1) In the event that the borrower prepays a loan under paragraph (a) of this section using, directly or indirectly, tax exempt financing, the discount shall be adjusted to ensure that the borrower receives a benefit that is no greater than the benefit the borrower would receive if the borrower used financing that was not tax exempt. The borrower shall certify in writing whether the financing will be tax exempt.
(2) The discount rate established in paragraph (a) of this section shall be adjusted for a tax exempt financing by substituting for the “I” term in the discount rate formula, a discount rate equal to the interest rate(s) published pursuant to 7 CFR 1714.5, determination of interest rates on municipal rate loans. This is the interest rate established for the new RUS loan program which is based on municipal interest rates for issues of comparable maturity. No interpolation or average will be used. If a note is to be prepaid under this subpart and is subject to this tax exempt adjustment, the discount rate will be determined from the published table in the
Federal Register.
For example, if the note to be discounted matures in the year 1999 then the discount rate will be the interest rate for the year 1999. RUS will publish a schedule of interest rates for municipal rate loans in the
Federal Register
at the beginning of each calendar quarter. The published rates in effect eight business days prior to closing will be used for the discount rates. All notes to be prepaid that have remaining years to maturity of more than 20 years will be discounted at the interest rate in effect for new RUS municipal rate loans of comparable maturity at the time of closing.
§ 1786.154
Qualified Notes.
An eligible borrower may prepay Qualified Notes under this subpart at the discounted present value. A Qualified Note is a note evidencing an RUS electric loan, all advances of which were made prior to May 1, 1992, or not less than 2 years prior to the date of prepayment closing. See §§ 1786.155(a)(3) and 1786.158 (h) and (j).
§ 1786.155
Eligible borrower.
(a) To be eligible to prepay an electric loan under this subpart, the borrower must be in compliance with the following:
(1) The borrower shall be current on all payment obligations on outstanding loans made or guaranteed by RUS. For the purpose of determining eligibility for prepayment, a default by a power supply borrower from which a distribution borrower purchases wholesale power shall not be considered a default by the distribution borrower;
(2) There shall exist no material defaults under the borrower's RUS Loan Contract and Mortgage;
(3) The borrower shall have expended all funds advanced pursuant to the RUS Loan Contract for the purposes
for which such funds were advanced. A borrower will not be eligible to prepay under this subpart if it has any funds advanced pursuant to the RUS Loan Contract in its Construction Fund Account; and
(4) The borrower shall be current on all obligations under any wholesale power contract with an RUS financed power supply borrower.
(b) The eligibility of borrowers that have had any indebtedness representing loans made or guaranteed by RUS restructured shall be determined on a case by case basis considering the terms and conditions of the restructuring agreement.
§ 1786.156
Application procedure.
Any borrower seeking to prepay Qualified Notes under this subpart should apply to the appropriate RUS Regional Director or the Director of the Power Supply Division. The application shall provide the following:
(a) Borrower's RUS designation;
(b) Borrower's name and address;
(c) A certified copy of a resolution of the board of directors of the borrower that the borrower wishes to enter into a prepayment agreement providing for the prepayment of all or a portion of its Qualified Notes;
(d) Listing of each Qualified Note to be prepaid by loan designation, RUS account number, advance date, maturity date, original amount, and outstanding principal balance;
(e) Evidence that the borrower has the ability to obtain the financing necessary to prepay its Qualified Notes listed in paragraph (d) of this section and identification of the source of financing and the need if any of obtaining a lien accommodation from RUS; and
(f) Such additional information as the Administrator may request.
§ 1786.157
Approval of applications.
(a) Ordinarily, within 30 days of receipt, an application will be reviewed and the borrower will be notified as to whether the application has been approved. If the application has not been approved, the borrower will be informed as to the reasons. If the application is approved the borrower shall thereafter be provided with a prepayment agreement for execution.
(b) The Administrator may limit the number of applications approved and closings scheduled from time to time, taking into account, among other matters, administrative considerations of the RUS.
§ 1786.158
Terms and conditions of prepayment agreement.
Upon receipt of a satisfactory application, RUS shall provide to the borrower for its execution a prepayment agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, which may include the following:
(a) Provide for the prepayment of one or more Qualified Notes from time to time, but no more than two closings may be scheduled in any calendar year unless a third closing is for the prepayment of all outstanding electric loans of the borrower;
(b) Set forth procedures and forms through which the borrower will notify the Government of each election it makes to prepay certain Qualified Notes upon a requested closing date and the Government will notify the borrower of the established closing date and prepayment amount for the Qualified Notes for each closing;
(c) Reserve to the Administrator the right to reschedule closing dates to meet administrative considerations;
(d) Set forth closing requirements identifying the location and manner of payment, and all documentation and information to be delivered prior to or at closing, including opinions of counsel and certificates from the borrower;
(e) Provide for notice by either telephone or facsimile to be given by RUS to the borrower not more than 8 nor less than 3 business days before a scheduled closing date of the amount to be paid at closing which shall include all accrued interest and the discounted present value of the Qualified Notes to be prepaid;
(f) Provide for notice of the 120 month period during which the borrower's eligibility for direct or insured loans will be restricted;
(g) Set forth representations and warranties;
(h) Require the borrower to prepay each Qualified Note specified in full;
(i) Require the borrower to identify the source of the financing that will be used directly or indirectly to refinance the Qualified Notes. If the source is other than internally generated funds, the borrower must certify in writing whether such financing will be tax exempt, and if tax exempt financing will be used, furnish all information on the terms and conditions of the financing as RUS may require;
(j) Require the borrower to rescind the unadvanced balance of all outstanding electric loans as of the date of initial closing;
(k) Require the borrower, if it is a party to a wholesale power contract with a power supply borrower, to provide the Administrator with such assurances as the Administrator may require that it is in compliance with and will continue to comply with its obligation to such power supply borrower;
(l) Provide RUS, if the Administrator determines it necessary, with security for all outstanding rural development loans and amendments to any outstanding rural development loan agreements in form and substance, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to RUS;
(m) Prescribe remedies for violating the terms and conditions of the prepayment agreement;
(n) Provide for termination by RUS of the right for the borrower to prepay thereunder;
(o) Provide evidence that any approvals required from any supplemental lender have been obtained; and
(p) Set forth such other terms and conditions as the Administrator shall deem appropriate.
§ 1786.159
Initial closing.
(a) Upon receipt of the prepayment agreement, the borrower may submit, pursuant to the terms of the prepayment agreement, a closing request which shall request a closing date no less than 30 business days from the date of the request.
(b) The Government will respond to the borrower's closing request by delivering a preclosing notice to the borrower not less than 10 business days prior to the date which the Government, after reviewing the borrower's closing request, selects as a closing date.
§ 1786.160
Subsequent closings.
(a) Each subsequent prepayment after the initial closing shall be facilitated with the submission of an additional closing request by the borrower. Each closing request must request a closing date no less than 30 business days from the date of the request.
(b) The Government will respond to each subsequent closing request by delivering a preclosing notice to the borrower not less than 10 business days prior to the date which the Government, after reviewing the borrower's closing request, selects as a closing date in each case.
§ 1786.161
Return of Qualified Notes and release of lien.
Upon payment to RUS at closing of the full amount specified in the notice delivered by RUS to the borrower pursuant to the terms of the prepayment agreement (see § 1786.158(e)), RUS will deliver to the borrower at closing those Qualified Notes which have been paid in full at such closing, and upon payment and discharge of all outstanding RUS debt obligations by the borrower, RUS will deliver to the borrower at the final closing a release of lien prepared by the borrower pursuant to the terms of the prepayment agreement.
§ 1786.162
Outstanding loan documents.
(a) Except as expressly provided in this subpart, the borrower shall comply with all provisions of its RUS Loan Contract, its outstanding notes issued to RUS, and the RUS Mortgage.
(b) Nothing in this subpart shall affect any rights of supplemental lenders under the RUS Mortgage, or other creditors of the borrower.
(c) Nothing in this subpart shall prohibit a borrower from making prepayments of any loans pursuant to the RE Act in accordance with the terms of such loans.
§ 1786.163
Existing wholesale power contracts.
(a) If the borrower is a party to a wholesale power contract with a power supply borrower financed pursuant to
the RE Act, the Administrator may require that the borrower and the power supply borrower enter into a supplement to the outstanding wholesale power contract providing substantially as follows:

# Sample Contract Terms
So long as any of the notes evidencing secured loans of the power supply borrower are outstanding, the borrower will not, without the approval in writing of the power supply borrower and the Administrator, take or suffer to be taken any steps for reorganization or dissolution, or to consolidate with or merge into any corporation, or to sell, lease or transfer (or make any agreement therefor) all or a substantial portion of its assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired. The power supply borrower will not unreasonably withhold or condition its consent to any such, reorganization, dissolution, consolidation, or merger, or to any such sale, lease or transfer (or any agreement therefor) of assets. The power supply borrower will not withhold or condition such consent except in cases where to do otherwise would result in rate increases for the other members of the power supply borrower or impair the ability of the power supply borrower to repay its secured loans in accordance with their terms, or adversely affect system performance in a material way. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the borrower may take or suffer to be taken any steps for reorganization or dissolution or to consolidate with or merge into any corporation or to sell, lease or transfer (or make any agreement therefor) all or a substantial portion of its assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired without the power supply borrower's consent, so long as the borrower shall pay such portion of the outstanding indebtedness on the power supply borrower's notes or other obligations as shall be determined by the power supply borrower with the prior written consent of the Administrator and shall otherwise comply with such reasonable terms and conditions as the Administrator and power supply borrower may require either: (1) To eliminate any adverse effect that such action seems likely to have on the rates of the other members of the power supply borrower, or
(2) To assure that the power supply borrower's ability to repay the secured loans and other obligations of the power supply borrower in accordance with their terms is not impaired.
The Administrator may require, among other things, that any payment owed under (2) of the preceding sentence that represents a portion of the power supply borrower's indebtedness on Notes shall be paid by the borrower in the manner necessary to accomplish a defeasance of those obligations in accordance with the loan documents relating thereto, or be paid directly to the holders of the Notes for application by them as prepayments in accordance with the provisions of such documents, or be paid to the power supply borrower and held and invested in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.

# [End of sample contract terms]
(b) The Administrator may exempt a borrower from the requirement to enter into a supplement to its outstanding wholesale power contract if the Administrator determines that such requirement is burdensome and unnecessary in light of the provisions of the existing wholesale power contract, other security arrangements of the power supply borrower, and any other relevant facts and circumstances. Normally such exemption will be granted only with the concurrence of the power supply borrower.
§ 1786.164
Loan fund audit.
In the event that a borrower shall prepay all its outstanding electric loans RUS shall have the right to audit within six (6) months of closing transactions involving the RUS Construction Fund Account established and maintained by the borrower pursuant to the terms of the RUS Loan Contract and to inspect all books, records, accounts, and other documents and papers of the borrower. Should RUS determine that the borrower has made disbursements of funds advanced pursuant to the RUS Loan Contracts which do not comply with the requirements thereof, the borrower shall be required to pay the RUS an amount equal to the difference between the amount which the borrower prepaid under this subpart with respect to such advances, and the amount which the borrower would otherwise have been required to return to the RUS as a result of noncompliance if the borrower had not prepaid such advances, plus interest. (See 7 CFR part 1721, Post-Loan Policies and Procedures for Insured Electric Loans.)
§ 1786.165
Reporting.
Borrowers that no longer have any loans made or guaranteed by RUS and are considering applying for other financial assistance pursuant to the RE Act are encouraged to file the end-of-year operating report, RUS Form 7.
§ 1786.166
Approvals.
The borrower shall be responsible for obtaining all approvals necessary to consummate the transaction as required by the prepayment agreement, including such approvals as may be required by regulatory bodies and other lenders.
§ 1786.167
Restrictions to additional RUS financing.
(a) No borrower that prepays an electric loan at a discount as provided under this subpart may apply for or receive direct or insured loans during the 120 months from the most recent closing date, except at the discretion of the Administrator. During the 120 month period the Administrator may consider providing an insured loan if, among other matters, it is necessary to assure repayment of, or protect the Government's security for any outstanding loans or loan guarantees, or the borrower's system has suffered severe physical plant related damage due to conditions beyond its control and the borrower is unable to obtain financing at reasonable terms to restore the system from non-RUS sources, including the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and from private sources. Upon expiration of the 120 months, such borrowers may apply for direct or insured loans in the same manner as other borrowers provided that such borrowers may not apply for direct or insured loans for facilities, construction of which commenced prior to the expiration of the 120 months. Special provisions for mergers involving a borrower that has prepaid pursuant to this subpart are in 7 CFR 1717.158.
(b) Borrowers that prepay their direct or insured RUS loans under this subpart remain eligible for certain types of financial assistance under the RE Act, including loan guarantees and rural development loans.
[59 FR 13620, Mar. 22, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 66874, Dec. 19, 1996]
§ 1786.168
Borrowers who prepaid under this part prior to October 21, 1992.
(a) A borrower that had prepaid, prior to the date of enactment of Public Law 102-428 (106 Stat. 2183) on October 21, 1992, at a discount rate as provided at 7 CFR part 1786, subpart C:
(1) Shall not be eligible except at the discretion of the Administrator as stated in paragraph § 1786.167(a), to apply for or receive direct or insured loans during the 180-month period beginning on the date of the prepayment; and
(2) Shall not be eligible to apply for or receive direct or insured loans from RUS until the borrower has repaid to the RUS the sum of:
(i) The amount (if any) by which the discount the borrower received by reason of the prepayment exceeds the discount the borrower would have received had the discount been based on the cost of funds to the Department of the Treasury as calculated at § 1786.153 at the time of the prepayment; and
(ii) Interest on the amount described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the period beginning on the date of the prepayment and ending on the date of the repayment, at a rate equal to the average annual cost of borrowing by the Department of the Treasury. This rate will be calculated first on the date of prepayment and at one year intervals from that date based on the same U.S. Treasury issues published in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release closest to that date. The Treasury rate of interest to be applied for each year will be the rate for the Treasury issue of comparable maturity to the number of years from the prepayment date to the repayment date and at one year intervals thereafter.
(b) If a borrower and the Administrator have entered into an agreement with respect to a prepayment occurring before October 21, 1992, this section shall supersede any provision in the agreement relating to the restoration of eligibility for loans under the RE Act.
(c) Borrowers who prepaid prior to October 1, 1987, are eligible for assistance under the RE Act in the same manner as other borrowers with respect to loan guarantees and the rural development loans.
(d) During the 180 month period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section the Administrator may consider providing an insured loan, if the conditions described in § 1786.167(a) exist.
(e) Borrowers may not apply for direct or insured loans for facilities, construction of which commenced prior to the expiration of the 180 month period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
§ 1786.169
Liability.
It is the intent of this subpart that any failure on the part of RUS to comply with any provisions of this subpart, including without limitation, those provisions setting forth specified timeframes for action by RUS on applications for prepayments or closing requests, shall not give rise to liability of any kind on the part of the Government or any employees of the Government including, without limitation, liability for damages, fees, expenses or costs incurred by or on behalf of a borrower, private lender or any other party.
§ 1786.170
Prepayment of loans approved after December 20, 1993. [Reserved]
§§ 1786.171-1786.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Refinancing and Prepayment of RUS Guaranteed FFB Loans Pursuant to Section 306(C) of the RE Act

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
); sec. 1201(b) of subtitle B of title 1 of Pub. L. 103-66, 107 Stat. 312.

# Source:
58 FR 51008, Sept. 30, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1786.200
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures of RUS through the existing FFB program, whereby borrowers may prepay and refinance, outstanding FFB Notes evidencing electric or telephone loans with FFB, pursuant to the provisions of section 306(C) of the RE Act as added by Public Law 103-66, 107 Stat. 312, enacted August 10, 1993.
§ 1786.201
Definitions and rules of construction.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Borrower
means any organization which has an outstanding note(s) evidencing electric or telephone loans guaranteed by RUS, from FFB.
Business day
means any such day on which both the Federal Financing Bank and Federal Reserve Bank—New York are open for business.
Electric loan
means a loan made by FFB and guaranteed by RUS under section 306 of the RE Act for electric service.
FFB
means the Federal Financing Bank, an instrumentality and wholly owned corporation of the United States.
Government
means the United States of America, acting through the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service.
Loan guarantee
means RUS's guarantee under section 306 of the RE Act of a loan from FFB.
Payment date
means the date that payment is due and is the last day in a calendar quarter.
Prepayment penalty
means the same as prepayment premium.
Prepayment premium
shall have the meaning set forth at § 1786.207.
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
REA
means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.
Refinancing note
shall have the meaning set forth at § 1786.206.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
RUS loan contract
means the agreement, as amended, supplemented, or restated from time to time, between a borrower and RUS providing for loans or loan guarantees pursuant to the RE Act.
RUS mortgage
means collectively those mortgages and security agreements made by and between the borrower and the Government, securing indebtedness evidencing electric and telephone loans or loan guarantees made pursuant to RE Act. The term includes such mortgages regardless whether third parties are mortgagees with RUS.
Supplemental lender
means a private lender whose loan to the borrower is secured under an RUS mortgage.
Telephone loan
means a loan made by FFB and guaranteed by RUS under section 306 of the RE Act for telephone service.
(b)
Rules of construction.
Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the terms defined in paragraph (a) of this section include the plural as well as the singular, and the singular as well as the plural. The words “herein,” “hereof” and “hereunder”, and words of similar import, refer to this subpart as a whole.
[58 FR 51008, Sept. 30, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994]
§ 1786.202
Prepayment and refinancing of RUS guaranteed FFB loans.
The borrower of an electric or telephone loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by RUS under section 306 of the RE Act may, at the option of the borrower, refinance or prepay a loan or an advance on the loan, or any portion of the loan or advance in accordance with section 306C of the RE Act, after meeting certain conditions using the procedures prescribed in the note. After refinancing existing notes under this section, additional prepayments or refinancings will be governed by the terms of the refinancing note(s).
§ 1786.203
Special considerations.
Generally all FFB borrowers with loans guaranteed by RUS whose FFB notes have not been accelerated are eligible to prepay or refinance under this part. All requests for prepayment or refinancing will be processed in accordance with this subpart except that some requests for refinancing and prepayments are more complicated and thus will involve special considerations. These requests will have to be handled on a case by case basis and include:
(a) Telephone borrowers who are required to meet certain terms of their indenture;
(b) Borrowers who have amended their old form note or have already repriced prior to September 30, 1993;
(c) Borrowers that have been involved in a merger or consolidation;
(d) Borrowers whose obligations to RUS, FFB notes, or security instruments differ from those normally used;
(e) A request to prepay or refinance an amount of less than $100,000 or an amount of less than the full amount of an advance outstanding; or
(f) A request to prepay or refinance a note that includes unadvanced loan funds.
§ 1786.204
Limitations.
(a) No more than three refinancing notes will be executed for any borrower per calendar year.
(b) The borrower may not select a term for the refinanced advance that ends after the maturity date set for that advance.
§ 1786.205
Application procedure.
(a) Any borrower seeking to prepay or refinance an advance from the FFB under this subpart should apply by letter to the appropriate RUS Regional Director or, in the case of power supply borrowers, to the Director of the Power Supply Division. The borrower will be required to submit applications and elections in a digital format to be supplied by RUS. The application letter shall provide the following:
(1) Borrower's RUS designation;
(2) Borrower's name and address;
(3) Listing of each note to be prepaid by loan designation, RUS note number, RUS account number, advance date, maturity date, original amount, outstanding balance, and date(s) of any substitute FFB note(s) amending the original FFB Note;
(4) A statement of the borrower's intention to finance the premium by an addition to principal balance or to pay the premium in cash or with unsecured debt;
(5) A statement of the maturity options that the borrower wishes to select;
(6) Such additional information as the Administrator may request.
(b) Requests for refinancing or prepayment will ordinarily be processed in the order that they are received. Borrower's may withdraw an application by notifying the appropriate RUS office in which they filed the application.
(c) When the request for prepayment or refinancing is approved for processing the borrower will be provided with appropriate instructions, documents and forms which may include but are not limited to the following:
(1) An FFB refinancing note;
(2) Resolution of Board of Directors;
(3) Legal Opinion;
(4) Certificate of Secretary;
(5) Waiver of Notice;
(6) Notice to borrower electing an effective date other than a scheduled quarterly payment date (if applicable);
(7) Documentation of obligations secured pursuant to section 1786.208 if any; and
(8) Security instrument.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0032)
§ 1786.206
Refinancing note.
(a) RUS will issue a replacement guaranty for refinancing notes delivered to FFB to replace and substitute for existing FFB notes in connection with any refinancing by FFB pursuant to section 306C of the RE Act.
(b) Generally, refinancing notes will, to the extent practicable, consolidate all of a borrower's existing FFB notes which have been guaranteed by RUS and containing terms and conditions as FFB may require and RUS and the borrower may accept.
(c) Notwithstanding any contrary provision contained in this subpart, RUS will give preference to processing refinancings that utilize a generic form of refinancing note in the event that FFB prescribes one.
[58 FR 51008, Sep. 30, 1993; 58 FR 58729, Nov. 3, 1993]
§ 1786.207
Prepayment premium.
(a) A premium shall be assessed against a borrower that refinances or prepays a loan or loan advance, or any portion of a loan or advance, under this section. RUS will collect the prepayment premium as calculated by FFB. FFB will calculate this premium as described in this section. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the premium shall be equal to the lesser of:
(1) The difference between the outstanding principal balance of the loan being refinanced and the present value of the loan discounted at a rate equal to the then current cost of funds to the Department of the Treasury for obligations of comparable maturity to the loan being refinanced or prepaid;
(2) 100 percent of the amount of interest for 1 year on the outstanding principal balance of the loan or loan advance, or any portion of the loan or advance, being refinanced, multiplied by the ratio that:
(i) The number of quarterly payment dates between the date of the refinancing or prepayment and the maturity date for the loan advance; bears to
(ii) The number of quarterly payment dates between the first quarterly payment date that occurs 12 years after the end of the year in which the amount being refinanced was advanced and the maturity date of the loan advance; and
(3)(i) The present value of 100 percent of the amount of interest for 1 year on the outstanding principal balance of the loan or loan advance, or any portion of the loan or advance, being refinanced or prepaid; plus
(ii) For the interval between the date of the refinancing or prepayment and the first quarterly payment date that occurs 12 years after the end of the year in which the amount being refinanced or prepaid was advanced, the present value of the difference between:
(A) Each payment scheduled for the interval on the loan amount being refinanced or prepaid; and
(B) The payment amounts that would be required during the interval on the amounts being refinanced or prepaid if the interest rate on the loan were equal to the then current cost of funds to the Department of the Treasury for obligations of comparable maturity to the loan being refinanced or prepaid.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the premium provided by paragraph (a)(1) of
this section shall be required for refinancing or prepayment under this section.
(2) In the case of a loan advanced under an agreement that permits the refinancing or prepayment of the loan advance based on the payment of 1 year of interest on the outstanding principal balance of the loan advance, a borrower may, in lieu of the premium required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, pay a premium as provided by:
(i) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if the loan advance has reached the 12-year maturity required under the loan agreement for the refinancing or prepayment; or
(ii) Paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if the loan advance has not reached the 12-year maturity required under the loan agreement for the refinancing or prepayment.
§ 1786.208
Increased principal.
A borrower can meet the premium requirements by increasing the outstanding principal balance of the loan advance that is being refinanced. If it does so the borrower shall make a payment at the time of the refinancing equal to 2.5 percent of the amount of the premium that is added to the outstanding principal balance of the loan.
§ 1786.209
Outstanding loan documents.
(a) Except as expressly provided in this subpart, the borrower shall comply with all provisions of its RUS loan contract, its outstanding notes issued to RUS, and the RUS mortgage.
(b) Nothing in this subpart shall affect any rights of supplemental lenders under the RUS mortgage or the rights of any other creditors of the borrower.
(c) Nothing in this subpart shall prohibit a borrower from making prepayments on any loans pursuant to the RE Act in accordance with the terms thereof or as may be otherwise permitted by law.
§ 1786.210
Approvals.
The borrower shall be responsible for obtaining all approvals necessary to consummate the transaction as required by the refinancing note, including such approvals as may be required by regulatory bodies and other lenders.
Pt. 1787

# PART 1787—THE “BUY AMERICAN” REQUIREMENT
Sec.
1787.1
General.
1787.2
Definitions.
1787.3
Products constituting a portion of a purchase order or contract.
1787.4
Unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies.
1787.5
Eligible countries.
1787.6
Nondomestic products.
1787.7
Components.
1787.8
Purchase of nondomestic products.
1787.9
Waivers.
1787.10
Application for specific waivers.
1787.11
Cost differential.
1787.12
Non-availability or shortages.
1787.13
Public interest or impracticality.
1787.14
General waivers.
Appendix A to Part 1787—Product Procurement

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 903.

# Source:
83 FR 60730, Nov. 27, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1787.1
General.
(a) The “Buy American” provision of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (RE Act) requires, to the extent practicable and the cost of which is not unreasonable, that RUS Borrowers use loan funds only for such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country, substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States or any eligible country.
(b) Each RUS Borrower is responsible for assuring that its use of loan funds complies with this requirement, and that the contracts it enters into for construction, materials and equipment, and purchases with vendors contain the Buy American requirement, along with certification as to compliance, made through RUS Form 213.
§ 1787.2
Definitions.
For purpose of this part, the following terms have the following meanings:
Administrator.
The Administrator of the RUS, or his/her designee.
Buy American.
A provision of the RE Act requiring that loan funds only be used to purchase products made in the U.S. or an eligible country.
Component.
Any article, material, or supply, whether manufactured or unmanufactured, that is directly incorporated into the end product at the final assembly location.
Domestic product.
A product or like product which both:
(1) Is manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country; and
(2) Contains components manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country consisting of more than 50 percent of the total cost of all components used in the product.
Eligible country.
Any country that the United States Trade Representative determines as having corporations located therein, as eligible to enter into contract with an RUS Borrower, under which loan funds will be provided for unmanufactured and manufactured goods.
Loan funds.
Funds provided under an RUS direct or guaranteed loan.
Manufactured.
The application of processes to alter the form or function of materials or of elements of the product such that value is added or the materials or elements are transformed into a new end product functionally different from that which would result from mere assembly of the materials or elements.
Nondomestic bid.
An offer to sell a nondomestic product to an RUS borrower.
Nondomestic product.
Any product other than a domestic product or product from an eligible country.
Product.
An item of manufactured material or assembled components, which is complete and capable of performing an intended practical purpose.
RE Act.
Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
RUS.
The Rural Utilities Service.
RUS Borrower.
Any organization that has an outstanding RUS loan made or guaranteed by RUS pursuant to the RE Act.
Telecommunications.
Any communication service for the transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writings, or signs of all kinds, by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means, including all telephone lines, facilities, or systems used in the rendition of such service; but shall not be deemed to mean message telegram service or community antenna television system services or broadcasting facilities other than those intended exclusively for educational purposes, or radio broadcasting services or facilities within the meaning of section 3(o) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
Unmanufactured.
With respect to articles, materials, or supplies, refers to such goods that have not been manufactured.
§ 1787.3
Products constituting a portion of a purchase order or contract.
Where a supplier or contractor offers or furnishes several products under a purchase order or contract, the provisions of this part apply to each product individually.
§ 1787.4
Unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies.
The Buy American requirement also applies to unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies to be financed with RUS loan funds, and will be considered domestic if mined or produced in the United States or in an eligible country.
§ 1787.5
Eligible countries.
The United State Trade Representative (USTR) determines what countries are eligible countries with respect to purchases made by electric borrowers or telecommunications borrowers. A particular country may be determined to be an eligible country for purchases made by telecommunications borrowers, for electric borrowers, or both. RUS maintains the latest
Federal Register
notice on its website which sets out the list of Eligible Countries for each RUS program at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/UEP_Engineering_EligibleCountries.pdf.
§ 1787.6
Nondomestic products.
A product is considered to be nondomestic for the purpose of compliance with the “Buy American” requirement if:
(a) The product is manufactured outside the United States or any eligible country; or
(b) The product is manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country, but the cost of nondomestic components used therein constitutes 50 percent or more of the cost of all components. The cost of components shall be determined on a comparable basis, so that only the cost of domestic and nondomestic components, up to the point where they are combined and manufactured into a complete product shall be considered.
(1) The determination of the cost of the nondomestic components of a product shall include:
(i) The price paid to the nondomestic source;
(ii) The cost of shipment to the port of entry into the United States;
(iii) Applicable tariffs or duties;
(iv) The cost of transportation from the port of entry to the distributor's plant or warehouse; and
(v) Profit, overhead, and commissions of domestic and nondomestic suppliers and subcontractors of the components.
(2) The following items shall not be considered in determining the cost of components, although they are proper elements in the determination of the final selling price of the product:
(i) Fabrication or processing costs, if any, of nondomestic or domestic components at the assembly plant, or any other place of fabrication in the United States or any eligible country;
(ii) Testing costs at the assembly plant or at the installation site;
(iii) Direct profit, overhead, and commissions of the domestic distributor; and
(iv) Cost of transportation from the domestic assembly point to the installation site.
§ 1787.7
Components.
Where a component is manufactured only determines whether the component is classified as domestic or nondomestic even if all the materials and subcomponents comprising the component are manufactured in ineligible countries. A component manufactured in the United States or in an eligible country shall be considered domestic when determining whether a product is classified as domestic or nondomestic. A component manufactured in an ineligible country shall be considered nondomestic.
§ 1787.8
Purchase of nondomestic products.
An RUS Borrower may only use loan funds to purchase a nondomestic product if a waiver pursuant to § 1787.10 has been received by the Administrator before entering into a contract with the vendor. Should the Administrator deny the waiver request, the RUS Borrower must use its own funds for the expenditure.
§ 1787.9
Waivers.
Under limited circumstances the Administrator may waive the Buy American requirement with respect to a specific contract entered into between an RUS Borrower and a third party which will be paid for with loan funds, subject to §§ 1787.10 through 1787.14.
§ 1787.10
Applications for specific waivers.
RUS borrowers may request a specific waiver of the Buy American requirement through a written, detailed explanation showing that:
(a) The cost between the nondomestic product and domestic product is unreasonable;
(b) There is a non-availability of domestic products; or
(c) It is not in the public interest or impractical for the RUS Borrower to purchase a domestic product.
§ 1787.11
Cost differential.
By application pursuant to § 1787.10, the Administrator may waive the Buy American requirement if the cost of the domestic product is unreasonable. Given that RUS loans terms normally range from 20 to 35 years, and that additional costs will be magnified with interest over these terms, the Administrator has determined that if the lowest bid or offered price is a nondomestic bid that is at least 6percent lower than the next lowest bid or offered price, the RUS Borrower may request a cost differential waiver. With respect to contracts that are not required to be bid, prices of market-available, domestic products must be used for comparison in a request for waiver.
§ 1787.12
Non-availability or shortages.
By application pursuant to § 1787.10, the Administrator may waive the Buy American requirement upon a showing that there is no domestic product available in the market in sufficient and reasonable quantities and of satisfactory quality, and that such shortage of suitable domestic alternatives jeopardizes the project being completed on budget and/or according to scheduled planning. A lack of responsive and responsible bids to a well-publicized request for bids will be presumed to meet the conditions of a non-availability waiver. With respect to contracts that are not required to be bid, sufficient evidence must be presented to the Administrator in order to make a determination.
§ 1787.13
Public interest or impracticality.
(a) By application pursuant to § 1787.10, the Administrator may waive the Buy American requirement upon a showing that application of the requirement would be inconsistent with the public interest or impractical for the RUS Borrower. With respect to impracticality, an RUS Borrower may request a waiver upon a showing that the domestic product is incompatible or impractical to integrate with existing, significant capital infrastructure or existing, critical software already in use. Notwithstanding, the burden shall rest with the RUS Borrower to present how the use of the domestic product would create a hardship or negatively impact its project.
(b) With respect to contracts that were approved by RUS based on a bidder or offer that originally certified compliance with the Buy America requirements, but which can no longer comply with such certification, the Administrator may grant an impracticality waiver based on a showing that the original certification was made in good faith and that the product cannot now be obtained domestically due to commercial impossibility or impracticability, or without undue hardship or a negative impact to the project.
(c) In determining whether to issue any public interest waiver, the Administrator will consider all appropriate factors on a case-by-case basis, unless a general waiver has already been issued by the Administrator with respect to the product.
§ 1787.14
General waivers.
(a) The Administrator may issue a general waiver for all RUS Borrowers for a determinate period, if the Administrator finds that such manufactured or unmanufactured goods are in shortage regionally or nationally, so as to avoid the administrative burden of issuing individual, specific waivers.
(b) The Administrator has determined that it is in the best interest of RUS to issue a permanent general public interest waiver from the Buy America requirements for “small purchases,” which shall be published in the
Federal Register
for each program under the RE Act and amended as needed from time to time. In carrying out this exception, however, the Administrator shall ensure that contracts are not artificially fragmented.
Pt. 1787, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1787—Product Procurement
This appendix shows an example of how the 6 percent differential is applied to determine award of a bid. In response to a request for bids for a digital central office a borrower receives four responsive bids to the specification, three domestic bids and one nondomestic bid. The nondomestic bid is the apparent low bid. We will consider in our analysis the nondomestic bid and the lowest domestic bid as shown in the following table.
Nondomestic bid
Domestic
bid
Total materials
$895,000
$920,000
Installation
155,000
177,000
Freight
+1,000
+1,500
Total bid
$1,051,000
$1,098,500
Please note that once the product has been determined as nondomestic, the 6 percent cost differential shall be applied to all the material content in the nondomestic bid, even if the nondomestic product includes domestic components.
In this example, 6 percent of the total material content in the nondomestic bid ($895,000) equals $53,700. This cost differential is added to the total nondomestic bid as shown in the following table.
Total of the nondomestic bid
$1,051,000
6% of the all material cost
+53,000
Total evaluated bid
$1,104,700
This total evaluated bid, (that is the nondomestic bid plus the 6% of the cost of its material content), is compared with all the domestic bids for award of the bid. In our example the domestic bid ($1,098,500) is lower than the nondomestic evaluated bid ($1,104,700).
The domestic bid becomes the low bid and the domestic bidder gets award of the bid. This product is classified as domestic since the cost of the domestic components used in the product constitutes more than 50 percent of the cost of all the components used.
Pt. 1788

# PART 1788—RUS FIDELITY AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRIC AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS

# Subpart A—Borrower Insurance Requirements
Sec.
1788.1
General and definitions.
1788.2
General insurance requirements.
1788.3
Flood insurance.
1788.4
Disclosure of irregularities and illegal acts.
1788.5
RUS endorsement required.
1788.6
RUS right to place insurance.
1788.7-1788.10
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Insurance for Contractors, Engineers, and Architects, Electric Borrowers
1788.11
Minimum insurance requirements for contractors, engineers, and architects.
1788.12
Contractors' bonds.

# Subpart C—Insurance for Contractors, Engineers, and Architects, Telecommunications Borrowers
1788.46
General.
1788.47
Policy requirements.
1788.48
Contract insurance requirements.
1788.49
Contractors' bond requirements.
1788.50
Acceptable sureties.
1788.51-1788.53
[Reserved]
1788.54
Compliance with contracts.
1788.55
Providing RUS evidence.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
7 U.S.C. 1921
et seq.;
7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.

# Source:
64 FR 2, Jan. 4, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Borrower Insurance Requirements
§ 1788.1
General and definitions.
(a) The standard forms of documents covering loans made or guaranteed by the Rural Utilities Service contain provisions regarding insurance and fidelity coverage to be maintained by each borrower. This part implements those provisions by setting forth the requirements to be met by all borrowers.
(b) As used in this part:
Borrower
means any entity with any outstanding loan made or guaranteed by RUS.
Irregularity
has the meaning found in § 1773.2.
Loan documents
means the loan agreement, notes, and mortgage evidencing or used in conjunction with an RUS loan.
Mortgage
means the mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, or other security document securing an RUS loan.
Mortgaged property
means any property subject to the lien of a mortgage.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service and includes the Rural Telephone Bank.
RUS loan
means a loan made or guaranteed by RUS.
(c) RUS may revise these requirements on a case by case basis for borrowers with unusual circumstances.
§ 1788.2
General insurance requirements.
(a) Borrowers will take out, as the respective risks are incurred, and maintain the classes and amounts of insurance in conformance with generally accepted utility industry standards for such classes and amounts of coverage for utilities of the size and character of the borrower and consistent with Prudent Utility Practice. Prudent Utility Practice shall mean any of the practices, methods, and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment, in light of the facts, including but not limited to, the practices, methods, and acts engaged in or approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry in the case of an electric borrower or of the telecommunications industry in the case of a telecommunications borrowers prior thereto, known
at the time the decision was made, would have been expected to accomplish the desired result consistent with cost-effectiveness, reliability, safety, and expedition. It is recognized that Prudent Utility Practice is not intended to be limited to optimum practice, method, or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather is a spectrum of possible practices, methods, or act which could have been expected to accomplish the desired result at the lowest reasonable cost consistent with cost-effectiveness, reliability, safety, and expedition.
(b) The foregoing insurance coverage shall be obtained by means of bond and policy forms approved by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction, and, with respect to insurance upon any part of the mortgaged property securing an RUS loan, shall provide that the insurance shall be payable to the mortgagees as their interests may appear by means of the standard mortgagee clause without contribution. Each policy or other contract for such insurance shall contain an agreement by the insurer that, notwithstanding any right of cancellation reserved to such insurer, such policy or contract shall continue in force for at least 30 days after written notice to each mortgagee of suspension, cancellation, or termination.
(c) In the event of damage to or the destruction or loss of any portion of the mortgaged property which is used or useful in the borrower's business and which shall be covered by insurance, unless each mortgagee shall otherwise agree, the borrower shall replace or restore such damaged, destroyed, or lost portion so that such mortgaged property shall be in substantially the same condition as it was in prior to such damage, destruction, or loss and shall apply the proceeds of the insurance for that purpose. The borrower shall replace the lost portion of such mortgaged property or shall commence such restoration promptly after such damage, destruction, or loss shall have occurred and shall complete such replacement or restoration as expeditiously as practicable, and shall pay or cause to be paid out of the proceeds of such insurance form all costs and expenses in connection therewith.
(d) Sums recovered under any policy or fidelity bond by the borrower for a loss of funds advanced under a note secured by a mortgage or recovered by any mortgagee or holder of any note secured by the mortgage for any loss under such policy or bond shall, unless applied as provided in the preceding paragraph, be used as directed by the borrower's mortgage.
(e) Borrowers shall furnish evidence annually that the required insurance and fidelity coverage has been in force for the entire year, and that the borrower has taken all steps currently necessary and will continue to take all steps necessary to ensure that the coverage will remain in force until all loans made or guaranteed by RUS are paid in full. Such evidence shall be in a form satisfactory to RUS. Generally a certification included as part of the RUS Financial and Statistical Report filed by the borrower annually (RUS Form 7 or Form 12 for electric borrowers, RUS Form 479 for telecommunications borrowers, or the successors to these forms) is sufficient evidence of this coverage.
§ 1788.3
Flood insurance.
(a) Borrowers shall purchase and maintain flood insurance for buildings in flood hazard areas to the extent available and required under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001,
et seq.
) The insurance should cover, in addition to the building, any machinery, equipment, fixtures, and furnishings contained in the building.
(b) The National Flood Insurance Program (see 44 CFR part 59
et seq.
) provides for a standard flood insurance policy; however, other existing insurance policies which provide flood coverage may be used where flood insurance is available in lieu of the standard flood insurance policy. Such policies must be endorsed to provide:
(1) That the insurer give 30 days written notice of cancellation or nonrenewal to the insured with respect to the flood insurance coverage. To be effective, such notice must be mailed to both the insured and RUS and other mortgagees if any and must include information as to the availability of
flood insurance coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program, and
(2) That the flood insurance coverage is at least as broad as the coverage offered by the Standard Flood Insurance Policy.
§ 1788.4
Disclosure of irregularities and illegal acts.
(a) Borrowers must immediately report, in writing, all irregularities and all indications or instances of illegal acts in its operations, whether material or not, to RUS and the Office of the Inspector General (OIG). See 7 CFR 1773.9(c)(3) for OIG addresses. The reporting requirements for borrowers are the same as those for CPA's set forth in § 1773.9
(b) Borrowers are required to make full disclosure to the bonding company of the dishonest or fraudulent acts.
§ 1788.5
RUS endorsement required.
In the case of a cooperative or mutual organization, RUS requires that the following:
Endorsement Waiving Immunity From Tort Liability” be included as a part of each public liability, owned, non-owned, hired automobile, and aircraft liability, employers' liability policy, and boiler policy:
The Insurer agrees with the Rural Utilities Service that such insurance as is afforded by the policy applies subject to the following provisions:
1. The Insurer agrees that it will not use, either in the adjustment of claims or in the defense of suits against the Insured, the immunity of the Insured from tort liability, unless requested by the Insured to interpose such defense.
2. The Insured agrees that the waiver of the defense of immunity shall not subject the Insurer to liability of any portion of a claim, verdict or judgment in excess of the limits of liability stated in the policy.
3. The Insurer agrees that if the Insured is relieved of liability because of its immunity, either by interposition of such defense at the request of the Insured or by voluntary action of a court, the insurance applicable to the injuries on which such suit is based, to the extent to which it would otherwise have been available to the Insured, shall apply to officers and employees of the Insured in their capacity as such; provided that all defenses other than immunity from tort liability which would be available to the Insurer but for said immunity in suits against the Insured or against the Insurer under the policy shall be available to the Insurer with respect to such officers and employees in suits against such officers and employees or against the Insurer under the policy.
§ 1788.6
RUS right to place insurance.
If a borrower fails to purchase or maintain the required insurance and fidelity coverage, the mortgagees may place required insurance and fidelity coverage on behalf and in the name of the borrower. The borrower shall pay the cost of this coverage, as provided in the loan documents.
§§ 1788.7-1788.10
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Insurance for Contractors, Engineers, and Architects, Electric Borrowers
§ 1788.11
Minimum insurance requirements for contractors, engineers, and architects.
(a) Each electric borrower shall include the provisions in this paragraph in its agreements with contractors, engineers, and architects, said agreements that are wholly or partially financed by RUS loans or guarantees. The borrower should replace “Contractor” with “Engineer” or “Architect” as appropriate.
1. The Contractor shall take out and maintain throughout the period of this Agreement insurance of the following minimum types and amounts:
a. Worker's compensation and employer's liability insurance, as required by law, covering all their employees who perform any of the obligations of the contractor, engineer, and architect under the contract. If any employer or employee is not subject to workers' compensation laws of the governing State, then insurance shall be obtained voluntarily to extend to the employer and employee coverage to the same extent as though the employer or employee were subject to the workers' compensation laws.
b. Public liability insurance covering all operations under the contract shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million each occurrence, limits for property damage of not less than $1 million each occurrence, and $1 million aggregate for accidents during the policy period. A single limit of $1 million of bodily injury and property damage is acceptable. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form.
c. Automobile liability insurance on all motor vehicles used in connection with the contract, whether owned, non-owned, or
hired, shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million per person and $1 million each occurrence, and property damage limits of $1 million for each occurrence. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form.
2. The Owner shall have the right at any time to require public liability insurance and property damage liability insurance greater than those required in paragraphs (a)(1)(b) and (a)(1)(c) of this section. In any such event, the additional premium or premiums payable solely as the result of such additional insurance shall be added to the Contract price.
3. The Owner shall be named as Additional Insured on all policies of insurance required in (a)(1)(b) and (a)(1)(c) of this section.
4. The policies of insurance shall be in such form and issued by such insurer as shall be satisfactory to the Owner. The Contractor shall furnish the Owner a certificate evidencing compliance with the foregoing requirements that shall provide not less than 30 days prior written notice to the Owner of any cancellation or material change in the insurance.
(b) Electric borrowers shall also ensure that all architects and engineers working under contract with the borrower have insurance coverage for Errors and Omissions (Professional Liability Insurance) in an amount at least as large as the amount of the architectural or engineering services contract but not less than $500,000.
(c) The borrower may increase the limits of insurance if desired.
(d) The minimum requirement of $1 million of public liability insurance does not apply to contractors performing maintenance work, janitorial-type services, meter reading services, rights-of-way mowing, and jobs of a similar nature. However, borrowers shall ensure that the contractor performing the work has public liability coverage at a level determined to be appropriate by the borrower.
(e) If requested by RUS, the borrower shall provide RUS with a certificate from the contractor, engineer, or architect evidencing compliance with the requirements of this section.
§ 1788.12
Contractors' bonds.
Electric borrowers shall require contractors to obtain contractors' bonds when required by part 1726, Electric System Construction Policies and Procedures, of this chapter. Surety companies providing contractors' bonds shall be listed as acceptable sureties in the U.S. Department of Treasury Circular No. 570. The circular is maintained through periodic publication in the
Federal Register
and is available on the Internet under ftp://ftp.fedworld.gov/pub/tel/sureties.txt, and on the Department of the Treasury's computer bulletin board at 202-874-6817.

# Subpart C—Insurance for Contractors, Engineers, and Architects, Telecommunications Borrowers
§ 1788.46
General.
This subpart sets forth RUS policies for minimum insurance requirements for contractors, engineers, and architects performing work under contracts which are wholly or partially financed by RUS loans or guarantees with telecommunications borrowers.
§ 1788.47
Policy requirements.
(a) Contractors, engineers, and architects performing work for borrowers under construction, engineering, and architectural service contracts shall obtain insurance coverage, as required in § 1788.48, and maintain it in effect until work under the contracts is completed.
(b) Contractors entering into construction contracts with borrowers shall furnish a contractors' bond, except as provided for in § 1788.49, covering all of the contractors' undertaking under the contract.
(c) Borrowers shall make sure that their contractors, engineers, and architects comply with the insurance and bond requirements of their contracts.
§ 1788.48
Contract insurance requirements.
Contracts entered into between borrowers and contractors, engineers, and architects shall provide that they take out and maintain throughout the contract period insurance of the following types and minimum amounts:
(a) Workers' compensation and employers' liability insurance, as required by law, covering all their employees
who perform any of the obligations of the contractor, engineer, and architect under the contract. If any employer or employee is not subject to the workers' compensation laws of the governing state, then insurance shall be obtained voluntarily to extend to the employer and employee coverage to the same extent as though the employer or employee were subject to the workers' compensation laws.
(b) Public liability insurance covering all operations under the contract shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million each occurrence, limits for property damage of not less than $1 million each occurrence, and $1 million aggregate for accidents during the policy period. A single limit of $1 million of bodily injury and property damage is acceptable. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form.
(c) Automobile liability insurance on all motor vehicles used in connection with the contract, whether owned, non-owned, or hired, shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million per person and $1 million per occurrence, and property damage limits of $1 million for each occurrence. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form.
(d) When a borrower contracts for the installation of major equipment by other than the supplier or for the moving of major equipment from one location to another, the contractor shall furnish the borrower with an installation floater policy. The policy shall cover all risks of damage to the equipment until completion of the installation contract.
§ 1788.49
Contractors' bond requirements.
Construction contracts in amounts in excess of $250,000 for facilities shall require contractors to secure a contractors' bond, on a form approved by RUS, attached to the contract in a penal sum of not less than the contract price, which is the sum of all labor and materials including owner-furnished materials installed in the project. RUS Form 168b is for use when the contract exceeds $250,000. RUS Form 168c is for use when the contractor's surety has accepted a Small Business Administration guarantee and the contract is for $1,000,000 or less. For minor construction contracts under which work will be done in sections and no section will exceed a total cost of $250,000, the borrower may waive the requirement for a contractors' bond.
§ 1788.50
Acceptable sureties.
Surety companies providing contractors' bonds shall be listed as acceptable sureties in the U.S. Department of Treasury Circular No. 570. The circular is maintained through periodic publication in the
Federal Register
and is available on the Internet under ftp://ftp.fedworld.gov/pub/tel/sureties.txt, and on the Department of the Treasury's computer bulletin board at 202-874-6817.
§§ 1788.51-1788.53
[Reserved]
§ 1788.54
Compliance with contracts.
It is the responsibility of the borrower to determine, before the commencement of work, that the engineer, architect, and the contractor have insurance that complies with their contract requirements.
§ 1788.55
Providing RUS evidence.
When RUS shall specifically so direct, the borrower shall also require the engineer, the architect, and the contractor, to forward to RUS evidence of compliance with their contract representative of the insurance company and include a provision that no change in or cancellation of any policy listed in the certificate will be made without the prior written notice to the borrower and to RUS.
Pt. 1789

# PART 1789—USE OF CONSULTANTS FUNDED BY BORROWERS

# Subpart A—Policy and Procedures With Respect to Consultant Services Funded by Borrowers—General
Sec.
1789.150
Purpose.
1789.151
Definitions.
1789.152
Policy.
1789.153
Borrower funding.
1789.154
Eligible borrowers.
1789.155
Approval criteria.
1789.156
Proposal procedure.
1789.157
Consultant contract.
1789.158
Implementation.
1789.159
Contract administration.
1789.160
Access to information.
1789.161
Conflicts of interest.
1789.162
Indemnification agreement.
1789.163
Waiver.
1789.164-1789.165
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Escrow Account Funding and Payments
1789.166
Terms and conditions of funding agreement.
1789.167
Terms and conditions of escrow agreement.
1789.168-1789.175
[Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901-950b; Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
).

# Source:
61 FR 48606, Sept. 16, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Policy and Procedures With Respect to Consultant Services Funded by Borrowers—General
§ 1789.150
Purpose.
This part sets forth policies and the procedures for implementing subsection (c) of section 18 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
)(RE Act) which authorizes the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) to use the services of Consultants funded by the Borrowers to facilitate timely action on Applications by Borrowers for financial assistance and other approvals.
§ 1789.151
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Application
means a request for financial assistance under the RE Act or such other approvals as may be required of the RUS pursuant to the terms of outstanding loan or security instruments or otherwise.
Borrower
means any organization which has an outstanding loan(s) made or guaranteed by RUS or its predecessor agency, the Rural Electrification Administration (REA) under the RE Act or any organization which has submitted or submits an Application before RUS.
Consultant
means a person or firm which has been retained pursuant to this subpart under a contract to provide financial, legal, engineering, environmental, or other technical advice and services.
Consultant Contract
means a contract for the performance of consulting services for RUS, to be paid using funds provided by a Borrower, which may be in the form of a Retainer Contract, purchase order, or other form as may be appropriate.
Escrow Account
means an account established pursuant to § 1789.158.
Escrow Agreement
means an agreement, between a Borrower, a Consultant and a Third-party Commercial Institution, meeting the requirements of § 1789.167.
Final Invoice
means the closing Invoice prepared for a given Task Order.
Financial Consultant
means a Consultant retained pursuant to this part to provide financial advisory services.
Funding Agreement
means an agreement, between a Borrower and a Consultant, providing for the Borrower to fund the costs of a Task Order and otherwise meeting the requirements of § 1789.166.
Indemnification Agreement
means an agreement by a Borrower meeting the requirements of § 1789.162.
Invoice
means an invoice prepared by a Consultant pursuant to the terms of a Consultant Contract.
Legal Consultant
means any Consultant retained pursuant to this part to provide legal services to RUS.
Notice of Proposal to Fund
means a notice meeting the requirements of § 1789.156 provided to RUS by the Borrower.
Organizational conflict of interest
means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage.
Retainer Contract
means a Consultant Contract providing for a minimum required payment to a Consultant irrespective of whether services are utilized by RUS thereunder.
Task Order
means a written request for consultant services pursuant to the terms of a Consultant Contract.
Third-party Commercial Institution
means a commercial financial institution mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Consultant.
§ 1789.152
Policy.
(a) As provided in this subpart, RUS may, at its discretion, use the services of Consultants funded by a Borrower where such services will facilitate timely action on an Application by such Borrower for financial assistance or other approvals. Such Consultants may provide financial, legal, engineering, environmental or other technical advice and services in connection with the review of an Application.
(b) With the approval of RUS, a Borrower may fund the cost of consulting services in connection with the review by RUS of an Application by such Borrower. Such funding shall be provided pursuant to the terms of a Funding Agreement between the Borrower and the Consultant designated by RUS.
(c) RUS may not, without the consent of the Borrower, require, as a condition of processing any Application for approval, that the Borrower agree to pay the costs of a Consultant hired to provide services to RUS.
(d) The government shall retain sole discretion in the selection of Consultants to provide services to RUS and the form of contract utilized. RUS may either use the services of one or more Consultants retained under Retainer Contracts or the government may elect to retain a Consultant not otherwise on retainer. The government shall have sole discretion to prescribe terms and conditions of Consultant Contracts. The Borrower may bring considerations to the attention of the government which the Borrower deems pertinent to the selection process.
(e) RUS shall retain sole discretion as to whether to further pursue use of an outside consultant for the relevant application in the event the Borrower does not enter into the agreements referenced in § 1789.158(c)(3)(iii) within 60 days of the government providing to the Borrower the information set forth in § 1789.158(c)(3).
§ 1789.153
Borrower funding.
Borrowers shall use their general funds for the purposes of funding consultant services hereunder. Borrowers may not use the proceeds of loans made or guaranteed under the RE Act for costs incurred by Borrowers pursuant to the funding of consultant services for RUS.
§ 1789.154
Eligible borrowers.
All Borrowers are eligible to fund consultant services under this part.
§ 1789.155
Approval criteria.
RUS will consider approving the use of consultant services funded by a Borrower on a case by case basis taking into account, among other matters, the following:
(a) Whether such services are required to facilitate timely action on a Borrower's Application. RUS shall determine what represents timely action with respect to each Application considering, among other matters, the review period normally required for such projects by RUS and other lenders and the consequences to the Borrower of adjusting the review period.
(b) The availability of staff resources, the priorities of other projects then before RUS, and the efficiencies to be realized from the use of consultant services.
(c) Whether it is in the best interest of RUS to use Borrower-funded Consultants. Certain types of projects, such as those involving issues of program-wide significance, may not be well suited for the use of Borrower funded Consultants.
§ 1789.156
Proposal procedure.
(a) In the event RUS determines that consideration should be given to the use of a Borrower-funded consultant in connection with the review of an Application, the RUS Regional Director or the Director of the Power Supply Division, as appropriate, will discuss with the Borrower the nature of the Application and the projected review period required of RUS. If RUS concludes that
the projected review period will not result in timely action on the Application, and after being so notified in writing by RUS the Borrower wishes to fund consultant services to facilitate RUS review, the Borrower shall submit to the same Director a funding proposal. The proposal shall set forth the following:
(1) Identification in the heading or caption as a Notice of Proposal to Fund Consulting Services;
(2) Borrower's REA/RUS designation;
(3) Borrower's legal name and address;
(4) A description of the Application, critical issues and concerns relating to the Application, time deadlines, and the consequences of any delays in RUS review;
(5) A description of the consulting service(s) that would facilitate timely RUS review of the Application; and
(6) Such additional documents and information as RUS may request.
(b) RUS will review the Notice of Proposal to Fund and any additional information RUS deems relevant in determining whether to proceed with procuring Borrower funded Consultants. If RUS proposes to utilize Legal Consultants, RUS must obtain the concurrence of the Office of General Counsel (OGC) of the Department of Agriculture. RUS will notify the Borrower in writing of its determination.
§ 1789.157
Consultant contract.
(a) The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 48 CFR Ch. 1, and the Agriculture Acquisition Regulation (AGAR), 48 CFR Ch. 4, shall apply to all Consultant Contracts entered into pursuant to this part except as provided in this section.
(1) Contracts for Legal Consultants shall provide for a technical representative from OGC.
(2) All Consultant Contracts shall provide for an escrow account funding mechanism pursuant to this part and for the government's sole discretion in determining whether payments are to be made from the Escrow Account to the Consultant.
(3) All Consultant Contracts shall provide that payment of all obligations for work performed thereunder must be satisfied by amounts available in the Escrow Account; with the exception of the annual retainer fee, if any, Consultants shall not be entitled to any payments from the government.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be given prominent emphasis in requests for proposals issued under this part.
§ 1789.158
Implementation.
(a) Upon making a determination to go forward with Borrower funding for consulting services, RUS shall initiate a procurement request for a Consultant to provide the services. The government may either contract with a Consultant on a case by case basis or elect to use a Consultant pursuant to an outstanding Retainer Contract. The Borrower will not be informed of the Consultant selected until such time as the government provides the information set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(b) If the government determines to contract with a Consultant on a case by case basis, the government shall notify the Borrower of the applicable procedures.
(c) If the government determines to contract with a Consultant under an outstanding Retainer Contract, the following procedures will normally apply:
(1) Pursuant to the terms of the contract, the government will prepare a draft Task Order requesting consultant services in connection with the review of the Borrower's Application. The draft Task Order shall set forth for the Consultant's review and acceptance, a description of the services to be provided and applicable time frames for the provision of such services.
(2) The government will request that the Consultant:
(i) Notify the government as to the acceptability of the form and substance of the draft Task Order;
(ii) Notify the government as to its ability to provide a satisfactory conflict of interest certification consistent with the requirements of the FAR (48 CFR ch. 1); and
(iii) Provide a cost estimate for the draft Task Order.
(3) When the government is satisfied with the response(s) received pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the
government shall promptly provide to the Borrower:
(i) A copy of the draft Task Order identifying the Consultant;
(ii) The Consultant's cost estimate for the draft Task Order; and
(iii) Contract information required to enable the Borrower to develop a Funding Agreement, an Escrow Agreement and an Indemnification Agreement (the “agreements”).
(4) The Borrower shall develop and submit to the government for approval executed originals of:
(i) The agreements; and
(ii) A certified copy of a resolution of the board of directors authorizing the Borrower to enter into the agreements and to take such other action as is necessary to effect the purposes of the agreements.
(5) Upon receiving written RUS approval of the agreements and the form and substance of the board resolution, the Borrower shall:
(i) Establish and fund the Escrow Account; and
(ii) Provide written notice to the government of the Escrow Account number, the funding thereof, and such other information as required pursuant to the agreements.
(6) After the Borrower has funded the Escrow Account, the government shall issue Task Order(s) for consultant services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Retainer Contract.
§ 1789.159
Contract administration.
The government shall be solely responsible for the administration of a Consulting Contract and shall have complete control over the scope of the Consultant's work, the timetable for performance, the standards to be applied in determining the acceptability of deliverables and the approval of payment of Invoices.
§ 1789.160
Access to information.
The Borrower shall not have rights in nor right of access to the work product of the Consultant. All analyses, studies, opinions, memoranda, and other documents and information provided by the Consultant pursuant to a Consulting Contract may be released and made available to the Borrower only with the approval of RUS. This section does not restrict release of information by RUS pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)) or other legal process.
§ 1789.161
Conflicts of interest.
The standard for determining organizational conflicts of interest shall be as set forth in the FAR subpart 9.5 (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.5); however, the identification of the existence of an organizational conflict of interest may be made by either the Administrator or the cognizant Contracting Officer. In the event an organizational conflict of interest is determined to exist, the cognizant Contracting Officer shall take the actions prescribed at FAR 9.504 (48 CFR 9.504) to attempt to avoid, neutralize or mitigate the conflict. Should these actions be deemed by the Administrator and the Contracting Officer to adequately resolve the conflict, the contracting action with the offeror/contractor may proceed. Should the Administrator or the Contracting Officer determine that an organizational conflict of interest still exists such that contract award or other contracting action cannot be taken (award of task/delivery order, etc.) the offeror/contractor shall be so informed by the Contracting Officer and be provided a reasonable opportunity to respond in accordance with FAR 9.504(e) (48 CFR 9.504(e)). After considering the contractor's response, if it is found by both the Administrator and Contracting Officer to remedy the conflict of interest, the contracting action may proceed. If the Administrator and Contracting Officer determine that the contractor's response does not resolve the conflict of interest, yet continuing with the contracting action with the offeror/contractor in question is considered in the best interest of the United States, a waiver in accordance with FAR 9.503 (48 CFR 9.503) may be executed. This waiver shall be submitted under the Contracting Officer's signature and approved by the Administrator. The Administrator has been delegated Head of Contracting Activity authority by the USDA Senior Procurement Executive solely for the purpose of waiver approval.
§ 1789.162
Indemnification agreement.
As a condition of approving Borrower funding, the government will require the Borrower to enter into an Indemnification Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, providing that the Borrower will indemnify and hold harmless the government and any officers, agents or employees of the government from any and all liability, including costs, fees, and settlements arising out of, or in any way connected with the payment of the Consultant's fee pursuant to the Consultant Contract. The Indemnification Agreement may recognize, as a condition of liability thereunder, the rights of the borrower to prompt notice, to use of counsel of its own choosing, and to participation in any settlement of a claim against which indemnification is sought.
§ 1789.163
Waiver.
RUS may waive any requirement or procedure of this subpart by determining that its application in a particular situation would not be in the government's interest, except that certain provision that the subject contracts are subject to the provisions of the FAR (48 CFR ch. 1) and AGAR (48 CFR ch. 4).
§§ 1789.164-1789.165
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Escrow Account Funding and Payments
§ 1789.166
Terms and conditions of funding agreement.
Funding Agreements between the Borrower and a Consultant shall be in form and substance satisfactory to RUS and provide for, among other matters, the following:
(a) Specific reference by number to the applicable Consulting Contract entered into between the government and the Consultant;
(b) Specific reference by number to the applicable Task Order (where applicable);
(c) A brief description of the Application;
(d) A requirement that Invoices make specific reference to:
(1) The applicable contract and Task Order(s); and
(2) The Escrow Account from which payment is to be made;
(e) A requirement that the Final Invoice for a Task Order be clearly identified as such;
(f) A description of the services to be provided by the Consultant to RUS and the applicable time frames for the provision of such services;
(g) Agreement that the Borrower shall pay for the Consultant services provided to RUS under the applicable contract through an Escrow Account established pursuant to an Escrow Agreement, the Consultant shall not provide services to RUS under the applicable contract unless there are sufficient funds in the Escrow Account to pay for such services, the Consultant shall seek compensation for services provided under the applicable contract from, and only from, funds made available through the Escrow Account, and the Consultant must submit all Invoices to the government for approval.
(h) A form of Escrow Agreement satisfactory to the Borrower, Consultant and the designated Third-party Commercial Institution;
(i) A schedule setting forth when and in what amounts the Borrower shall fund the Escrow Account;
(j) Acknowledgment by the Consultant of the Indemnification Agreement provided by the Borrower to the government; and
(k) The Funding Agreement shall not be effective unless and until approved in writing by RUS.
§ 1789.167
Terms and conditions of escrow agreement.
Escrow Agreements between and among the Borrower, Consultant and Third-party Commercial Institution shall be in form and substance satisfactory to RUS and provide for, among other matters, the following:
(a) Specific reference by number to the applicable contract for services;
(b) Specific reference by number to the applicable Task Order;
(c) Specific reference by number to the Escrow Account into which funds are to be deposited;
(d) Invoices to specifically identify the applicable contract and Task Order(s);
(e) Funds to be held in the Escrow Account by the escrow agent until paid to the Consultant pursuant to the government's authorization;
(f) The Escrow Account to be closed and all remaining funds remitted to the Borrower after payment of the Final Invoice, unless otherwise directed by the government;
(g) The government, the Consultant and the Borrower to have the right to be informed, in a timely manner and in such form as they may reasonably request, as to the status of and activity in the Escrow Account; and
(h) The Escrow Agreement shall not be effective unless and until approved in writing by RUS.
§§ 1789.168-1789.175
[Reserved]
Pt. 1792

# PART 1792—COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER FEDERAL STATUTES, REGULATIONS, AND EXECUTIVE ORDERS
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Seismic Safety of Federally Assisted New Building Construction
Sec.
1792.101
General.
1792.102
Definitions.
1792.103
Seismic design and construction standards for new buildings.
1792.104
Seismic acknowledgments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
1921
et seq.,
6941
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.;
E.O. 12699 (3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 269).

# Source:
58 FR 32437, June 10, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Seismic Safety of Federally Assisted New Building Construction
§ 1792.101
General.
(a) The Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
) was enacted to reduce risks to life and property through the establishment and maintenance of an effective earthquake hazards reduction program (the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program or NEHRP). The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is designated as the agency with the primary responsibilities to plan and coordinate the NEHRP. This program includes the development and implementation of feasible design and construction methods to make structures earthquake resistant. Executive Order 12699 of January 5, 1990, Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted or Regulated New Building Construction (3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 269), requires that measures to assure seismic safety be imposed on federally assisted new building construction.
(b) This subpart identifies acceptable seismic standards which must be employed in new building construction funded by loans, grants, or guarantees made by the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) or the Rural Telephone Bank (RTB) (or through lien accommodations or subordinations approved by RUS or RTB).
[58 FR 32437, June 10, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 76916, Dec. 8, 2000]
§ 1792.102
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms have the following meaning:
Administrator
— Administrator of RUS or the Governor of the Rural Telephone Bank or his or her designee.
Borrower
—An entity which borrows or seeks to borrow money from, or arranges financing with the assistance of RUS through guarantees, lien accommodations or lien subordinations.
Building
—Any structure, fully or partially enclosed, used or intended for sheltering persons or property.
Federally assisted
—The provision of financing assistance by RUS through loans, loan guarantees, grants, and lien accommodations and subordinations.
Grant recipient
—Any entity which receives a grant from RUS.
Lien accommodation
—The consensual sharing of the government's (RUS's) lien on property or the release of government's lien on property.
Lien subordination
—Agreement that the government's (RUS) lien on property will rank below the lien of another entity.
Model Code
—A building code developed for the adoption of local or state authorities or to be used as the basis of a local or state building code.
NEHRP
—National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program.
Registered
—A person licensed by the State(s) or Authority(ies) to perform architectural or engineering services in the State(s) where construction occurs.
RUS
—Rural Utilities Service, and for the purposes of this subpart, shall include the Rural Telephone Bank. For the purposes of RTB borrowers, as used in this subpart, RUS means RTB and Administrator means Governor.
State
—Each of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and territories and possessions of the United States which are authorized to receive loans, loan guarantees, or grants from RUS.
[58 FR 32437, June 10, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994; 65 FR 76916, Dec. 8, 2000; 69 FR 23642, Apr. 30, 2004]
§ 1792.103
Seismic design and construction standards for new buildings.
(a) In the design and construction of federally assisted buildings, the borrowers and grant recipients must utilize the seismic provisions of the most recent edition of those standards and practices that are substantially equivalent to or exceed the seismic safety level in the 2000 edition of the NEHRP Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulation for New Buildings.
(b) Each of the following model codes or standards provides a level of seismic safety substantially equivalent to that provided by the 2000 NEHRP Recommended Provisions and are appropriate for federally assisted new building construction:
(1)
2003 NFPA 5000 Building Construction and Safety Code.
Copies of the book are available from the NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269-7471. Telephone: (617) 770-3000. Fax: (617) 770-0700.
(2) 2002 American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 7,
Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures.
Copies are available from the American Society of Civil Engineers, Publications Marketing Department, 1801 Alexander Bell Drive, Reston, VA 20191-4400. E-mail:
marketing@asce.org.
Telephone: (800) 548-2723. Fax: (703) 295-6211.
(3)
2003 International Code Council (ICC) International Building Code (IBC).
Copies of the book or CD-ROM are available from the International Conference of Building Officials, 4051 West Flossmoor Rd., Country Club Hill, IL 60478. Telephone: (800) 786-4452. Fax: (800) 214-7167.
(c) The NEHRP Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Buildings is available from the Office of Earthquakes and Natural Hazards, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20472.
[69 FR 23642, Apr. 30, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 60658, Oct. 16, 2006]
§ 1792.104
Seismic acknowledgments.
For each applicable building, borrowers and grant recipients must provide RUS a written acknowledgment from a registered architect or engineer responsible for the building design stating that seismic provisions pursuant to § 1792.103 of this subpart will be used in the design of the building.
(a) For projects in which plans and specifications are required to be submitted to RUS, this acknowledgement shall be on the title page of the drawings included with the final plans and specifications. This acknowledgement will include the identification and date of the model code or standard that is used in the seismic design of the building project. The plans and specifications must be dated, signed, and sealed by the registered architect or engineer.
(b) For projects in which plans and specifications are not submitted, this acknowledgement shall be in the form of a statement from the architect or engineer responsible for the building design. The statement shall identify the model code or standard identified that is used in the seismic design of the building or buildings and, shall be dated and signed.
[69 FR 23642, Apr. 30, 2004]
PARTS 1794-1799 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XVIII (1-1-25 Edition)
RHS, RBS, RUS, FSA, USDA

# CHAPTER XVIII—RURAL HOUSING SERVICE, RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, AND RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter XVIII appear at 61 FR 1109, Jan. 16, 1996, and 61 FR 2899, Jan. 30, 1996.

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REGULATIONS
Part
Page
1800-1805
[Reserved]
1806
Insurance
395
1807-1809
[Reserved]
1810
Interest rates, terms, conditions, and approval authority
413

# SUBCHAPTER B—LOANS AND GRANTS PRIMARILY FOR REAL ESTATE PURPOSES
1822
Rural housing loans and grants
414
1823
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTERS C-D [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER E—ACCOUNT SERVICING
1863-1866
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER F—SECURITY SERVICING AND LIQUIDATIONS
1872
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER G—MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
1890-1899
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER H—PROGRAM REGULATIONS
1900
General
426
1901
Program-related instructions
438
1902
Supervised bank accounts
473
1904
Loan and grant programs (individual) [Reserved]
1910
General
483
1922
[Reserved]
1924
Construction and repair
484
1925
Taxes
569
1927
Title clearance and loan closing
570
1930
General
579
1931-1939
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REGULATIONS
PARTS 1800-1805 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1806

# PART 1806—INSURANCE

# Subpart A—Real Property Insurance
Sec.
1806.1
General.
1806.2
Companies and policies.
1808.3
Coverage requirements.
1806.4
Examining and general servicing of insurance.
1806.5
Losses.
1806.6
Failure of borrower to provide insurance.
Exhibit A to Subpart A of Part 1806—Escrow Agreement Real Property Insurance

# Subpart B—National Flood Insurance
1806.21
General.
1806.22
Areas of responsibility.
1806.23
Definitions.
1806.24
Eligibility.
1806.25
Conditions.
1806.26
Coverage and premium rates.
1806.27
Acceptable policies and servicing.
1806.28
Borrowers required to escrow.
Exhibit A to Subpart B of Part 1806—Coverage and Premium Rates
Exhibit B to Subpart B of Part 1806—Servicing Company

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480.

# Subpart A—Real Property Insurance

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 42 U.S.C. 2942; 5 U.S.C. 301; delegation of authority by the Sec. of Agri., 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Asst. Sec. for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70; delegations of authority by Dir., OEO 29 FR 14764, 33 FR 9850.
§ 1806.1
General.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures regarding insurance requirements on real property which serves as security for a debt under the Multi-Family Housing Programs of the Rural Housing Service (RHS), herein referred to as the “Agency.” This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
(b)
Borrower to furnish insurance.
The real estate mortgage executed by the borrower provides that he will furnish and continually maintain and pay for insurance on buildings situated or constructed on the property with companies, in amounts, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to RD until the loan is repaid.
(c)
Borrower's selection of company.
The borrower may select the insurance company provided that the company and insurance policy comply with all the requirements set forth in this Instruction.
(d)
Responsibility.
The County Supervisor is responsible for taking all actions in connection with insurance as may be necessary to protect the security interest of RD. Any unusual situation that may arise with respect to obtaining or servicing insurance should be referred to the State Director. The State Director will refer any questions of a legal nature to the Office of the General Counsel (OGC).
(e)
Use of Form RD 426-1, “Valuations of Buildings.”
The minimum insurance required will be indicated in the appraisal report by the employee who makes the appraisal of property that includes insurable buildings. In the case where no real estate appraisal is required or the appraisal report does not indicate the minimum insurance coverage, Form RD 426-1 will be prepared by the County Supervisor. Reevaluation of the buildings will not be done on appraisal reports; however, when new buildings are constructed or values increase or decrease materially and reevaluation is necessary to properly reflect the buildings' security interest of RD, the County Supervisor will prepare or revise Form RD 426-1 as appropriate. Changes made on an existing Form RD 426-1 will be dated and initialed. The reason for any deletion will be noted on the Form.
[41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 61 FR 59777, Nov. 22, 1996; 72 FR 64121, Nov. 15, 2007; 80 FR 9864, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.2
Companies and policies.
Property insurance policies or other evidence of insurance will be accepted
from borrowers when the requirements outlined herein are complied with fully.
(a)
Companies.
It is desirable that companies be licensed to do business in the particular State or other jurisdiction where the property is located, or that they be otherwise authorized by law to transact business within such State or other jurisdiction (hereinafter called “State”). If the required insurance is not available locally at comparable rates from an insurance company licensed or otherwise authorized to do business in the State, insurance may be accepted from another company if (1) the OGC advises that policies issued by such company will not be rendered unenforceable by virtue of the company's failure to be licensed or otherwise authorized to transact business in the State and that the company is a legal entity which may be sued in the State where the insured property is located, and (2) the State Director determines that the company is reputable and financially sound. In making the above determinations, the State Director will consider all relevant available information such as that which may be obtained from financial statements, Best's Insurance Reports, State insurance authorities, and other lending institutions.
(b)
Insurance policies
—(1)
Standard policies.
If a standard fire insurance policy has been adopted for the State, it should be used unless State statutes exempt the company from the regulations requiring its use. The standard policy is one containing substantially the same standard provisions adopted or recommended by legislative action or by order of the supervisory insurance authorities of the State in which the security is located.
(2)
Other policies.
To be acceptable, any other insurance policies must conform to the requirements of this Instruction.
(i) “Homeowner's” policies, “All Physical Loss” policies, “Broad Form” policies, and other such all-inclusive policies are acceptable if they otherwise meet the requirements of this Instruction.
(ii) A builder's risk policy naming the borrower as the insured or a builder's risk endorsement for a policy issued to the borrower may be accepted during the period a building is under construction if the policy otherwise meets the requirements of this Instruction. If such a policy or endorsement does not automatically convert to full coverage when the building is completed, acceptable insurance must be obtained simultaneously with the expiration of the builder's isk provisions of the policy.
(iii) A builder's risk insurance policy issued to a contractor only may not be substituted for the property insurance, the borrower is required to provide.
(iv) Borrowers eligible for insurance under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended by the Flood Disaster Act of 1973, will be serviced in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(3)
State instructions.
If the State Director and the OGC consider it advisable, a State Instruction may be issued to help County Supervisors identify standard insurance policies adopted for the State. The Instruction should also furnish a guide to assist in identifying other acceptable insurance policy forms that are commonly used by insurance companies in the State, recognizing that such information is not all inclusive.
(4)
Binders.
Whenever there is a justifiable reason for not issuing a policy or endorsement, as required, a written binder will be acceptable for a period not to exceed 60 days from the effective date of the insurance. The written binder must have attached thereto the approved form of mortgage clause. Such a binder will be submitted to the County Supervisor in lieu of an insurance policy or endorsement and the insurance policy or endorsement will be submitted on or before the expiration date of the binder. The State Director, with the advice of the OGC and subject to prior approval of the National Office, may issue a State Instruction authorizing such binders to be accepted for periods longer than 60 days.
(5)
Submission of policies.
(i) For Farmer Program (FP) loans secured by a first lien, the original policy or declaration page must be delivered to the County Supervisor. The original policy or declaration page will be returned to the borrower after one year using Form
RD 426-4, “Notice of Expiration of Insurance.”
(ii) For Single Family Housing (SFH) loans secured by a first lien, the original policy or declaration page must be delivered to the closing agent.
(iii) In cases where an FP or SFH loan is secured by other than a first lien and the mortgage clauses include the names of the prior mortgagees, a certificate of insurance, copy of the policy, or other evidence of insurance is acceptable.
(iv) The County Supervisor will process an advance to pay for insurance only in strict compliance with provisions of § 1806.6 of this subpart.
(6)
Master sets.
If the master sets meet all of the requirements of this Instruction they may be accepted in lieu of an original policy for each Agency borrower.
(i) One complete master set of the different insurance forms for policies issued by the insurance company must be on file in each County Office where the company insures property of Agency borrowers.
(ii) The “Declaration Page” furnished by the insurance company for each borrower insured, in lieu of a complete policy, will be filed in the borrower's case folder. When a “Declaration Page” in the form of a computer printout is used by an insurance company an endorsement on every policy issued by that company or a letter from that company will be obtained and attached to the printout. However, a letter signed by an authorized official of the company and addressed to the State Director may cover all policies issued by that company in the State. Any such endorsements or letters should clearly state that the company considers the printout to be an original “Declaration Page”. Such endorsements or letters are not necessary if the printout itself clearly states that it is an original “Declaration Page.”
(7)
Name and location.
The policy should contain names of all the borrowers who are owners of the property being insured, and it will be returned for correction if it does not do so. The location of the property should be so described in the policy that the property can easily be identified. The complete legal description of the property by metes and bounds is not required. Any deviation from the requirements of this paragraph must first be cleared with the National Office.
(8)
Loss or damage covered.
Buildings must be insured against loss or damage by fire, lightning, windstorm, hail, explosion, riot, civil commotion, aircraft, vehicles, and smoke.
(9)
Effective date of insurance.
If there are insurable buildings located on the property, the borrower will arrange with his agent or company to have adequate insurance in force at the time the loan, assumption, or credit sale is closed so that the policy will properly insure the borrower and the mortgagees. When new buildings are erected or major improvements are made to existing buildings, such insurance will be made effective as of the date materials are delivered to the property. The County Supervisor will make no payments from loan funds for labor or materials until the borrower has furnished adequate insurance to protect the interest of the Agency in the buildings being erected or improved.
(10)
Term.
The borrower will be required to furnish insurance for a term of at least one year with evidence that a full year's premium is paid. The term “premium” as used herein includes any assessments which may be charged to the borrower. If the assessments are of the type imposed only after a loss occurs involving property insured by the insurance company, then the borrower must present evidence (such as a letter from the company) that he currently does not owe any such assessments. The borrower may receive a discount for insuring for a longer period such as three years or five years and with an annual premium. If the insurance contains an automatic renewal clause, its provision should be substantially the following to be acceptable to the Agency:
This policy will be automatically extended for successive terms at expiration of the original term and of each extension thereof, upon payment of renewal premiums. It is a condition of this policy that if the policy expires or is canceled for nonpayment of premium, or for any other reason, the mortgagee will be given 10 days notice.
(11)
Mortgage clause.
The standard mortgage clause adopted by the State
must be attached to or printed in the policy, or Form RD 426-2, “Property Insurance Mortgage Clause (Without Contribution),” must be attached to or the provisions thereof printed in the policy. A letter signed by an authorized official of an insurance company to the State Director, stating that all insurance policies the company issues in the State and in which the Agency has a mortgage interest incorporates all of the provisions of Form RD426-2 may be accepted in lieu of attaching Form RD 426-2 to each policy. If such a blanket letter is used, the Agency will be named in the loss payable clause and a State Instruction will be issued, after prior approval is obtained from the National Office, authorizing the use of such method.
(i) If the use of a mortgage clause, other than the standard mortgage clause (without contribution), has been made mandatory by State laws or insurance regulations, a State Instruction will be issued, after prior approval is obtained from the National Office, authorizing the use of such a form.
(ii) When an approved mortgage clause is printed in the policy a “Loss Payable Clause” is acceptable provided the Agency, as mortgagee, would receive payment in case of loss even though the company would not be liable to the borrower. A “Loss Payable Clause” which contains the statement that the mortgagee is “subject to all terms and conditions of the policy” is not acceptable.
(iii) Whenever a new mortgage clause including the interest of the Agency is issued after the policy has been in force, the new mortgage clause must be signed by an authorized agent or officer of the company that issued the policy. Form RD 426-6, “Transmittal of Property Insurance Mortgage Clause,” may be used to transmit the mortgage clause to the insurance official.
(iv) The Agency and all other mortgagees whose interests are insured by the policy will be shown either in the mortgage clause or in the “Declaration Page” in the order of priority of their mortgages.
(A) “United States of America (Rural Development)” will be named in the mortgage clause for direct and insured loan mortgages naming the Agency as mortgagee, whether in its own right or as trustee under a 2(f) or other agreement with a State Rural Rehabilitation Corporation.
(B) “United States of America (Rural Development), as first mortgagee or as statutory agent and insurer of such mortgagee,” will be named in the mortgage clause for insured FO mortgages naming the lender as mortgagee, whether the mortgage is held by the original or a subsequent lender or by the insurance fund or by the Agency under a trust agreement or declaration of trust.
(C) If the designation is not identical to that set forth in paragraphs (b)(11)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section, whichever is applicable, it will be sufficient if the mortgagee is readily identifiable as Rural Development.
(c)
Evidence of premium payment.
(1) When Form RD 426-2 is attached to or the provisions thereof are printed in the policy, or a blanket letter from an insurance company incorporating the provisions of Form RD 426-2 in all policies in which the Agency has a mortgagee interest in effect, in accordance with paragraph (b)(11) of this section, no evidence of premium or assessment payment is required except for the first year of the loan. When a subsequent FP or section 502 RH loan is made to build, buy or rehabilitate essential buildings an endorsement to the existing policy including coverage for the property improved will be sufficient.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Policy restrictions.
(1) Any insurance on essential buildings as defined in § 1806.3 having restrictions which limit the amount of collectible insurance must meet the Agency requirements set forth below (except for the clause described in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section which is never acceptable); otherwise, such restrictions must be eliminated or modified to afford the required protection.
(i)
Coinsurance clause.
This clause generally provides that in consideration of a reduced rate, the borrower agrees to maintain insurance on his buildings up to a specified percentage (usually 80 percent) of their value and that the company will not be liable for a greater proportion of any partial loss than the amount of insurance bears to
the specified percentage of either the undepreciated replacement value or the depreciated replacement value or the depreciated replacement value (actual cash value) of the buildings at the time of the loss. When the buildings are insured for the specified percentage of their value, the company, in the event of a partial loss, will be liable for the full amount of the loss not to exceed the amount of insurance. A coinsurance clause can be accepted only where the amount of insurance is at least equal to the specified percentage of either the undepreciated replacement value or the depreciated replacement value (actual cash value). For example, an 80 percent coinsurance clause can be accepted only where the amount of insurance on each insured building is at least equal to 80 percent of the appropriate replacement value of the insured building.
(ii)
Three-fourths' value clause.
This clause provides that the liability of the company shall be limited to three-fourths of the depreciated replacement value of the buildings covered at the time of the loss, not to exceed the amount of insurance. This clause may be accepted if the unpaid balance of the loan is not greater than three-fourths of the depreciated replacement value of the building and the amount of insurance is at least equal to the unpaid balance of the loan and any prior liens and no building is insured for more than three-fourths of its depreciated replacement value.
(iii)
Loss deductible clause.
(A) For all loans other than RRH, RCH, and LH organizations this clause generally provides that loss to each building to the extent of the limitation is not recoverable. The company is liable only for loss to each building in excess of such limitation stated in the clause. This clause may be accepted where the limitation does not exceed $150, or one percent of the insurance coverage whichever is greater. In no case, however, may the limitation on any one building exceed $500.00.
(B) For RRH, RCH, and LH organization loans this clause generally provides that loss to each project to the extent of the limitation is not recoverable. The company is liable only for loss to each project in excess of such limitation stated in the clause. This clause may be accepted where the limitation does not exceed the option shown below that is chosen by the borrower and agreed to by the Loan Approving Official and properly annotated in the borrower file. The borrower and the Official should consider the economic impact to the project when selecting the appropriate option.
(
1
) Option 1—Up to one-fourth of one percent (0.0025) of the insurable value. Maximum deductible $5,000.
(
2
) Option 2—Up to a maximum deductible of $500 on any project with an insurable value not exceeding $200,000.
(
3
) Option 3—Option 1 may be chosen and increased above the maximum deductible by an amount equivalent to funds specifically escrowed in the project replacement reserve account as an offset to the increased deductible.
(
4
) Option 4—Option 2 may be chosen and increased above the maximum deductible by an amount equivalent to funds specifically escrowed in the project replacement reserve account as an offset to the increased deductible.
(
5
) The funds used to increase the deductible in Option 3 or Option 4 may be from project funds if it does not create an unsecure financial situation for the project. Also, non-project funds may be used for Option 3 or 4 and then repaid by withdrawal from the project at the rate of 75 percent of the annual insurance premium savings earned by the amount of escrow deposit, up to the amount deposited.
(
6
) The funds escrowed to increase the authorized deductible will be placed in the project reserve account as an increased amount in and above the amount required by the Loan Agreement/Resolution and so annotated in the borrower's accounting system.
(iv)
Three-fourths' loss clause.
This clause provides that the company will not pay more than three-fourths of any loss, nor more than three-fourths of the amount of insurance in force. This clause is never acceptable and must be eliminated.
(v)
Deferred loss payable clause.
This clause provides that, if the amount payable under the policy for any loss to any building insured shall be in excess of a specified portion, (usually 60 percent) of the amount of insurance on
such building, the company will withhold from its initial loss payment any sum in excess of the specified portion of the amount of insurance on such building. If the building sustaining such loss is repaired or replaced within six months from the date of the fire and at or within 300 feet of the original location, as described in the policy, the company upon receipt of evidence to that effect from the insured will pay the full balance withheld from the initial payment, provided the amount expended in repairing or replacing the building damaged or destroyed will equal or exceed the amount of loss as determined under the terms of the policy. Failure to repair or replace any insured building within the time and manner provided will constitute acceptance of the initial payment as full and final settlement under the policy with respect to the loss. This clause may be accepted if the amount of insurance is for the full depreciated replacement value (actual cash value) of the building and the unpaid balance of the loan and any prior lien(s) is not greater than the initial loss payment made by the company.
(vi)
Construction specifications and use conditions.
If the insurance policy contains clauses which specify certain standards of construction or prescribes certain uses of the property for the insurance to be valid, the policy is acceptable only if the property meets such specifications or conditions at the time of acceptance. For example, if the policy provides that the chimney be constructed of a certain type of material, the County Supervisor should be assured that the required material has been used, or if the policy provides that farming operations are not carried out on the premises he should be assured that this condition is met.
(2) Policies generally will not be accepted if, under the terms of the policies or local laws, contributions or assessments may be made against the Agency. However, policies which impose assessments on the borrower may be accepted only if the Agency mortgage will be recorded prior to any failure of the borrower to pay any such assessments. Policies also will not be accepted if, by their terms or other conditions, loss payments are contingent upon collective action by the Board of Directors, or the stockholders, or the members.
(e)
Buildings on leaseholds.
The policy will indicate that the insured is the lessee or tenant and not the owner of the buildings securing the Agency loan; or, if he is the owner of the building on the leased land, the policy will indicate that the insured is the owner of the building, but not of the land. State Directors, with the advice of the OGC will issue State Instructions to meet any other special requirements needed to conform with the insurance requirements of the State to enable leaseholders to obtain property insurance for buildings which are security for the Agency loans.
(7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 40 U.S.C. 442; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 42 U.S.C. 2942; 5 U.S.C. 301; Sec. 10 Pub. L. 93-357, 88 Stat. 392; delegation of authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70; delegations of authority by Director, OEO, 29 FR 14764, 33 FR 9850)
[41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 49990, Nov. 12, 1976; 42 FR 33262, June 30, 1977; 43 FR 56013, Nov. 30, 1978; 44 FR 45115, Aug. 1, 1979; 51 FR 17921, May 16, 1986; 54 FR 35869, Aug. 30, 1989; 56 FR 6945, Feb. 21, 1991; 80 FR 9864, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.3
Coverage requirements.
The County Supervisor should encourage the borrower for his own protection to insure for their depreciated replacement value (actual cash value) all essential buildings. Essential buildings include the dwelling and any other buildings that are necessary for the operation of the property or that provide income to assure orderly repayment of the loan. If insurance is for less than the depreciated replacement value of all essential buildings, the County Supervisor will see that the coverage is obtained on one or more of the most essential buildings. The minimum amount of coverage will be furnished as prescribed below:
(a)
Loans secured by a first lien.
(1) When the unpaid balance of the Agency loan secured by a first lien is equal to or greater than the depreciated replacement value of the essential buildings, or the cost of adequate essential buildings which can be constructed for
amounts less than the depreciated replacement value of the existing buildings, the essential buildings will be insured, to the nearest multiple of insurance that is available, for the lesser of (i) their depreciated replacement value, or (ii) the cost of constructing adequate essential buildings. For example, if insurance is available in only multiples of $1,000, the minimum insurance required on an essential building valued at $6,600 would be $7,000, and that required on an essential building valued at $6,400 would be $6,000.
(2) When the unpaid balance of the loan is less than the sum of the depreciated replacement value of the essential buildings to be insured, the total amount of insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of (i) the unpaid balance of the loan, or (ii) the cost of adequate essential buildings which can be constructed for amounts less than the depreciated replacement value of the existing buildings to be insured.
(3) When, by the use of loan funds or otherwise, buildings are erected or substantial improvements are made to essential buildings, the amount of insurance will be adjusted in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, whichever is applicable.
(b)
Loans secured by other than first liens.
The amount of insurance on buildings in the case of Agency loans secured by other than a first lien will be the same as required in paragraph (a) of this section, with the understanding that the unpaid balance of the loan will be deemed for this purpose to be the amount of the total real estate mortgage indebtedness owed all prior mortgagees named in the mortgage clause, plus the debt to the Agency which is secured by real estate mortgage.
(c)
Exception of buildings from insurance.
(1) Insurance will not be required on a building:
(i) That is not essential.
(ii) In such a state of disrepair that the cost of insurance would be prohibitive.
(iii) Which has a depreciated replacement value of $2,500 or less.
(iv) Which is being or has been repaired with a section 504 loan of $7,500 or less. Families receiving section 504 loans should be encouraged but not required to carry insurance on their home.
(v) On LH security property which was not built or repaired with Agency loan funds provided that the State Director determines that the land and other structures adequately secure the Agency loan and any prior liens.
(vi) On which the hazards are so slight because of the character and construction of the building, or the cost of the insurance is so high in comparison with the value of the building that, according to common standards of judgment, it should not be insured, including but not limited to windmills, silos, and fire-cured tobacco barns.
(vii) In cases where the unpaid balance of the Agency loans and any prior liens have been reduced to $2,500 or less, property insurance need not be required if the borrower wants to discontinue it, provided the County Supervisor determines that the value of the land security itself is sufficient to protect the Agency in its collection of the amount of the outstanding indebtedness.
(viii) If insurance for windstorm and hail to meet all Agency requirements is not available in a hurricane area, the County Supervisor may accept from the borrower or applicant the windstorm and hail insurance policy that most nearly conforms to Agency requirements. If such an exception is made, the situation should be fully documented in the borrower's case file. However, if the best insurance policy a borrower or applicant can obtain at the time he receives a loan contains a loss deductible clause for windstorm and hail damage exceeding $250 or 10 percent of the actual cash value of the buildings, whichever amount is greater, the insurance policy, with an explanation of the reasons why more adequate insurance is not available will be submitted to the State Office for prior approval.
(2) [Reserved]
[41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 56 FR 6945, Feb. 21, 1991; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.4
Examining and general servicing of insurance.
(a)
Examination by county office of policies, endorsements, binders, and other
evidence of insurance.
Upon receipt in the County Office of a policy, endorsement, binder, or other evidence of insurance, submitted by a borrower, it will be examined promptly for compliance with the requirements of this Instruction. If the evidence of insurance is found to be acceptable, it will be placed in the borrower's case folder.
(1)
Unacceptable policies.
(i) When the borrower furnishes any policy or other evidence of insurance which does not meet the requirements of this Instruction such policy or other evidence of insurance will be returned to the borrower with the reasons why it is not acceptable.
(ii) If the borrower does not furnish acceptable insurance by the date the previous policy expired or was canceled, the County Supervisor will proceed as provided in § 1806.6.
(2)
Expiration records and notices.
(i) In cases other than those involving FP or section 502 RH borrowers, the County Supervisor will notify the borrower of the expiration of his insurance at least 30 days in advance of such expiration unless he has received written evidence that the insurance has been renewed.
(ii) FP and Section 502 RH borrowers will be informed during the tenth month after the date of loan closing of their responsibility to carry insurance. Form RD 426-4 will be sent to these borrowers, regardless of whether there is evidence that the insurance has been renewed. Thereafter, the County Supervisor will not be required to further determine whether the borrower has adequately maintained insurance; however, if a further notice of expiration is received in the County Office, the County Supervisor will again notify the borrower by using RD 426-4 of his responsibility.
(3)
Release of mortgage interest.
When the borrower's loan has been paid in full and the satisfaction or release of the mortgage has been executed, the County Supervisor or his delegate will execute the following Release of Mortgage Interest on the mortgage clause attached to the policy or other evidence of insurance and transmit it with the policy or other evidence of insurance, the paid-in-full note, and the satisfaction to the borrower:
It is understood and agreed that the interest of the United States of America in the property insured hereunder ceased as of (Date of Final Payment), and that the Government shall have no interest in any loss or damage to such property occurring thereafter.
(4)
Lost or misplaced policies.
When an unexpired insurance policy or other evidence of insurance is lost or misplaced, it will be necessary to obtain a replacement policy or other evidence of insurance. The County Supervisor is authorized to sign a Lost Policy Receipt on behalf of the Agency. For FP and section 502 RH loans, this paragraph applies only during the period the policy is retained in the County Office.
(5)
Disposition of expired and canceled policies.
An expired or canceled policy or other evidence of insurance will be returned to the borrower, unless there is a loss settlement pending.
(b)
Special servicing of insurance
—(1)
Vacancy or unoccupancy—tenant occupancy—increased hazard.
If the County Supervisor has knowledge that insured property is vacant or unoccupied or that the ownership or occupancy has changed from owner to tenant, or that the hazards otherwise are increased, he will examine the policy to determine whether the policy permits such conditions. Unless the insurance permits such conditions, the County Supervisor will immediately notify the company or agent in writing. In any case where there is an additional premium due because of vacancy, unoccupancy, tenant occupancy, or other increased hazard, upon demand to the Agency from the company or agent because the borrower cannot, or will not, pay the additional premium, it may be paid in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A, to the company or agent. For FP and section 502 RH borrowers, property insurance will not be obtained except in cases where an unusual and severe hazard exists and insurance is necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
(2)
Transfer of property.
(i) When a borrower or transferee requests the consent of the Agency to a transfer of the security property which already has been made, or when the County Supervisor learns that any such transfer
has been made, he will immediately inform the transferee that the mortgage requires the owner to provide and maintain adequate insurance acceptable to, and with loss payable to, the Agency as mortgagee. The transferee may obtain a new insurance policy or the transferor may have the insurance company or agent issue an endorsement to the current insurance policy changing the name of the assured to that of the transferee. If a new insurance policy is obtained, the old policy or other evidence of insurance will be returned to the transferor unless there is an unsettled loss. If there is an unsettled loss, the policy or other evidence of insurance will not be returned until the claim has been settled. The County Supervisor, with the concurrence of the State Director and the OGC, will notify the borrower and transferee that acceptance of the new policy or endorsement will not constitute consent by the Government to the transfer even though the Government is protected by a loss payable clause in such an insurance policy.
(ii) In a transfer with assumption, insurance will be required in the same amount and according to the same provisions as for an initial loan of the same type.
(3)
Voluntary conveyance of property to the Government and foreclosure.
Insurance will not be carried on buildings which the Government has acquired. After a foreclosure sale has been held, or after a deed of conveyance to the Government in lieu of foreclosure has been filed for record, insurance will not be maintained by the Government (whether or not subject to redemption).
[41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 33262, June 30, 1977; 50 FR 39638, Sept. 30, 1985; 54 FR 35869, Aug. 30, 1989; 57 FR 36590, Aug. 14, 1992; 69 FR 69103, Nov. 26, 2004; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.5
Losses.
(a)
Protecting property.
It is the responsibility of the borrower to immediately notify the County Supervisor and insurance company or agent of any loss or damage to insured property and collect the amount of the loss. When the County Supervisor learns of a loss to property which secures an Agency loan, he will:
(1) Check the borrower's casefile for an insurance policy or other evidence of insurance. When a policy or other evidence of insurance has not been retained by the Agency, such as for FP and section 502 RH borrowers, the County Supervisor will determine whether the property was insured and whether the Agency was named as mortgagee in the insurance policy.
(2) Determine that the borrower has taken such steps as are necessary to protect the interest of the Agency in the security property against further damage. When serious problems arise with respect to protecting the property from further damage, the borrower cannot or will not arrange adequate protection for the property, or when legal action appears to be necessary, the County Supervisor will arrange for emergency protection and immediately refer the case with complete information to the State Director.
(b)
Loss covered by insurance.
(1) If the Agency is listed as mortgagee in the insurance policy, the County Supervisor will collect the amount of the loss and may consent to the borrower using funds to repair or replace damaged or destroyed property or to apply loss proceeds to his loan account or to any prior liens that might exist in the order of their priority.
(2) If the Agency is not listed as mortgagee in the insurance policy, the County Supervisor will contact the borrower to determine whether he has received the loss proceeds. If the borrower has received the loss proceeds but not yet paid for improvements to repair or replace the property, or has not received the loss proceeds the County Supervisor will:
(i) Notify the insurance company in writing of the Agency's interest in the security property and request that the loss proceeds be made payable jointly to the Agency and the borrower.
(ii) Inform the borrower of his responsibility for repairing or replacing the damaged or destroyed property or for authorized disposition of the loss proceeds as outlined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Loss drafts—when loan is secured by a first mortgage.
(1) A loss draft which
in the opinion of the County Supervisor represents a satisfactory adjustment of the loss will be endorsed immediately without recourse and deposited in a supervised bank account to be used in repairing or replacing the damaged building, except:
(i) Where the amount of the loss is $1,000 or less and the borrower will use the funds for repairing or replacing an essential building, the loss draft may be endorsed without recourse and given to the borrower upon satisfactory proof that the repairs or replacements have been made, or upon satisfactory assurance that the work will be performed.
(ii) When (A) the essential buildings are not to be repaired or replaced and other suitable buildings are not to be erected, or (B) a balance remains after all repairs, replacements, and other authorized disbursements have been made, such insurance funds will be applied on prior liens or as an extra payment to the borrower's loan accounts secured by the real estate or disposed of in accordance with the general principles applicable to the use of proceeds from the sale of a part of the security contained in applicable security servicing regulations for the type loan involved.
(iii) An insurance payment for loss or damage to a nonessential building the borrower voluntarily insured will be (A) applied on prior liens, or to current delinquencies to the Agency or as an extra payment on the borrower's loan accounts secured by real estate, (B) disposed of as authorized by the State Director in accordance with the general principles applicable to the use of proceeds from the sale of a part of the security contained in applicable security servicing regulations for the type loan involved, or (C) used for other purposes as authorized by the State Director if the loan is adequately secured and the loan account is current.
(iv) When the indebtedness secured by the insured property has been paid in full or the draft is in payment for loss of property on which the Agency has no claim, a loss draft which includes the Agency as a joint payee may be endorsed without recourse and delivered to the borrower.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Loss drafts—When loan is secured by other than first mortgage.
(1) When the loss draft does not include the interest of a prior mortgagee, it will be processed as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) When the loss draft includes the interest of a prior mortgagee, the County Supervisor is authorized to endorse and process the draft as follows:
(i) When the prior mortgagee will permit the use of such loss funds to repair or replace the damaged building, the draft may be endorsed without recourse upon satisfactory proof that the repairs or replacements have been made or upon satisfactory assurance that the work will be performed.
(ii) When the amount of the draft does not exceed the amount of the indebtedness then secured by the prior mortgage as stated in writing by the holder of the prior mortgage, and the holder of the prior mortgage has agreed in a written statement to the County Supervisor that he will apply such funds as a payment on the borrower's prior mortgage indebtedness, the draft may be endorsed without recourse.
(iii) When the amount of the draft exceeds the amount of the indebtedness then secured by the prior mortgage, as stated in writing by the holder, and he has agreed in writing to pay such indebtedness from the loss funds, the draft will be endorsed without recourse only after all parties named as payees in the draft have signed an agreement to deliver the draft “in escrow” to a bank acceptable to the named parties. The agreement will specify the manner in which the funds will be disbursed by the bank, as escrow agent, to the several mortgagees named in the draft. After the loss funds have been collected by the bank, it will issue cashier's checks in the manner prescribed in the escrow agreement (see exhibit A for suggested form). If this procedure is found to be impractical in an individual instance, the State Director may authorize an alternative method for disbursing the loss funds to protect the Government's financial interest.
(iv) Drafts which have been endorsed by all other payees will be endorsed immediately without recourse. Such drafts or other loss funds will be processed in accordance with the methods
described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Servicing insurance losses under special circumstances
—(1)
Foreclosures and voluntary conveyances.
Losses on properties in process of foreclosure or voluntary conveyance will be handled with the advice of the OGC. If the necessary cooperation of the borrower cannot be obtained, the State Director, with the advice of the OGC, will determine the proper action to be taken. To the extent feasible from a legal and practical standpoint, all loss payments should be received for a damaged or destroyed building and applied on the borrower's real estate indebtedness before title to the property is taken by the Government through foreclosure sale, voluntary conveyance, or otherwise, unless absolute assignment has been made by the borrower to the Government of all loss funds due from the insurance company.
(2)
Subrogation agreements.
When a company claims nonliability to the borrower and subrogation to the rights of the Agency, the County Supervisor will forward a full report of the facts in the case to the State Director. The State Director will upon advice from OGC, instruct the County Supervisor regarding further action to be taken.
(f)
Repairs and replacements.
When any loss payments have been deposited in a supervised bank account, all repairs and replacements done by or under the direction of the borrower, or by contract, will be planned, performed, inspected, and paid for in the same manner as improvements financed with loan funds.
(g)
Completing adjustment.
The borrower must complete the adjustment of the loss with the company or its authorized representatives. The County Supervisor, upon request of the borrower may consult with the borrower regarding the loss adjustment, but will not enter into negotiations with insurance adjusters or company representatives relative to the adjustment or settlement of losses on borrower property, or make any commitments, or sign any forms in connection with the adjustment of the loss. The Agency will not waive any rights which it may have against the company except when the borrower's account or the Agency claim has been paid-in-full.
(1) The County Supervisor will maintain a proper followup on all losses until satisfactory settlement has been made by the company.
(2) Where the County Supervisor has evidence that the adjustment agreed to by the borrower is significantly less than the amount of damage to which the borrower is entitled under the terms of the policy, the loss draft accompanied by a report will be sent to the State Director so that he may reopen the adjustment, if he considers it is in the interest of the Agency to do so.
(3) When it appears evident that the amount of the loss is $1,000 or less, the County Supervisor may rely on estimates of contractors, building supply firms, reliable carpenters, or other evidence rather than personal inspection in determining whether the adjustment is equitable and the Government's interest is protected.
(h)
Reinstatement after loss.
In cases where insurance in the amount of the loss is not reinstated automatically by the provisions of the policy, it will be the responsibility of the County Supervisor to have the borrower reinstate as much of the insurance as may be necessary to fulfill the requirements of the Agency.
(i)
Losses not covered by insurance.
When a loss occurs and insurance is not in force, the County Supervisor will:
(1) Inform the borrower that he has violated the security instrument by not providing insurance coverage and that it is his responsibility to make the needed replacements or repairs.
(2) If the borrower is unable or unwilling to make needed repairs or replacements from his own resources, the County Supervisor will submit complete information to the Agency official authorized to determine whether the Agency will or will not continue with the loan. The County Supervisor's report will include recommendations on the following items:
(i) The advisability and possibility of making a subsequent loan to pay for needed repairs.
(ii) Subordination of the Agency real estate lien to permit the borrower to
obtain funds for needed repairs from another source.
(iii) The possibility of the borrower obtaining funds secured by a junior lien from another source.
(iv) Whether an advance is needed to protect the Government's interest in the property.
(3) If the loan will not be continued with the borrower, it must be serviced in accordance with the applicable Instructions.
(4) If the borrower has improperly disposed of loss proceeds, the County Supervisor will refer the case with complete information and recommendations to the State Director. The State Director will consult the Regional Attorney when necessary and advise the County Supervisor as to appropriate servicing actions.
[41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 50 FR 39638, Sept. 30, 1985; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.6
Failure of borrower to provide insurance.
When a borrower fails to provide and maintain property insurance which meets the requirements set forth in § 1806.2 of this subpart, every effort will be made to have the borrower provide coverage acceptable to the Agency. It will be emphasized that under the terms of the security instrument, it is the borrower's responsibility to provide and maintain proper insurance coverage. Existing borrowers required to escrow will be notified by letter at least 90 days prior to initiating escrowing for insurance. Failure to provide insurance is a nonmonetary default and will be a consideration in determining if the loan is to be continued. For FP or SFH borrowers
not
required to escrow, the County Supervisor will obtain insurance coverage and voucher for the insurance premium only in cases where: An unusual and severe hazard, such as recurring fires or unstable ground conditions, exists, or, an SFH borrower on a moratorium is unable to pay the insurance premium and the borrower requests that the Agency pay the premium. For SFH borrowers required to escrow, force placed insurance will be obtained if the borrower fails to provide acceptable insurance. Borrowers being phased into escrow will be given at least 30 days to obtain coverage, after which force placed insurance will be obtained. If the escrow account contains insufficient funds to pay the insurance when due, the County Supervisor will request the borrower to pay an amount equal to the difference between the premium due and the escrow balance in a lump sum within 30 days after notification. If the borrower fails to remit the amount requested, the amount will be advanced and charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. The amortization period for an advance due to an escrow shortage will be one year. Insurance coverage shall be provided continuously unless the property is acquired by the Agency. The cost of obtaining such a policy shall be advanced and charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. Amortization of the charge will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550. If a borrower indebted for other than an FP or SFH loan fails to provide acceptable insurance, the Servicing Official will take the following action:
(a)
Expired policies.
(1) The County Supervisor will request the insurance agency or broker who issued the expired policy to issue a new policy which is acceptable to the Agency.
(i) The new policy will be effective as of the date of the County Supervisor's contact with the insurance agency or broker or as soon thereafter as possible, and will be for a term of one year. If State insurance regulations require a longer term, the State Director will issue a State Instruction authorizing County Supervisors to obtain policies for the minimum period permitted by State insurance regulations.
(ii) The Agency will be shown in the loss payable clause and in the mortgage clause in the proper order of priority.
(iii) Insurance coverage on each building usually will be the same as shown on the expired policy if it meets or exceeds Agency requirements. If the coverage shown on the expired policy does not meet Agency requirements, proper coverage will be obtained.
(iv) The County Supervisor will, if possible, have an automatic renewal provision included in the policy.
(v) If the borrower refuses to pay the insurance premium with his own funds or arrange with the agent for subsequent payment by premium not or otherwise, the County Supervisor will pay the amount of the insurance premium in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A. The amount of the premium payment will be charged to the borrower's Agency account with the highest lien priority as a recoverable cost item.
(vi) If the insurance agency or broker who issued the expired policy refuses to issue a new policy, the County Supervisor will have the borrower designate in writing another insurance agency or broker from whom the insurance can be obtained.
(vii) After the County Supervisor and the borrower exhaust all efforts to obtain acceptable insurance, the County Supervisor will request advice from the State Office as to companies issuing acceptable policies in the State and from which the borrower might be able to obtain an acceptable policy. If the borrower still cannot obtain an acceptable policy from any such company, and the determination has been made to continue with the borrower, the County Supervisor will temporarily accept from the borrower the available insurance policy the Agency determines most nearly conforms to the requirements of § 1806.2 of this subpart.
(A) In making this determination, the following deficiencies become more objectionable in the order from (
1
) to (
5
) paragraphs (a)(1)(vii)(A) of this section:
(
1
) A policy written for an initial term of less than one year.
(
2
) A policy which will insure the most essential buildings but will not cover all essential buildings.
(
3
) A policy which covers major risks such as fire and lightning, but does not include one or more of the other risks specified in § 1806.2(8).
(
4
) A policy for a lesser amount of insurance than is required by § 1806.3.
(
5
) A policy that is issued by a company which is not licensed to do business in the State or otherwise does not meet the requirements of § 1806.3.
(B) Whenever adequate insurance becomes available, the County Supervisor will require the borrower to deliver to the County Office an acceptable insurance policy. The temporary policy will be returned to the borrower for cancellation after all losses claimed under the policy have been settled.
(C) If the borrower is unable to furnish a property insurance policy of any kind, he is still responsible for the debt in the event of loss.
(D) If the County Supervisor accepts an inadequate insurance policy under these conditions or the borrower fails to furnish any insurance policy, the County Supervisor will include in his report to the State Director an explanation of the efforts he and the borrower made to obtain acceptable insurance and his justification for accepting an inadequate policy, or for not obtaining an insurance policy of any kind.
(b)
Insurance canceled for reasons other than nonpayment of insurance premium.
(1) The County Supervisor, immediately upon receipt of a 10-day notice of cancellation for a policy, will urge the borrower to provide acceptable insurance.
(2) If the borrower fails to provide acceptable insurance before the cancellation is effective, the County Supervisor will contact the insurance agency or broker who issued the insurance policy to determine the reasons for cancellation and, if possible, have the policy reinstated.
(3) If the insurance company will not reinstate the policy, the County Supervisor will attempt to obtain an acceptable insurance policy from another agency or broker in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Insurance canceled for nonpayment of premium.
(1) The County Supervisor, immediately upon receiving a 10-day cancellation notice for a policy, will, if possible, contact the borrower in an effort to have him pay the insurance premium from his own funds or arrange with the agent for subsequent payment by premium note, or otherwise.
(2) If the borrower does not pay or arrange to pay the premium before the policy cancellation is effective, the County Supervisor will, before the cancellation becomes effective, notify the insurance company or broker by certified mail (return receipt requested), that the Agency as mortgagee (or
trustee) will pay the premium for one year to continue the policy in effect for that period. The County Supervisor will, in accordance with RD Instruction 2024-A, pay the amount of the premium for a period of one year. The amount of the premium will be charged to the borrower's loan account as a recoverable cost item.
(3) If a property insurance mortgage clause other than Form RD 426-2 is used in connection with the policy and the insurance company or broker refuses to accept payment from the Agency in this manner to reinstate or continue the policy, the County Supervisor will attempt to obtain an acceptable insurance policy from another insurance company or broker in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 42 U.S.C. 2942; 5 U.S.C. 301; Sec. 10 Pub. L. 93-357, 88 Stat. 392; delegation of authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70; delegation of authority by Director OEO 29 FR 14764, 33 FR 9850)
[41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 33263, June 30, 1977; 43 FR 34430, Aug. 4, 1978; 50 FR 39638, Sept. 30, 1985; 56 FR 6945, Feb. 21, 1991; 57 FR 36590, Aug. 14, 1992; 67 FR 78326, Dec. 24, 2002; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
Pt. 1806, Subpt. A, Exh. A

# Exhibit A to Subpart A of Part 1806—Escrow Agreement Real Property Insurance
Date
(Name of bank)
(City or town)
(State)
Gentlemen: Attached is Draft No. ______, for $______, issued by the ____________ Insurance Company in payment of ______ loss which damage the buildings on the farm of __________________, of ______________ County, State of ______________.
This draft has been endorsed by the undersigned payees who request that you collect these funds and issue cashier's checks to the following payees for the following amounts:
________________, First Mortgage $______
________________, Second Mortgage $______
________________, Third Mortgage $______
The balance only, if any, will be paid to ________________, the owner of the property.
First Mortgagee
Second Mortgagee
Third Mortgagee
Owner

# Subpart B—National Flood Insurance

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 40 U.S.C. 442; 42 U.S.C. 2942; 5 U.S.C. 301; delegation of authority by the Sec. of Agri., 38 FR 14944 (7 CFR 2.23); delegation of authority by the Asst. Sec. for Rural Development, 38 FR 14944, 14952 (7 CFR 2.70).

# Source:
39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1806.21
General.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart prescribes the policies and procedures to be followed in implementing the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as amended by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The provisions of these Acts are applicable to Rural Development and Farm Service Agency, herein referred to as the “Agency” authorities permitting financing of buildings of any type now located in or to be located in special flood or mudslide prone areas as designated by the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and any machinery, equipment, fixtures and furnishings contained or to be contained therein. This subpart does not apply to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs and to Rural Rental Housing, Rural Cooperative Housing, or Farm Labor Housing programs of the Rural Housing Service.
(b)
Background.
The Congress has found that annual losses throughout the nation caused by floods and mudslides are increasing at an alarming rate, largely as a result of the accelerated development and concentration of populations in areas subject to floods and mudslides. The availability of Federal funds in the form of loans, grants, guarantees, insurance and other forms of financial assistance are often determining factors in the utilization of land and the location and construction of industrial, commercial and residential facilities.
(c)
Scope.
The National Flood Insurance Program (the program) was authorized and created because the private insurance industry has been unable to provide insurance coverage at
reasonable prices for such natural disasters as floods and mudslides. Subsidized and affordable insurance has been made available under the Act through an agreement between the Federal Insurance Administration and the National Flood Insurers Association.
[39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 69 FR 69103, Nov. 26, 2004; 72 FR 64121, Nov. 15, 2007; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.22
Areas of responsibility.
(a)
Federal Insurance Administration
(
FIA
). (1) Identify and publish information with respect to all areas in the country which are subject to floods and mudslides and designate those areas on Flood Hazard Boundary maps.
(2) Notify affected communities of their designations and encourage them to adopt and enforce land use and other control measures and to adopt ordinances or laws which will regulate and control construction in areas designated as having special flood or mudslide hazards.
(3) Make flood insurance available at reasonable rates in sufficient amounts, within the statutory limits, to adequately protect owners against loss to their buildings and contents when those buildings are located in or will be located in designated special flood and mudslide prone areas in communities participating in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(b)
The Agency.
The State Director, after being notified by the National Office or FIA of designated flood or mudslide hazard areas and receiving flood hazard boundary maps identifying the hazard areas, FIA insurance rate charts, or other information concerning the program, will inform the appropriate County Supervisors and provide them the maps, rate charts, and other relevant information concerning the program in areas they serve. Permanent records indicating the date a community was notified as containing identified flood hazard areas, communities participating in the program, and communities eligible to participate but not participating in the program will be maintained in the State Office. County Supervisors will notify, in writing, those borrowers whose insurable buildings are located in designated flood or mudslide hazard areas of the availability of national flood insurance and encourage them to obtain flood insurance to protect their and the Government's financial interest.
(c)
Community.
Communities are required to participate in the National Flood Insurance Program within 1 year after notification of its formal identification as a community containing one or more special flood and mudslide prone areas, or by July 1, 1975, whichever is later, or be denied Federal financial assistance or Federally-related financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes in such areas. Communities wishing to qualify for the program may submit a completed application to: Administrator, Federal Insurance Administration, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410.
(d)
Lender.
The lender must determine whether real property is located in an area identified as having special flood or mudslide hazards and cannot discharge the responsibility merely by obtaining a self-certification from the applicant that the property is not located in an area having special flood hazards.
[39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.23
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Financial assistance
means any form of direct, insured or guaranteed loan, including reamortization and assumption on new terms of any loan, any form of grant, or other form of direct or indirect assistance extended by the Agency.
(b)
Financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes
means any form of Federal financial assistance which is intended in whole or in part for the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, or substantial improvement of any building and for any machinery, equipment, fixtures and furnishings contained or to be contained in such buildings.
(c)
Community means
any state or political subdivision thereof, such as county, parish, township, city or other
local government which has zoning and building code jurisdiction over a particular area having special flood hazards.
(d)
Eligible community
means a community in which the Administrator of FIA has authorized the sale of flood insurance under the program.
(e)
Designated special flood
or
mudslide prone
area means those areas in a community subject to flood or mudslide which have been identified by flood hazard boundary maps or those areas not identified by maps but where, due to emergency, the FIA Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance.
(f)
Flood
means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of streams, rivers, or other inland water, the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels, or abnormally high tidal water or rising coastal waters resulting from severe storms, hurricanes, or tidal waves resulting from volcano eruptions or earthquakes.
(g)
Mudslide
or
mudflow
means a major occurrence involving the appearance of a large river or flow of “liquid mud” down a hillside, usually as a result of earlier brushfires followed by heavy rains over a widespread area.
(h)
Flood insurance
means insurance coverage for floods and/or mudslides under the program or otherwise acceptable to FIA.
(i)
Building
means any walled and roofed structure, other than a gas or liquid tank, that is principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site. Residential and most types of industrial, commercial, and agricultural buildings, such as lumber sheds, machinery storage sheds, grain storage bins, and silos, are included in this definition.
(j)
Substantial improvement
means any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the actual cash value of the structure either before the improvement is started or, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
[39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.24
Eligibility.
In addition to an applicant meeting the requirements for the type of financial assistance requested, the following requirements for eligibility of applicants for financial assistance for acquisition and construction purposes in designated special flood and mudslide prone areas must be met:
(a) If flood insurance is available, to be eligible after March 1, 1974, the applicant must have purchased a flood insurance policy at the time the loan or grant is closed.
(b) Applicants will not receive financial assistance in those communities that have been notified as having special flood and mudslide prone areas and where flood insurance is not available within 1 year after such notification or by July 1, 1975, whichever is later.
§ 1806.25
Conditions.
The Agency financial assistance may be extended to eligible applicants meeting the eligibility requirements of § 1806.24 of this subpart, provided the following conditions are also met:
(a)
Dwelling and multi-unit housing facilities.
(1) If the financial assistance is to buy a dwelling or multi-unit housing facility:
(i) The first floor elevation of the habitable space of the dwelling or housing unit must be above the 100-year flood level.
(ii) The housing must be served by public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems that are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, or have an onsite water supply system and waste disposal system located so as to avoid impairment of such systems and contamination from the waste disposal system to the water supply system from flooding.
(2) If the financial assistance is to build or provide substantial improvement, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be met and all construction must meet requirements of the applicable development standards, and:
(i) A building permit must be issued by the appropriate governing officials having jurisdiction in the area and compliance must be had with the zoning code or other established legal requirements of the area for reducing or eliminating flood or mudslide damage.
(ii) The structure must be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
(iii) Construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood damage must be used.
(iv) Construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage must be followed.
(3) If the financial assistance is to make minor repairs, the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) and (2) (i), (ii) and (iii) of this section must be met or the building must have existed on the site prior to the date the area was identified as having special flood or mudslide hazards and the loan approval official must determine that the dwelling is suitable as a residence.
(4) When applications for financial assistance are received in areas identified as having special flood and mudslide hazards, the loan approval official will consider the expected severity and frequency of floods and mudslides in determining whether any housing loans should be made in the area. He should be sure, if loans are made, that the objectives of the loans can be accomplished and the Government's financial interest will be adequately protected.
(b)
Nonresidential buildings.
Construction plans and specifications for new buildings or improvements to existing buildings must comply with flood plain area management or control laws, regulations or ordinances.
(c)
Flood insurance coverage.
(1) Any property on which flood insurance is required must be covered by such insurance during its anticipated economic and useful life in an amount at least equal to its development or replacement cost (except estimated land cost), or to the maximum limit of coverage made available with respect to the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Program, whichever is less. However, if the financial assistance provided is in the form of a loan, the amount of flood insurance required need not exceed the outstanding principal balance of the loan and need not be required beyond the term of the loan.
(2) The contents of a building must be insured separately from a building but coverage cannot be written on the contents of a three-walled machinery shed or similar type open building.
(3) Flood insurance shall not be required on any state owned property that is covered under an adequate state policy of self-insurance satisfactory to the Secretary of HUD, who will publish a list of states with such policies.
(4) It will be emphasized that under the terms of the security instrument it is the borrower's responsibility to provide and maintain proper flood insurance coverage. If flood insurance is not provided on any property for which it is required, the flood insurance premium will be paid to protect the Government's security interest. For borrowers required to escrow for flood insurance, payment of the premium will be handled in accordance with § 1806.28 of this subpart. Existing borrowers required to escrow will be notified by letter at least 90 days prior to initiating escrowing for flood insurance. If the Agency pays the flood insurance premium for borrowers not required to escrow, the cost will be charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. Failure to provide flood insurance is a nonmonetary default and will be a consideration in determining if the loan is to be continued.
[39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987; 56 FR 6945, Feb. 21, 1991; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1806.26
Coverage and premium rates.
Exhibit A sets forth limits of coverage and chargeable premium rates under the program. Insurance policies under the program can be obtained from any licensed property insurance agent or broker serving the eligible community or from the National Flood Insurers Association Serving Company (Serving Company) for the state. The Servicing Company for each state is shown in exhibit B.
§ 1806.27
Acceptable policies and servicing.
The general acceptance of policies and servicing of insurance will be performed in accordance with Subpart A of this part. Any unusual situations that may arise with respect to obtaining or servicing flood insurance should be referred to the State Director. The State Director will attempt to resolve any problems concerning the flood insurance program in the state with the Servicing Company. Flood hazard boundary maps, insurance rate tables, the insurability of specific structures, and other information concerning the program may be obtained from the Servicing Company. Difficulties in administering the program which the State Director is unable to resolve should be referred to the National Office for Assistance.
§ 1806.28
Borrowers required to escrow.
For borrowers required to use escrow accounts for the payment of real estate taxes and insurance, the flood insurance premium will be paid when due from funds contained in the escrow account. If the escrow account contains insufficient funds to pay the flood insurance premium when due, the County Supervisor will request the borrower to pay an amount equal to the difference between the premium due and the escrow balance in a lump sum within 30 days after notification. If the borrower fails to remit the amount requested, the amount will be advanced and charged to the borrower's account as a recoverable cost. The amortization period for an advance due to an escrow shortage will be one year. Amortization of the charge will be handled in accordance with7 CFR part 3550. When a borrower has more than one loan secured by the real estate on which the flood insurance premium is being paid, the advance will be charged to the initial or lowest numbered loan.
[56 FR 6946, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 78326, Dec. 24, 2002]
Pt. 1806, Subpt. B, Exh. A

# Exhibit A to Subpart B of Part 1806—Coverage and Premium Rates
1. The following table sets forth the limits of coverage available under the program:
Type of structure
Structure coverage
Subsidized
Total
3
Contents of coverage
4
Subsidized
Total
3
Single family, residential
1
$35,000
$70,000
$10,000
$20,000
All other, residential
1
100,000
200,000
10,000
20,000
All nonresidential
2
100,000
200,000
100,000
200,000
1
For Alaska, Hawaii, and the Virgin Islands, the following limits of coverage apply: Structure coverage for one family residential is $50,000 subsidized and $100,000 total coverage, and structure coverage for other residential is $150,000 subsidized and $300,000 total coverage.
2
Includes hotels and motels with normal occupancy of less than 6 months.
3
Coverage in amounts exceeding the subsidized limits is available only after an actuarial cost has been established and flood insurance rate may be issued.
4
Contents of a building must be insured separately from the building. However, coverage is applicable to contents only while in an enclosed building. Therefore, coverage cannot be written on the contents of a three-walled machinery shed or a similar type open building.
2. The following table sets forth the applicable premium rates:
Type of structure
Rates per $100 of coverage (subsidized only)
Structures
Contents
All residential
1
$0.25
$0.35
All nonresidential
1
.40
.75
1
Actuarial (nonsubsidized) rates are applicable to any structure, the construction or substantial improvement of which started after Dec. 31, 1974, or the date on which the initial rate map was issued, whichever is later, in identified areas having special flood or mudslide hazards.
Pt. 1806, Subpt. B, Exh. B

# Exhibit B to Subpart B of Part 1806—Servicing Company
The servicing company office to be contacted for information relative to the availability of coverage under the national flood insurance program, flood hazard boundary maps, insurance rate tables, and related material.
E.D.S. Federal Corporation, National Flood Insurance, P.O. Box 34294, Bethesda, Md. 20034, phone toll-free 800-638-6620; commercial phone 301-898-5900.
(7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 42 U.S.C. 2942; 5 U.S.C. 301; delegation of authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70)
[43 FR 18538, May 1, 1978]
PARTS 1807-1809 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1810

# PART 1810—INTEREST RATES, TERMS, CONDITIONS, AND APPROVAL AUTHORITY

# Subpart A—Interest Rates, Amortization, Guarantee Fee, Annual Charge, and Fixed Period
Sec.
1810.1
Information concerning interest rates, amortization, guarantee fee, annual charge, and fixed period.
1810.2
Adjustment of interest rates for certain loans involving use of or construction on prime or unique farmland.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989; 14 U.S.C. 1480; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70.

# Subpart A—Interest Rates, Amortization, Guarantee Fee, Annual Charge, and Fixed Period
§ 1810.1
Information concerning interest rates, amortization, guarantee fee, annual charge, and fixed period.
(a) Tables for computing the interest rates (including the annual charge rates and length of fixed period for initial repurchase agreement for insured loans), tables for use in determining the amounts of interest on loans at different rates, tables providing factors in amortizing loans, and the guarantee fee for guaranteed loans, may be obtained from any County, District, or State Office of the Agency (Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Housing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture) or from its National Office at 14th and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250.
(b) In the event that the tables provided for in paragraph (a) of this section do not furnish adequate information, questions should be directed to the Assistant Administrator, Finance Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1520 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103.
[56 FR 11503, Mar. 19, 1991, as amended at 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1810.2
Adjustment of interest rates for certain loans involving use of or construction on prime or unique farmland.
(a) For essential community facility loans, insured farm ownership loans for recreation or non-farm enterprises, insured farm operating loans for recreation enterprises, soil and water loans for recreation purposes, individual recreation loans, and insured business and industry loans, the interest rate will be increased by two per centum per annum if the project being financed will involve the use of, or construction on, prime or unique farmland. Prime or unique farmland is as defined in § 657.5 (a) and (b) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (1980).
(b) The two per centum interest rate increase will not apply if the applicant/borrower is a public body or Indian tribe and has demonstrated to the Agency that there are no suitable options for locating the proposed essential community facility project on land that is not prime or unique farmland.
(c) For each essential community facility loan and insured business and industry loan the District Director, after consultation with the Soil Conservation Service (SCS), will determine whether the proposed project will involve the use of, or construction on, prime or unique farmland. For each insured farm ownership loan for a recreation or non-farm enterprise, insured farm operating loan for a recreation enterprise, soil and water loan for a recreational purpose, or individual recreation loan, the County Supervisor, after consultation with SCS, will determine whether the proposed project will involve the use of, or construction on, prime or unique farmland. The determination will be documented by the Agency and made a part of the official case file.
[46 FR 47763, Sept. 30, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11503, Mar. 19, 1991; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
Subpart B [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER B—LOANS AND GRANTS PRIMARILY FOR REAL ESTATE PURPOSES
Pt. 1822

# PART 1822—RURAL HOUSING LOANS AND GRANTS
Subparts A-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations
Sec.
1822.261
General.
1822.262
Objective.
1822.263
Definitions.
1822.264
Eligibility requirements.
1822.265
Loan purposes.
1822.266
Limitations.
1822.267
Special conditions.
1822.268
Rates, terms, and source of funds.
1822.269
Security.
1822.270
Technical, legal, and other services.
1822.271
Processing applications.
1822.272
Approval or disapproval of a loan.
1822.273
Actions subsequent to loan approval.
1822.274
Loan closing.
1822.275
Actions after sites are developed.
1822.276
Subsequent RHS loans.
1822.277
Complaints regarding discrimination in opportunity to buy developed sites.
1822.278
Special requirements for RHS section 523 loans (loans to organizations providing sites for self-help housing).
1822.279
Loan supervision and servicing.
Exhibits A-B to Subpart G of Part 1822 [Reserved]
Exhibit C to Subpart G of Part 1822—Subordination by the Government for Use with Rural Housing Site Loans

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70.
Subparts A-F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 42 U.S.C. 1480.

# Source:
35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1822.261
General.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures and delegates authority for making Rural Housing Site (RHS) loans under sections 523 and 524 of the Housing Act of 1949. Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized Rural Development (RD) employees, members of their families, known close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of subpart D of part 1900 of this chapter. Applicants for this assistance are required to identify any known relationship or association with an RD employee. Section 523 loans are direct loans for the purchase and development of building sites for housing to be built by the self-help method; they have additional requirements which are contained in § 1822.278.
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.262
Objective.
The basic objective of RHS loans is to assist public or private nonprofit organizations interested in providing sites for housing, to acquire and develop land in rural areas. This land will be subdivided into adequate building sites and sold on a nonprofit basis to (a) families eligible for low and moderate income section 502 Rural Housing (RH) loans, including self-help housing; (b) cooperative Rural Cooperative Housing (RCH) applicants and broadly based nonprofit Rural Rental Housing (RRH) applicants; and (c) applicants eligible for Housing and Urban Development (HUD) sections 235 and 236 insured mortgages.
§ 1822.263
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
(a) A
private nonprofit organization
is a corporation which: is owned and controlled by private persons; is organized and operated for purposes other than making gains or profits for the corporation or members; and, is legally precluded from distributing to its members any gains or profits.
(b) A
public nonprofit organization
is a nonprofit corporation other than a private nonprofit corporation, including a municipal corporation or other corporate agency of a State or local government.
(c)
Rural area
is open country or rural places as defined in 7 CFR part 3550, subpart A.
(d)
Development cost
means the cost of purchasing and developing the sites including engineering and legal fees, streets, roads, utilities, minimum essential administrative costs, necessary equipment and estimated interest which the borrower cannot pay from other sources.
(e)
RHS section 523 loan
means a loan to an organization which will provide sites for housing to be built by the self-help method.
(f)
RHS section 524 loan
means a loan to an organization which will provide sites for housing to be built with no limitation as to the method of construction that will be used.
(g)
OGC
means the Office of the General Counsel, including the regional attorney or attorney in charge serving the State in which the RHS project is located.
[35 FR 10687, July 1, 1970, as amended at 40 FR 52837, Nov. 13, 1975; 46 FR 61989, Dec. 21, 1981; 67 FR 78326, Dec. 24, 2003]
§ 1822.264
Eligibility requirements.
(a)
Eligibility of applicant.
To be eligible for an RHS loan, the applicant must be a private or public nonprofit organization as defined in § 1822.263 (a) or (b) which is authorized to provide housing sites on a nonprofit basis.
(1) If it is a private nonprofit organization as defined in § 1822.263(a), it should also:
(i) Have a membership of at least 10 community leaders.
(ii) Plan to adopt, if it is being newly organized, articles of incorporation and bylaws that generally conform to model articles and bylaws provided by the State director which will be consistent with State law and with changes appropriate to the purposes and powers of an eligible applicant under this subpart.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Authorized representative of applicant.
RHS will deal only with the applicant or bona fide representative or the applicant or the representative's technical advisors. An authorized representative of the applicant must have no pecuniary interest in the award of the engineering, architectural or construction contracts, necessary equipment, or the purchase or development of the land.
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.265
Loan purposes.
RHS loans may be made to qualified applicants:
(a) For the purchase and development of adequate sites, including the construction of essential access roads, streets, utility lines, and necessary equipment which will become a permanent part of the development. If public water and waste disposal facilities are not available and cannot reasonably be provided on a community basis with other financing, including Water and Waste Disposal Association loans, funds may be included for this purpose.
(b) For the payment of necessary engineering fees, legal fees, and closing costs.
(c) For the payment of actual cash cost of incidental administrative expenses such as postage, telephone, advertising, and temporary secretarial help, if funds to pay these expenses are not otherwise available. The estimated cost of these items should be identified and shown in the budget.
(d) To provide for needed landscaping, planting, seeding, or sodding, or other necessary facilities related to buildings such as walks, parking areas, and driveways.
(e) When legally required by proper local, county, and State Governmental bodies as a condition for subdivision approval, RHS loan funds may be used to provide common areas playgrounds and tot lots, provided such facilities are dedicated to, and maintained by, a public body.
(42 U.S.C. 1480; delegation of authority by the Sec. of Agri., 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Asst. Sec. for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70)
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 43 FR 24264, June 5, 1978; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.266
Limitations.
(a)
Loan limits.
No RHS loan(s) will be made to any applicant which will result in the applicant's owning an unpaid principal balance of more than
$100,000 on such loan(s) unless prior authorization for a larger loan is obtained from the national office. No such loan will exceed the development cost as defined in § 1822.263(d), or the value of the property as improved with the loan. These limitations also apply to cases in which the same persons hold a majority of the membership interests or constitute a majority of the directors of two or more applicants.
(b)
Limitations of use of loan funds.
Loans will not be made for:
(1) The purchase of land in excess of the immediate and identified needs in the locality.
(2) The purchase of land from a member of an applicant-organization, or from another organization in which any member of the applicant-organization has an interest, without prior consent of the national office.
(3) Refinancing of debts, except in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(4) Payment of any fee, charge, or commission to any broker, negotiator, or other person for the referral of a prospective applicant or solicitation of a loan.
(5) Payment of any fee, salary, commission, profit, or compensation to an applicant, or to any officer, director, trustee, stockholder, member or agent of an applicant, except as provided in § 1822.265(b). No contract or agreement for services to be paid for with loan funds should be executed by the applicant without prior approval by the State director.
(c)
Sale of developed sites.
The sites developed with a section 524 loan must be for housing low- and moderate-income families and may be sold to families, nonprofit organizations, public agencies, and cooperatives eligible for assistance under any section of title V of the Housing Act of 1949, or under any other law which provides financial assistance. For example, this may include:
(1) Individuals with low and moderate incomes eligible for HUD mortgages.
(2) Individuals with low and moderate incomes eligible for VA guaranteed loans.
(3) Individuals with low or moderate incomes eligible for a loan from any private lender which is authorized by law to provide financial assistance for housing.
(4) Nonprofit organizations funded by Federal, State, or local governments carrying out programs for low- and moderate-income families to obtain housing.
(5) State or local public agencies such as a housing authority or a housing finance development agency carrying out programs for low- and moderate-income families to obtain housing.
(d)
Suitability of sites.
Sites will meet the requirements of the planned use; for example, individual housing or multiple housing or any combination thereof. Building sites must be well located and designed to provide a desirable living environment. Generally a loan will not be made for the development of less than 10 units, but they need not be contiguous.
(e)
Obligations incurred before loan closing.
When an applicant files an application for a loan, the county supervisor will advise the applicant that development work must not be started and obligations for work, materials, or land purchase must not be incurred before the loan is closed. If, nevertheless, the applicant incurs obligations for work, materials, or land purchase before the loan is closed, the State director may authorize the use of loan funds to pay such obligations only when he finds that all the following conditions exist:
(1) The obligations were incurred after the applicant filed a written application for a loan.
(2) The applicant is unable to pay such obligations from its own resources or to obtain credit from other sources, and failure to authorize the use of loan funds to pay such debts would impair the applicant's financial position.
(3) The obligations were incurred for authorized loan purposes.
(4) Contracts, materials, development and any land purchase meet RD standards and requirements.
(5) Payment of the obligations will remove any liens which have attached, and any basis for liens that may attach, to the property on account of
such obligations or such work, materials, or land purchase.
[35 FR 10687, July 1, 1970, as amended at 40 FR 6951, Feb. 18, 1975; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.267
Special conditions.
(a)
Evidence of need.
Loans will be made on the basis of the applicant providing firm information as to the number of sites to be developed and evidence of a need for the proposed building sites in the locality.
(b)
Nondiscrimination.
The borrower will be required to agree not to discriminate or permit discrimination, in accordance with section 3 of the loan resolution form “(‘Rural Housing Site’ Loan to Nonprofit Corporation),” available at all RD offices.
(c)
Supervisory assistance.
Supervision will be provided borrowers to the extent necessary to achieve the objectives of the loan and to protect the interests of the Government. County supervisors will counsel with applicants in selecting locations that will provide essential services and facilities and will result in the development of desirable residential communities.
(d)
Loan resolution.
A Loan Resolution will be adopted by the applicant's Board of Directors or similar governing body. If any provisions are not appropriate to a particular case, proposed substitute language should be submitted to the national office with the recommendations of the State director.
(e)
Development policies.
Development will be planned and performed in accordance with subparts A and C of part 1924 of this chapter.
(f)
Water and waste disposal facilities.
If public water and waste disposal facilities are not available and these facilities will be provided on a community basis with funds included in the RHS loan or with other financing, provision should be made to form an organization with members who will provide continuing maintenance and management of facilities. The cost of the facilities should be considered as a cost of developing the sites and included in the price charged for the lots when they are sold.
(g)
Compliance with local codes and regulations.
Planning and development of sites will comply with all State, county, and local planning and zoning requirements, and will be for housing that will conform with any applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations governing such matters as construction, heating, plumbing, electrical installation, fire prevention, health, and sanitation.
(h)
Optioning of land.
If a loan includes funds to purchase real estate, the applicable provisions of subpart A of part 1943 regarding options will be followed. After the loan is approved, the county supervisor will have Form RD, “Form Letter—Acceptance of Option,” or other appropriate form of acceptance, completed, signed by the applicant, and mailed to the seller.
(i)
Use of and accountability for loan funds.
Supervised bank accounts will not be used except when their requirement is made or authorized by the State director for cases where adequate bonding is not available. If a supervised bank account is used, collateral for deposits of funds will be pledged when the supervised bank account exceeds $100,000. All loan funds and funds from other sources to be used to pay the development costs of the site, as well as proceeds from the sale of any sites, will be deposited in accordance with part 1902, subpart A of this chapter. The county supervisor will see that funds for land purchase are paid to the seller simultaneously with loan closing. After the loan is closed, monthly reports will be provided to Rural Development of all disbursements made and income received by the borrower. Reports for each month will be submitted to the Rural Development county office during the first 10 days of the next month. No expenditures will be made without prior Rural Development consent for items which are not included in the Rural Development approved development cost estimate or for amounts greater than those set forth in such estimate.
(j)
Insurance.
The State director will determine the minimum amounts and types of insurance the applicant will carry.
(1) Suitable workman's compensation insurance will be carried by the applicant for all its employees.
(2) The applicant will be advised of the possibility of incurring liability
and encouraged, or required when appropriate, to obtain liability insurance.
(k)
Bonding.
(1) Approved corporate surety bonds will be required in all cases involving a development contract in excess of $20,000, unless an exception is made by the national office. In other cases, the county supervisor will determine whether a surety bond is required.
(2) The applicant will provide fidelity bond coverage for its officers and employees entrusted with the receipt, custody, and disbursement of its funds and the custody of any other negotiable or readily saleable personal property. The amount of the bond will be at least equal to the maximum amount of such funds including funds in bank accounts, and property that the applicant will have in its possession or control at any one time. If permitted by State law, the United States will be named coobligee in the bond. Form RD, “Position Fidelity Schedule Bond,” may be used if permitted by State law.
(l)
Conditional commitments for construction of homes on developed sites.
Conditional commitments may be issued on sites developed with an RHS section 524 loan to permit homes to be constructed on sites prior to the sale of the site to an eligible purchaser in accordance with the following:
(1) The requirements of 7 CFR 3550.70 must be met and a conditional commitment issued prior to the start of construction of the home.
(2) The conditional commitment must be issued to an RHS borrower who can legally provide the proposed housing and has the experience and training in construction to the extent necessary to assure that the housing will be built or jointly to the RHS loan borrower and a builder who has the legal capacity, training and experience necessary to construct the housing. In all cases the following language will be added under “other conditions” on Form RD 1944-11, “Conditional Commitment”:
(i) “Not withstanding the other provisions of this commitment the sale of completed homes on sites developed with section 524 Rural Housing Site loans will be limited to families eligible for assistance under any section of title V of the Housing Act of 1949 or under any other law which provides financial assistance for housing low- and moderate-income families. The approval of Rural Development will be obtained prior to the sale of each home. The request for approval shall be submitted to the local Rural Development office along with an application for an RH 502 loan or a financial statement from the purchaser and verification of the other credit that is available.”
(ii) The benefits of the nonprofit development of the site(s) must be passed on to the purchaser. This will result in this site being sold for $______ (price to be determined as provided for in (§ 1822.275(b))).
(3) In arriving at the commitment price for the site and the completed home, the value will be based on the present market value of the house only, plus the nonprofit selling price of the lot.
(4) If in order to obtain interim financing for the construction of the homes, the RHS loan borrower requests a subordination by Rural Development on individual lots, the State Director may approve the subordination by completing and executing a subordination in the format of exhibit C of this subpart.
(5) The government's lien on any lot will be released only at the time of sale to an eligible purchaser.
(6) The County Supervisor should provide the necessary supervision to assure that the RHS loan borrower takes the necessary action to assure that all qualified builders in the area are aware of the availability of rural housing sites and are given an equal opportunity to participate in this conditional commitment program. As a minimum, the borrower will be required to submit a signed statement indicating the actions taken including
names and dates of contacts with builders.
(7 U.S.C. 1989; 5 U.S.C. 301; sec. 10, Pub. L. 93-347, 88 Stat. 392; 42 U.S.C. 1480; delegation of authority by the Sec. of Agr., 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Asst. Sec. for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70)
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 41 FR 47460, Oct. 29, 1976; 42 FR 44669, Sept. 6, 1977; 43 FR 24264, June 5, 1978; 44 FR 1702, Jan. 8, 1979; 45 FR 39793, June 12, 1980; 46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981; 46 FR 61989, Dec. 21, 1981; 52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987; 52 FR 19283, May 22, 1987; 67 FR 78326, Dec. 24, 2002; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.268
Rates, terms, and source of funds.
(a)
Interest rate.
Upon request of the applicant, the interest rate charged by Rural Development will be the lower of the interest rates in effect at the time of loan approval or loan closing. If an applicant does not indicate a choice, the loan will be closed at the interest rate in effect at the time of loan approval. Interest rates are specified in exhibit B of RD Instruction 440.1 (available in any RD office) for the type assistance involved.
(b)
Repayment period.
Final payment will be due 2 years after the date of the loan. When necessary to carry out the loan purposes, the national office may authorize extension of maturity dates. As lots are sold before the final due date of the note, the proceeds of the sales will be applied on the account or any prior lien, or, with the prior approval of the national office, used in a manner consistent with the purposes of the loan and the security interest of the Government.
(c)
Source of funds.
Loans under this subpart will be made as insured loans, except that loans under § 1822.278 to develop building sites for sale in connection with self-help projects will be made as direct loans.
[35 FR 10687, July 1, 1970, as amended at 51 FR 6733, Feb. 26, 1986; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.269
Security.
Each loan will be secured by a mortgage on the property purchased or improved with the loan, and a security interest in the funds held by the corporation in trust for the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the required Loan Resolution.
§ 1822.270
Technical, legal, and other services.
(a)
Appraisals.
The property will be appraised by an RD employee authorized to make real estate appraisals. The appraisal will consist of a narrative statement prepared and signed by the authorized employee describing in detail the items considered in arriving at the value of the property. Two values will be established by the appraiser:
(1) The fair market value of the total property “as is”.
(2) The aggregate fair market value of the building sites after development.
(i) In determining the value of the property, the appraiser will consider the value and selling prices of similar building sites in the area. The selling prices of similar sites must be fully documented.
(ii) [Reserved]
(b)
Title clearance and legal services.
For a loan to a public nonprofit organization, title clearance and legal services will be obtained in accordance with instructions from the OGC, observing the provisions of subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter to the extent feasible. For a loan to a private nonprofit organization, the provisions of subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter regarding title clearance and legal services will apply. The applicant will be encouraged to have the same approved closing agent, where practical, perform the title clearance work in connection with the purchase of the land and the sale of the individual sites.
(c)
Contracts for legal services.
On projects requiring more legal services than are customarily required for title clearance alone, the applicant will be required to have a written contract when loan funds will be used for legal services. All such contracts will be subject to review and approval by the State director and therefore should be submitted to the State Director before execution by the applicant. Contracts will provide for the types of service to be performed and the amount of fees to
be paid either in lump sum on the completion of all services or in installments as services are performed.
(d)
Engineering services.
On projects requiring engineering services, a written contract will be required between the engineer and the borrower. All such contracts will be subject to review and approval by the State director and therefore should be submitted to the State Director before execution by the applicant. The form of contract must conform with standard professional practices and describe the types of services to be performed and fees to be paid.
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 51 FR 6733, Feb. 26, 1986; 56 FR 67471, Dec. 31, 1991; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.271
Processing applications.
(a)
Application.
The application will be in the form of a letter to the county supervisor with the following information included in or attached to the letter:
(1) Name and address of applicant.
(2) A copy of, or an accurate citation to, the specific provisions of State law under which the applicant is organized; a copy of the applicant's articles of incorporation, bylaws, and other authorizing documents; the names and addresses of the applicant's members, directors, and officers; and if another organization is a member of the applicant organization its name, address, and principal business.
(3) A current, dated, and signed financial statement showing assets, and liabilities, together with information on the repayment schedule and status of each debt.
(4) Evidence of inability to obtain credit from other sources.
(5) General description of the project.
(i) Location and size of tract or tracts to be bought and/or developed.
(ii) Number and size of individual sites planned together with a detailed plot plan.
(iii) Preliminary engineering plans, if available.
(6) Estimated cost and amount of loan needed.
(7) Explanation of applicant's financial contribution to the project.
(8) A map showing the location of and other supporting information on neighborhood and existing facilities such as distance to shopping area, neighborhood churches, available transportation, drainage, sanitation facilities, water supply available or planned, and access to essential services such as doctors, dentists, and hospitals.
(9) If facilities such as water and sewage systems, paved streets, and utilities are not currently available, information on when and how they will be provided.
(10) Evidence of the need for the proposed sites in the locality by low- and moderate-income families and other qualified applicants that are likely to be able to obtain financing for a home.
(11) Written evidence of any State, county, or local planning, zoning, or other ordinances imposing additional restrictions or requirements upon the proposed sites.
(b)
County supervisor's review and evaluation of applications.
The county supervisor will:
(1) Determine that the applicant meets the eligibility requirements of § 1822.264.
(2) Verify that the information provided is accurate and complete.
(3) Determine that:
(i) The sites will be located in a good residential area and that essential facilities and services will be provided.
(ii) The lots will be reasonable in cost and of a type Rural Development can appropriately finance.
(iii) There is an immediate and ready market for the proposed sites in the planned location.
(iv) The total number of sites planned does not exceed the number of loans the county supervisor can reasonably expect to include in the rural housing program or for which other credit is reasonably assured when the sites are developed.
(v) Proposed subdivisions will comply with the local codes and ordinances and also meet the requirements of subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.
(4) Evaluate the manner in which the applicant plans to conduct its business and financial affairs.
(5) Comment on the background of the members, directors and officials.
(6) If he has questions about the proposal, send the incomplete docket to the State office for advice.
(7) If for any reason the loan cannot be made, inform the applicant.
(c)
Completion of the docket.
If the county supervisor determines that the applicant is eligible and the loan will be sound and proper, he should request the applicant to make any needed revisions. In addition to the items required in the application the docket must include:
(1) A plot plan and detailed preliminary plans and specifications for development of the building sites.
(2) A detailed cost breakdown of the project for such items as land and rights-of-way, utility installations or connections, on-site improvements, engineering and legal services, and estimated interest.
(3) If water and sanitary facilities are not publicly owned, a complete statement as to how they will be provided and details about their ownership and operation.
(4) Satisfactory evidence of review and approval of the proposed development by applicable State and local officials whose approval is required by State or local laws, ordinances, or regulations.
(5) Satisfactory evidence that the appropriate public bodies will accept and maintain all public facilities, including common areas, playgrounds, and tot lots, when dedicated to such bodies.
(d)
Preparation of docket forms
—(1)
Request for obligation of funds and fund analysis.
Form RD 3560-51, “Multiple Family Housing Obligation Fund Analysis” will be completed in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert (FMI).
(2)
County committee certification or recommendation.
County committees will not be used to review RHS loan applications.
(e)
Assembly, review and distribution of complete loan docket items.
When all items required for the complete loan docket have been furnished, they will be examined thoroughly to make sure they are properly and accurately prepared and are complete in all respects, including dates and signatures. The loan docket items will be assembled in the following order and distributed as follows:
Form No.
Name of form or document
Total No. of copies
Signed by borrower
Number for loan docket
Copy for borrower
Application Letter and Attachments
2
1-0
1-C
RD 1910-11
Applicant Certification, Federal Collection Policies for Consumer or Commercial Debts
2
2-O
C
1-O
1-C
Evidence of Legal Authority (copy or citation of specific provisions of State statutory authority)
2
1
1-0
1-C
Proof of Organization (certified copy of Articles of Incorporation)
2
1
1-0
1-C
Certified copy of Bylaws
2
1
1-0
1-C
List of names and addresses of officers, directors and members
2
1
1-0
1-C
Narrative plan and other supporting information
2
1
1-0
1-C
Evidence of Need
Certified Copy of Loan Resolution
1
1
1-0
RD 440-4
Assurance Agreement
2
1
1-0
1-C
RD 400-1
Equal Opportunity Agreement (when applicable)
2
1
1-0
1-C
RD 400-3
Notice to Contractors and Applicants
3
1-C
1-C
RD 400-6
Compliance Statement (when applicable)
3
1-C
1-C
Survey of land given as security, plans specifications, cost estimates, and proposed manner of development
3
1
1-0
1-C
Operating budget (if administrative expenses are to be included in loan)
2
1
1-0
1-C
Appraisal Report with Attachments
1
1-0
Preliminary Title Opinion and a Final Title Opinion or a title insurance binder and a mortgage title insurance policy
Option or copy of deed, purchase contract, or other instruments of ownership
RD 3560-51
Multiple Family Housing Obligation-Fund Analysis
2
2
1
1
1
1
Data input to Finance Office through field office terminals.
(f)
Submission of complete docket.
The complete docket will be sent to the State office together with the District Director's comments and recommendations and a draft for a press release.
(g)
Loan approval authority and State Office action.
The State Director is authorized to approve loans in accordance with this subpart and subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter. As soon as it is evident that a loan will be approved, the State Director will complete exhibit A to subpart C of part 2015 of this chapter. The State Director may redelegate approval authority to qualified State Office employees. When a docket or preliminary application is received in the State Office, the State Director will:
(1) Utilize the services of technicians on his staff and from other agencies in evaluating the application.
(2) Review the applicant's articles of incorporation and bylaws. If they conform to approved forms for the State as provided in § 1822.264(a)(1)(ii), the State director need not obtain a preliminary opinion from the OGC. In all other cases the State director will, and in any case may, submit the docket with any comments or questions to the OGC for a preliminary opinion as to whether the applicant and the proposed loan meet or can meet the requirements of State law and this subpart.
(3) If additional information is needed to adequately evaluate the application, return the loan docket to the District Director with any comments and recommendations for further processing.
(4) If the docket is sufficiently complete to enable the State Director to determine that the applicant is eligible and the loan would be sound and proper, issue a proposed memorandum of approval listing any specific conditions that must be met before loan closing.
(5) If the applicant is not eligible or the loan would not be sound and proper and the deficiencies cannot be corrected, inform the District Director accordingly.
(42 U.S.C. 1480; delegation of authority by the Sec. of Agr., 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Asst. Sec. for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70)
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 41 FR 7487, Feb. 19, 1976; 41 FR 20392, May 18, 1976; 43 FR 24264, June 5, 1978; 44 FR 4435, Jan. 22, 1979; 50 FR 8583, Mar. 4, 1985; 52 FR 19283, May 22, 1987; 54 FR 29330, July 12, 1989; 69103, Nov. 26, 2004; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.272
Approval or disapproval of a loan.
The provisions of 7 CFR part 3560, subpart B will be followed.
[69 FR 69103, Nov. 26, 2004]
§ 1822.273
Actions subsequent to loan approval.
After the loan is approved, actions to be taken will be in accordance with 7 CFR part 3560, subpart B.
[69 FR 69103, Nov. 26, 2004]
§ 1822.274
Loan closing.
(a)
Applicable instructions.
The complete loan docket will be sent to the OGC for loan closing instructions. RHS loans will be closed in accordance with applicable provisions of subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter, and State Instructions which supplement this Instruction, and closing instructions of the OGC, and with the assistance of the approved attorney, representatives of the title insurance company, or local attorney, whichever is appropriate.
(b)
Mortgage.
Unless the OGC determines the Form to be inappropriate, real estate mortgage Form RD 3550-14, “Real Estate Mortgage or Deed of Trust for (state),” will be used for all RHS section 524 loans modified as prescribed by or with the advice of the OGC with respect to the name, address, and other identification of the borrower, the style of execution, and the acknowledgement. Additional paragraphs will be included in the mortgage to read as follows:
The borrower agrees not to discriminate in the sale of the dwelling financed under this mortgage due to a prospective purchaser's race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, marital status, or handicap. The borrower further agrees to comply with all Federal, State, or local laws and ordinances prohibiting discrimination in the sale of housing. The borrower's failure or refusal to comply with this agreement will be a basis for Rural Development to deny future requests for participation in its rural housing programs and activities.
This instrument also secures the obligations and covenants of borrower set forth in Borrower's Loan Resolution of __________ (date), which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
(c)
Promissory note.
Form RD 3560-52, “Promissory Note,” will be used. Instructions for preparation will be in accordance with the FMI and the following:
(1) The total amount to be shown in the note will be the amount of the loan shown on Form RD 3560-51. The note will be dated the date of the loan closing.
(2) The note will be signed in accordance with subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter and the forms manual insert for Form RD 3560-52 (available in RD office).
(3) Payments shall not be deferred.
(d)
Recorded mortgage.
When the real estate mortgage is returned by the recording official, the county supervisor will retain the original in the borrower's case folder. If the original is retained by the recording official for the county records, a conformed copy including the recording data showing the date and place of recordation and book and page number will be prepared and filed in the borrower's case folder. A copy of the mortgage will be delivered to the borrower but will be conformed only if required by State law or if it is the custom of other lenders in the area.
(e)
Date of loan closing.
An RHS loan is considered closed when the mortgage is filed of record.
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 42 FR 4408, Jan. 25, 1977; 50 FR 8584, Mar. 4, 1985; 56 FR 67472, Dec. 31, 1991; 69 FR 69104, Nov. 26, 2004; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.275
Actions after sites are developed.
The building sites will be sold on a nonprofit basis to eligible families or organizations as described in § 1822.266(c).
(a) An option, RD 440-34, “Option to Purchase Real Property,” will be executed. The site will be clearly identified by a land survey.
(b) The sale price of each individual site will not be more than a sufficient amount to pay a proportionate part of the RHS loan and any other actual costs of buying, developing, and selling the building site.
(c) The proceeds from sale of the building sites will be applied on the RHS loan and any prior lien or, with the prior approval of the National Office, used in a manner consistent with the purpose of the loan and the security interest of the Government. The sites will be released from the mortgage in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550, subpart D or otherwise in accordance with prior approval of the National Office.
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 51 FR 4135, Feb. 3, 1986; 67 FR 78326, Dec. 24, 2002; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.276
Subsequent RHS loans.
A subsequent RHS loan is an RHS loan to an applicant indebted for an initial RHS loan. Subsequent RHS loans will be made on the same basis as initial RHS loans.
§ 1822.277
Complaints regarding discrimination in opportunity to buy developed sites.
Any applicant wishing to purchase a site financed by an RHS loan who believes he or she has been discriminated against because of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, handicap, or age, may file a complaint with the County Supervisor or State Director. Any such complaint will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR 3560.2.
[56 FR 67472, Dec. 31, 1991, as amended at 69 FR 69104, Nov. 26, 2004]
§ 1822.278
Special requirements for RHS section 523 loans (loans to organizations providing sites for self-help housing).
Loans to organizations which will provide sites for self-help housing (RHS sec. 523 loans) will be made under the provisions of this subpart with the following exceptions:
(a)
Eligibility.
The applicant must be a nonprofit organization engaged in assisting self-help projects.
(b)
Interest.
The interest rate will be 3 percent per annum on the unpaid principal balance.
(c)
Source of funds.
These will be direct loans made from the self-help fund.
(d)
Evidence of need.
Loans to newly formed organizations will be made on the basis of the applicant's providing firm information as to the number of sites to be developed and the names of eligible bona fide prospective purchasers who are assured of available
home financing. Loans to organizations currently involved in mutual self-help housing projects may be made without submitting a list of the names of prospective site purchasers. There must, however, be definite evidence that enough families are available who are eligible and who will buy the sites when they are developed.
(e)
Multiple advances.
These loans may be disbursed over a period not to exceed 18 months from the date of the first advance.
(f)
Note forms.
Form RD 3560-52, “Multiple Family Housing Promissory Note,” will be used. See § 1822.274 (c).
(g)
Mortgage.
Unless the OGC determines the Form to be inappropriate, real estate mortgage Form RD 3550-14, “Real Estate Mortgage or Deed of Trust for (state),” will be used modified as prescribed by or with the advice of the OGC with respect to the name, address, and other identification of the borrower, the style of execution, and the acknowledgement. Additional paragraphs will be included in the mortgage to read as follows:
The borrower agrees not to discriminate in the sale of the dwelling financed under this mortgage due to a prospective purchaser's race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, marital status, or handicap. The borrower further agrees to comply with all Federal, State, or local laws and ordinances prohibiting discrimination in the sale of housing. The borrower's failure or refusal to comply with this agreement will be a basis for Rural Development to deny future requests for participation in its rural housing programs and activities.
This instrument also secures the obligations and covenants of borrower set forth in Borrower's Loan Resolution of ________ (
date
), which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
[35 FR 16087, July 1, 1970, as amended at 42 FR 4408, Jan. 25, 1977; 50 FR 8584, Mar. 4, 1985; 56 FR 67472, Dec. 31, 1991; 69 FR 69104, Nov. 26, 2004; 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1822.279
Loan supervision and servicing.
Loan supervision and loan servicing will be provided according to 7 CFR part 3560.
[69 FR 69104, Nov. 26, 2004]
Exhibits A-B to Subpart G to Part 1822 [Reserved]
Pt. 1822, Subpt. G, Exh. C

# Exhibit C to Subpart G of Part 1822—Subordination by the Government for Use With Rural Housing Site Loans
Whereas, The United States of America acting through the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 (hereinafter called the “Government”) is the holder of the following-described instrument(s) executed by
of
County, State of
(hereinafter called the “Borrower”)
Title of instrument
Date of instrument
Date filed
Office filed
Book No.
Page No.
And whereas, ________________ (hereinafter called the “Lender”) has agreed to provide a loan to the borrower or to a builder designated by the borrower to construct a home on the property described in this instrument.
Now Therefore, in consideration of the Lender's agreement to make such loan to the borrower, the Government hereby consents to the Borrower obtaining said loan from the lender, and agrees to and hereby subordinates in favor of the Lender and his successors and assigns its liens or security interests created or evidenced by the above-described instrument(s) insomuch as they cover the following described property:
Except That, The Government shall retain a first lien or security interest in the above-described property in an amount of $______. Such first lien will be released only when satisfactory evidence is provided indicating that the lot with completed home is being sold to a family eligible for assistance under any section of Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 or under any other law which provides financial assistance for housing low- and moderate-income families and that the benefits of the nonprofit development of the site are being passed on to the eligible purchaser and that the amount of that first lien is paid on the Borrower's Rural Housing Site Loan debt to the Government.
This subordination is limited to the amount actually loaned by the Lender to the Borrower for the foregoing purpose, but shall not exceed $______.
Only the above described property is affected by this subordination. This subordination shall not otherwise affect or modify the obligations secured by the aforesaid lien instrument(s), and the said obligations shall continue in force and effect until fully paid, satisfied, and discharged.
No member of Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this agreement or to any benefit that may arise thereupon.
In Witness Whereof, The United States of America has caused these presents to be signed on the ________ day of ________, 19—, pursuant to delegated authority published in 7 CFR, Part 1800.
Witness:
United States of America
__________________
By: __________________
__________________
Title: ________________
Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(42 U.S.C. 1480; delegation of authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70)
[41 FR 47460, Oct. 29, 1976]
PART 1823 [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTERS C-D [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER E—ACCOUNT SERVICING
PARTS 1863-1866 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER F—SECURITY SERVICING AND LIQUIDATIONS
PART 1872 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER G—MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
PARTS 1890-1899 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER H—PROGRAM REGULATIONS
Pt. 1900

# PART 1900—GENERAL

# Subpart A—Delegations of Authority
Sec.
1900.1
General.
1900.2
National office staff and state directors.
1900.3
State, district, and county office employees.
1900.4
Ratification.
1900.5
Assignment of cases.
1900.6
Chair, Loan Resolution Task Force.
1900.7
Effect on other regulations.

# Subpart B—Adverse Decisions and Administrative Appeals
1900.51
Definitions.
1900.52
General.
1900.53
Applicability.
1900.54
Effect on assistance pending appeal.
1900.55
Adverse action procedures.
1900.56
Non-appealable decisions.
1900.57
[Reserved]
Exhibit A to Subpart B of Part 1900 [Reserved]
Exhibit B-1 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lender, Holders and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions Where the Decision Is Appealable
Exhibit B-2 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders and Holders and Borrowers of Unfavorable Decision Reached at the Meeting
Exhibit B-3 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lender, Holders and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions Where the Decision Involves an Appraisal (Not To Be Used in Cases Involving Farmer Program Primary Loan Servicing Actions)
Exhibit B-4 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders and Holders and Borrowers of Unfavorable Decision Reached After State Director Review of an Appraisal (Not To Be Used in Cases Involving Farmer Program Primary Loan Servicing Actions)
Exhibit C to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders, Holders, and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions When Part or All of the Decision Is Not Appealable [Not Used in Connection With Decisions Related to Nonprogram Applicants, Borrowers, or Property]
Exhibit D to Subpart B of Part 1900—Hearings/Review Officer Designations

# Subpart C—Applicability of Federal Law
1900.101
General
1900.102
Applicable law.

# Subpart D—Processing and Servicing Rural Development Assistance to Employees, Relatives, and Associates
1900.151
General.
1900.152
Definitions.
1900.153
Identifying and reporting an employee relationship.
1900.154
Determining the need for special handling.
1900.155
Designating the processing/servicing official.
1900.156
Special handling-processing.
1900.157-1900.200
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 7 U.S.C. 6991, et. seq.; 42 U.S.C. 1480; Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.).

# Subpart A—Delegations of Authority
§ 1900.1
General.
The authorities contained in this subpart apply to all assets, functions, and programs now or hereafter administered or serviced by the Rural Development, including but not limited to those relating to indebtedness, security, and other assets obtained or contracted through the Secretary of Agriculture, Resettlement Administration, Farm Security Administration, or Emergency Crop and Feed Loan Offices of the Farm Credit Administration, the Soil Conservation Service in connection with water conservation and utilization projects; the Puerto Rico Hurricane Relief Commission and successor agencies in connection with Puerto Rico Hurricane relief loans to individuals; State Rural Rehabilitation Corporations, the United States of America or its officials as trustees of the assets of State Rural Rehabilitation Corporations, Regional Agricultural Credit Corporations, Defense Relocation Corporations, land leasing and purchasing associations, corporations, and agencies, and whether the interest of the United States in the indebtedness, instrument of debt, security, security instrument, or other assets is that of obligee, owner, holder, insurer, assignee,
mortgagee, beneficiary, trustee or other interest. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
[44 FR 18162, Mar. 27, 1979, as amended at 80 FR 9866, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.2
National office staff and state directors.
The following officials of the Rural Development, in accordance with applicable laws, and the regulations implementing these laws, are severally authorized, for and on behalf of and in the name of the United States of America or the Rural Development, to do and perform all acts necessary in connection with making and insuring loans, making grants and advances, servicing loans and other indebtedness and obtaining, servicing and enforcing security and other instruments related thereto: The Deputy Administrator Program Operations, the Assistant Administrators for Farmer Programs, Housing, and Community and Business Programs, the Assistant Administrator Accounting and Director Finance Office; each Director and the Insured Loan Officer, Finance Office; the Directors for the Water and Waste Disposal Division, the Community Facilities Division, the Business and Industry Division, the Multi-Family Housing Processing Division, the Multi-Family Housing Servicing and Property Management Division, the Single Family Housing Processing Division, the Single Family Housing Servicing and Property Management Division, the Farm Real Estate and Production Division, the Emergency Division; and each State Director within the area of that State Director's jurisdiction; and in the absence or disability of any such official, the person acting in that official's position; and the delegates of any such official. The authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to:
(a) Effect the assignment of, or the declaration of trust with respect to, insured security instruments to place them in trust with the United States of America as trustee for the benefit of any holder of the promissory note or bond secured by such security instrument.
(b) Acknowledge receipt of notice of sale or assignment of insured loans and security instruments.
(c) Appoint or request the appointment of substitute trustees in deeds of trust.
(d) Execute proofs of claim in bankruptcy, death, and other cases.
(e) Consent to sale or assignment of, or sell or assign, direct or insured loans and security instruments (except that in the case of Agency asset sales, District Directors and County Supervisors are delegated the authority to assign security instruments), endorsements, reinsurance agreements, or other instruments in connection therewith; and execute agreements to insure and reinsure, and to purchase and repurchase insured loans and security instruments.
(f) Compromise, adjust, cancel or charge off indebtedness (except that County Supervisors are delegated authority to approve all settlements of sections 502 and 504 single family housing debt(s)).
(g) Modify contracts and other instruments and compromise claims owed to the Rural Development and covered by the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 and the joint regulations issued under it by the Attorney General and the Comptroller General as provided for in applicable program regulations.
(h) Perform all actions pertaining to the sale (or other disposal) of real or chattel property or interests therein and to execute and deliver bills of sale or other instruments to effect such sale (or disposition), which includes but is not limited to offering property for sale; advertising; receiving and accepting offers or bids; and closing sale transactions, including the collection of sale proceeds, and delivery of quitclaim deeds, easements, and right-of-way conveyances after those documents have been executed. The authority to execute any deeds of conveyance of inventory real property, including quitclaim deeds, easements, rights-of-way, or sale of any use rights is reserved to the State Director, and this authority may not be redelegated.
(i) Approve and consent to transfers of security property to other parties with or without assumption of debts;
and approve and accept transfers of security property or interests therein to the United States of America, and execute release from liability after determination is made in accordance with applicable program regulations.
(j) Execute and deliver, or approve in writing, suspensions, releases or terminations of assignments, of income, renewals, extensions, partial and full releases and satisfactions of security, and personal or indemnity liability for indebtedness, waivers, subordination agreements, severance agreements, affidavits, acknowlegements, certificates of residence, evidence of consent, and other instruments or documents.
(k) Accelerate and declare entire real estate or chattel indebtedness due and payable, foreclose or request foreclosure of real estate security instruments by exercise of power of sale or otherwise, and bid for and purchase at any foreclosure or other sale or otherwise acquire real property pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, attached, or levied upon to collect indetedness, and accept title to any property so purchased or acquired.
(l) Require and accept further or additional security.
(m) Accelerate and declare entire non-real estate indebtedness due and payable, and foreclose or request foreclosure of chattel security instruments by exercise of power of sale or otherwise.
(n) Bid for and purchase at any foreclosure or other sale, or otherwise acquire personal property pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, attached, or levied upon to collect indebtedness, and accept title to any property so purchased or acquired.
(o) Take possession of, maintain, and operate security or acquired real or personal property or interests therein, sell or otherwise dispose of such personal property, and execute and deliver contracts, caretaker's agreements, leases, and other instruments in connection therewith, as appropriate.
(p) Execute proofs of loss on insurance contracts and endorse without recourse loss payment drafts and checks.
(q) Issue, publish and serve notices and other instruments.
(r) File or record instruments, whether separate instruments, or by making marginal entries, or by use of other methods permissible under State law.
[44 FR 18162, Mar. 27, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 5700, Feb. 8, 1982; 50 FR 23901, June 7, 1985; 52 FR 44375, Nov. 19, 1987; 56 FR 6946, Feb. 21, 1991; 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.3
State, district, and county office employees.
The following officials and employees of the Rural Development, in accordance with applicable laws, and the regulations implementing these laws, for and on behalf of, and in the name of the United States of America or the Rural Development, are also severally authorized within the area of their respective jurisdictions to perform the acts specified in paragraphs (g) through (r) of § 1900.2; and within their loan approval authority to sell or otherwise dispose of real or chattel property or interests therein and to execute and deliver bills of sale or other instruments to effect such sale or disposition: Chief, Farmer Programs/Specialist; Chief, Rural Housing/Specialist; Chief, Community Programs/Specialist; Chief, Business and Industry/Specialist; Chief, Community and Business Programs/Specialist; Chief, Appraisal Staff/Appraiser; Chief, Underwriting Staff/Underwriter; Chief, Underwriting and Appraisal Staff; Chief, Servicing and Inventory Staff/Credit Management Specialist/Realty Specialist; each District Director, Assistant District Director, Loan Specialist General, County (including Parish) Supervisor, Emergency Loan Supervisor, Assistant Emergency Loan Supervisor, or other supervisor or assistant supervisor, and in the absence or disability of any such official or employee, the person acting in the position.
[50 FR 23902, June 7, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 43325, Oct. 29, 1990; 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.4
Ratification.
All written instruments affecting title to real or personal property, including but not limited to deeds, releases, satisfactions, subordination agreements, severance agreements, consents, waivers, assignments, declarations of trust, and heretofore executed by officials or employees of the agencies or other entities referred to in
§ 1900.1 to carry out any purpose authorized by law, incident to the administration of programs under the jurisdiction of said agencies or other entities, are hereby approved, confirmed, and ratified.
[44 FR 18162, Mar. 27, 1979]
§ 1900.5
Assignment of cases.
The State Director may, in writing, assign responsibilities and functions to a different office or staff position within the Rural Development State organizational structure other than that referred to in regulations, provided no benefits, rights, or opportunities of the public are changed.
[55 FR 43325, Oct. 29, 1990, as amended at 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.6
Chair, Loan Resolution Task Force.
The Chair, Loan Resolution Task Force is delegated the following authorities, to be exercised until September 30, 1996:
(a) The responsibility for, under applicable Rural Development regulations, collecting and settling all delinquent direct Farmer Program loans as defined in the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, that have received all primary servicing rights and pre-acceleration homestead and preservation loan servicing rights under 7 CFR part 1951, subpart S;
(b) The responsibility for making and directing the making of loan servicing decisions, under applicable Rural Development regulations, concerning delinquent direct Farmer Programs loans for which accrued principal and interest equals or exceeds one million dollars, to extend to borrowers their remaining primary servicing rights and pre-acceleration homestead and preservation loan servicing rights under 7 CFR part 1951, subpart S;
(c) Authority for approving the grant of exceptions pursuant to §§ 1951.916, 1955.21, 1956.99 and 1965.35 of this chapter, to the extent necessary to carry out the responsibilities described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[59 FR 43441, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.7
Effect on other regulations.
This subpart does not revoke or modify any other delegation or redelegation, instruction, procedure, or regulation issued by, or under authority of, the Under Secretary for Rural Development.
[44 FR 18162, Mar. 27, 1979. Redesignated at 55 FR 43325, Oct. 29, 1990, and further redesignated at 59 FR 43441, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]

# Subpart B—Adverse Decisions and Administrative Appeals

# Source:
60 FR 67318, Dec. 29, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1900.51
Definitions.
Act
means the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, Public Law No. 103-354 (7 U.S.C. 6991
et seq.
).
Agency
means the Rural Utilities Service (RUS), the Rural Housing Service (RHS), and the Rural Business-Cooperative Development Service (RBS), or their successor agencies.
Refer to 7 CFR 11.1 for other definitions applicable to appeals of adverse decisions covered by this subpart.
§ 1900.52
General.
This subpart specifies procedures for use by USDA personnel and program participants to ensure that full and complete consideration is given to program participants who are affected by an agency adverse decision.
§ 1900.53
Applicability.
(a) Appeals of adverse decisions covered by this subpart will be governed by 7 CFR part 11.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to adverse decisions concerning direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants under the following programs: RUS Water and Waste Disposal Facility Loans and Grants Program; RHS Housing and Community Facilities Loan Programs; RBS Loan, Grant, and Guarantee Programs and the Intermediary Relending Program; and determinations of the Rural Housing Trust 1987-1 Master Servicer.
(c) This subpart does not apply to decisions made by parties outside an agency even when those decisions are used as a basis for decisions falling within paragraph (b) of this section, for example: decisions by state governmental construction standards-setting agencies (which may determine whether RHS will finance certain houses); Davis-Bacon wage rates; flood plain determinations; archaeological and historical areas preservation requirements; and designations of areas inhabited by endangered species.
§ 1900.54
Effect on assistance pending appeal.
(a) Assistance will not be discontinued pending the outcome of an appeal of a complete or partial adverse decision.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, administrative offsets initiated under subpart C of part 1951 will not be stayed pending the outcome of an appeal and any further review of the decision to initiate the offset.
§ 1900.55
Adverse action procedures.
(a) If an applicant, guaranteed lender, a holder, borrower or grantee is adversely affected by a decision covered by this subpart, the decision maker will inform the participant of the adverse decision and whether the adverse decision is appealable. A participant has the right to request the Director of NAD to review the agency's finding of nonappealability in accordance with 7 CFR 11.6(a). In cases where the adverse decision is based on both appealable and nonappealable actions, the adverse action is not appealable.
(b) A participant affected by an adverse decision of an agency is entitled under section 275 of the Act to an opportunity for a separate informal meeting with the agency before commencing an appeal to NAD under 7 CFR part 11.
(c) Participants also have the right under section 275 of the Act to seek mediation involving any adverse decision appealable under this subpart if the mediation program of the State in which the participant's farming operation giving rise to the decision is located has been certified by the Secretary for the program involved in the decision. An agency shall cooperate in such mediation. Any time limitation for appeal will be stayed pending completion of the mediation process (7 CFR 11.5(c)).
§ 1900.56
Non-appealable decisions.
The following are examples of decisions which are not appealable:
(a) Decisions which do not fall within the scope of this subpart as set out in § 1900.53.
(b) Decisions that do not meet the definition of an “adverse decision” under 7 CFR part 11.
(c) Decisions involving parties who do not meet the definition of “participant” under 7 CFR part 11.
(d) Decisions with subject matters not covered by 7 CFR part 11.
(e) Interest rates as set forth in agency procedures, except for appeals alleging application of an incorrect interest rate.
(f) The State RECD Director's refusal to request an administrative waiver provided for in agency program regulations.
(g) Denials of assistance due to lack of funds or authority to guarantee.
§ 1900.57
[Reserved]
Exhibit A to Subpart B of Part 1900 [Reserved]
Pt. 1900, Subpt. B, Exh. B-1

# Exhibit B-1 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lender, Holders and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions Where the Decision Is Appealable

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354

# (Insert Address)
Date
Dear ____________:
After careful consideration, we [were unable to take favorable action on your application/request for Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 services] [are cancelling/reducing the assistance you are presently receiving]. The specific reasons for our decision are:
(Insert here the adverse decision and all of the specific reasons for the adverse action.)
If you have any questions concerning the decision or the facts used in making our decision and desire further explanation, you may call or write the County Office (insert phone number) to request a meeting with (this office) (The County Committee) within 15 calendar days of the date of this letter. You should present any new information or evidence along with possible alternatives for our consideration. You may also bring a representative [or legal counsel] with you. You also have the right to appeal this decision to a hearing officer in lieu of, or in addition to, a meeting with [this office] [the County Committee]. See attachment for your appeal rights. (Attach Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1900-1.) (For guaranteed loans, except loss claims, the applicant and lender must jointly request a meeting and/or an appeal.)
If you do not wish a meeting, as outlined above, a request for a hearing must be sent to the Area Supervisor, National Appeals Staff (address) ____________, postmarked no later than (month) __________, (date) __________.
(insert date 30 days from date of letter.)
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal Agency that administers compliance with the law concerning this creditor is the Federal Trade Commission, Equal Credit Opportunity, Washington, DC 20580.
Sincerely,
(Decision Maker)
(County Supervisor may sign for County Committee)
(Title)
[55 FR 9874, Mar. 16, 1990]
Pt. 1900, Subpt. B, Exh. B-2

# Exhibit B-2 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders and Holders and Borrowers of Unfavorable Decision Reached at the Meeting

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354

# (Insert Address)
Date
Dear ____________:
We appreciated the opportunity to review the facts relative to [your application/request for FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 services] [the assistance you are presently receiving]. We regret that our meeting with you did not result in a satisfactory conclusion.
(Insert here the adverse decision and all the specific reasons for the adverse action).
See attachment for your appeal rights. (Attach Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1900-1) (For guaranteed loans, except loss claims, the applicant and lender must jointly request an appeal.)
A request for a hearing must be sent to the Area Supervisor, National Appeals Staff ____________, postmarked no later than (month) ____________, (date) ____________
(insert date 30 days from date of letter.)
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal Agency that administers compliance with the law concerning this creditor is the Federal Trade Commission, Equal Credit Opportunity, Washington, DC 20580.
Sincerely,
(Decision Maker)
(County Supervisor may sign for County Committee)
(Title)
[55 FR 9874, Mar. 16, 1990]
Pt. 1900, Subpt. B, Exh. B-3

# Exhibit B-3 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lender, Holders and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions Where the Decision Involves an Appraisal (Not To Be Used in Cases Involving Farmer Program Primary Loan Servicing Actions)

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354

# (Insert Address)
Date
Dear____________:
After careful consideration, we [were unable to take favorable action on your application/request for Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 services] [are cancelling/reducing the assistance you are presently receiving]. The specific reasons for our decision are:
(Insert here the adverse decision and all of the specific reasons for the adverse action.)
If you have any questions concerning the decision or the facts used in making our decision and desire further explanation, you may call or write the County Office (insert phone number) to request a meeting with (this office) (The County Committee) within 15 calendar days of the date of this letter. You should present any new information or evidence along with possible alternatives for our consideration. You may also bring a representative or legal counsel with you.
If you do not wish to have a meeting as outlined above, you may contest the appraisal of the property value. In order to contest the appraisal you must first request review of the appraisal by the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director. Your request for review by the State Director should be made through our office. You will be advised of the results of the State Director's review. If after the State Director's review you still disagree with the appraisal you may request a hearing. When you receive the results of the State Director's review you will be advised on how to ask for a hearing. Your request for review of the appraisal must be postmarked no later than (month)__________, (date) ________ (insert date 15 days from date of letter).
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter
[55 FR 9874, Mar. 16, 1990]
Pt. 1900, Subpt. B, Exh. B-4

# Exhibit B-4 to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders and Holders and Borrowers of Unfavorable Decision Reached After State Director Review of an Appraisal (Not To Be Used in Cases Involving Farmer Program Primary Loan Servicing Actions)

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354

# (Insert Address)
Date
Dear ____________:
At your request we have reviewed the appraisal of the property you wish to purchase. We have determined that the value estimate of the property is both supportable and defensible (as required by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations and appraisal industry standards) and therefore acceptable.
You have the right to appeal this decision. You must show why the appraisal is in error. You may submit an independent appraisal, at your expense, from a qualified appraiser who is a designated member of [the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers, Society of Real Estate Appraisers, American Society of Farm Managers and Rural Appraisers, etc.,] or an equivalent organization requiring appraisal education, testing and experience. The appraisal must conform to Agency Appraisal regulations applicable to the loan program.
See attachment for your appeal rights.
A request for a hearing must be sent to the Area Supervisor, National Appeals Staff (address) ____________, postmarked no later than (month) ____________, (date) ____________,
(insert date 30 days from date of letter)
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal Agency that administers compliance with the law concerning this creditor
is the Federal Trade Commission, Equal Credit Opportunity, Washington, DC 20580.
Sincerely,
(State Director)
[55 FR 9875, Mar. 16, 1990]
Pt. 1900, Subpt. B, Exh. C

# Exhibit C to Subpart B of Part 1900—Letter for Notifying Applicants, Lenders, Holders, and Borrowers of Adverse Decisions When Part or All of the Decision Is Not Appealable [Not Used in Connection With Decisions Related to Nonprogram Applicants, Borrowers, or Property]

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354

# (Insert Address)
(Date)
Dear ____________:
After careful consideration we [were unable to take favorable action on your application/request for Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 services] [are cancelling/reducing the assistance you are presently receiving].
(Insert and number all of the
specific
reasons for the adverse action. Examples of nonappealable reasons are listed in § 1900.55(a)).
If you have any questions about this action, we would like the opportunity to explain in detail why your request has not been approved, explain any possible alternative, or provide any other information you would like. You may bring any additional information you may have and you may bring a representative or counsel if you wish. Please call (
telephone number
) for an appointment.
Applicants and borrowers generally have a right to appeal adverse decisions, but FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 decisions based on certain reasons are not appealable. We have determined that the reason(s) numbered ________ for the decision in this case make(s) the decision not appealable under FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 regulations. You may, however, write the Area Supervisor, National Appeals Staff (insert address) for a review of the accuracy of our finding that the decision is not appealable, postmarked no later than (month) ________, (date) ________ (insert date 30 days from date of letter).
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, handicap, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal Agency that administers compliance with the law concerning this creditor is the Federal Trade Commission, Equal Credit Opportunity, Washington, DC 20580.
Sincerely,
(Decision Maker)
(County Supervisor may sign for County Committee)
(Title)
[55 FR 9875, Mar. 16, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 52646, Oct. 12, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
At 58 FR 52646, Oct. 12, 1993, the Farmers Home Administration attempted to amend exhibit C of subpart B of part 1900 by removing in the second paragraph the words “(month) ________,”; however, because “(month) ________” does not exist in the second paragraph, this amendment could not be incorporated.
Pt. 1900, Subpt. B, Exh. D

# Exhibit D to Subpart B of Part 1900—Hearings/Review Officer Designations
Hearing/Review Officer Designations
Decisionmaker or decision
Hearing officer
Review officer
County Supervisor
National Appeals Staff Hearing Officer
State Director and/or Director, National Appeals Staff.
County Committee
National Appeals Staff Hearing Officer
State Director and/or Director, National Appeals Staff.
*District Director, *State Program Chief, *District Specialist
National Appeals Staff Hearing Officer
**State Director and/or Director, National Appeals Staff.
*State Director, *Regional Director
As appointed by Director, National Appeals Staff
Director, National Appeals Staff.
Division Director or Assistant Administrator
As appointed by Director, National Appeals Staff
Director, National Appeals Staff.
Assistant Administrator
As appointed by Director, National Appeals Staff
Director, National Appeals Staff.
Deputy or Associate Administrator
As appointed by Director, National Appeals Staff
Director, National Appeals Staff.
*Decisionmaker for Rural Development Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 (RDA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354) cases for Regional Office Operations.
**Review officer will be the Regional Director and/or the Director, National Appeals Staff for RDA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 cases.

# Notes
1. District Director also means Assistant District Director or District Loan Specialist.
2. County Supervisor also means Assistant County Supervisor with loan approval authority.
3. The Director of the National Appeals Staff may designate a staff member to conduct a hearing or review. When the hearing/review is completed, the designee will send the complete case file, hearing notes, tape recordings, and a recommended decision to the Director for a final decision. The Director may, for individual cases, delegate final decision authority to a designee.
4. For decisions not directly covered above, advice should be sought from the Director of the National Appeals Staff.
5. An appellant may elect to have an appeal reviewed by the State Director, or the Director of the National Appeals Staff. The decision of the State Director will be subject to further review by the Director of the National Appeals Staff upon request of the appellant.
[58 FR 4065, Jan. 13, 1993]

# Subpart C—Applicability of Federal Law
§ 1900.101
General.
This subpart provides Rural Development policy concerning:
(a) The applicability of Federal rather than State Law in the conduct of Rural Development operations, and
(b) The liability of an auctioneer for conversion of personal property mortgaged to Rural Development.
[44 FR 10979, Feb. 26, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 8934, Feb. 11, 1980; 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.102
Applicable law.
Loans made by Rural Development are authorized and executed pursuant to Federal programs adopted by Congress to achieve national purposes of the U.S. Government.
(a) Instruments evidencing or securing a loan payable to or held by the Rural Development, such as promissory notes, bonds, guaranty agreements, mortgages, deeds of trust, financing statements, security agreements, and other evidences of debt or security shall be construed and enforced in accordance with applicable Federal law.
(b) Instruments evidencing a guarantee, conditional commitment to guarantee, or a grant, such as contracts of guarantee, grant agreements or other evidences of an obligation to guarantee or make a grant, executed by the Rural Development, shall be construed and enforced in accordance with applicable Federal law.
(c) In order to implement and facilitate these Federal loan programs, the application of local procedures, especially for recordation and notification purposes, may be utilized to the fullest extent feasible and practicable. However, the use of local procedures shall not be deemed or construed to be any waiver by Rural Development of Federal immunity from any local control, penalty, or liability, or to subject Rural Development to any State required acts or actions subsequent to the delivery by Rural Development officials of the instrument to the appropriate local or State official.
(d) Any person, corporation, or organization that applies for and receives any benefit or assistance from Rural Development that offers any assurance or security upon which Rural Development relies for the granting of such benefit or assistance, shall not be entitled to claim or assert any local immunity, privilege, or exemption to defeat
the obligation such party incurred in obtaining or assuring such Federal benefit or assistance.
(e) The liability of an auctioneer for conversion of personal property mortgaged to Rural Development shall be determined and enforced in acceptance with the applicable Federal law. “Auctioneer” for the purposes of this subpart includes a commission merchant, market agency, factor or agent. In all cases in which there has been a disposition without authorization by Rural Development of personal property mortgaged to that agency, any auctioneer involved in said disposition shall be liable to the Government for conversion—notwithstanding any State statute or decisional rule to the contrary.
[44 FR 10979, Feb. 26, 1979, as amended at 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]

# Subpart D—Processing and Servicing Rural Development Assistance to Employees, Relatives, and Associates

# Source:
58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1900.151
General.
(a) The Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch requires the maintenance of high standards of honesty, integrity, and impartiality by employees. To reduce the potential for employee conflict of interest, any processing, approval, servicing or review activity, including access through automated information systems, is conducted only by authorized Rural Development employees who:
(1) Are not themselves the recipient.
(2) Are not members of the family or known close relatives of the recipient.
(3) Do not have an immediate working relationship with the recipient, the employee related to the recipient, or the employee who would normally conduct the activity.
(4) Do not have a business or close personal association with the recipient.
(b) No provision of this subpart takes precedence over individual program requirements or restrictions relating to eligibility for Rural Development assistance to Rural Development employees, members of families of employees, close relatives, or business or close personal associates of employees.
(c) The determination of a case's need for special handling under the provisions of this subpart is not an adverse action and, therefore, is not subject to appeal.
(d) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to the Farm Service Agency. The relevant regulations applicable to the Farm Service Agency can be found at 5 CFR parts 2635 and 8301.
[58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 38979, July 11, 2006; 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.152
Definitions.
Applicant or borrower.
All persons or organizations, individually or collectively, applying for or receiving insured or guaranteed loan or grant assistance from or through Rural Development. Referred to as recipient.
Assistance.
Loans or grants made, insured or guaranteed, or serviced by Rural Development.
Associates.
All persons with whom an employee has a business or close personal association or immediate working relationship.
Business association.
Business relationship between those with an identity of financial interest; including but not limited to a business partnership, being an officer, director, trustee, partner or employee of an organization, or other long-term contractual relationship.
Close personal association.
Social relationship between unrelated residents of the same household.
Close relatives.
The spouse, relatives and step-relatives of an employee or the employee's spouse, including Grandmother, Grandfather, Mother, Father, Aunt, Uncle, Sister, Brother, Daughter, Son, Niece, Nephew, Granddaughter, Grandson, and First Cousin.
Conflict of interest.
A situation (or the appearance of one) in which one could reasonably conclude that a Rural Development employee's private interest conflicts with his or her Government duties and responsibilities, even though there may not actually be a conflict.
Employee.
All Rural Development personnel, including gratuitous employees
and those negotiating for or having arrangements for prospective employment, except as otherwise specifically stated. For the purposes of this instruction only, the term also refers to county or area committee members, elected or appointed, and to closing agents who, although they are not employees, have a special relationship to Rural Development and therefore should be subject to these provisions.
Immediate working relationship.
A relationship between a subordinate and a supervisor in a direct line, or between co-workers in the same office. For the purposes of this subpart, the relationships among a County Supervisor and members of the local County Committee are immediate working relationships.
Members of family.
Blood and in-law relatives (such as by marriage or adoption) who are residents of the employee's household.
Recipient.
One who has applied for or received Rural Development financial assistance in the form of a loan or grant. See definition of applicant or borrower.
[58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.153
Identifying and reporting an employee relationship.
(a)
Responsibility of applicant.
When an application for assistance is filed, the processing official asks if there is any known relationship or association with a Rural Development employee. The applicant is required to disclose the requested information under pertinent program regulations.
(b)
Responsibility of the Rural Development employee.
A Rural Development employee who knows he or she is related to or associated with an applicant or recipient, regardless of whether the relationship or association is known to others, is required to notify the Rural Development official who is processing or servicing the assistance, in writing. RD Guide Letter 1900-D-1 (available in any RD office) may be used as the notice. If the appropriate official is not known, the State Director should be notified. Regardless of whether the relationship or association is defined in § 1900.152, if the employee believes there may be a potential conflict of interest, the Rural Development official who is processing or servicing the assistance may be notified and special handling requested. An employee's request that the case receive special handling is usually honored.
(c)
Responsibility of the Rural Development official.
When any relationship or association is identified, the Rural Development official completes and submits RD Guide Letter 1900-D-2 to the State Director (or Administrator, under paragraph (e) of this section or § 1900.155(a)). When completed, RD Guide Letter 1900-D-3 is returned by the State Director, the processing official;
(d)
Relationship or association established after application for Rural Development assistance.
If a relationship or association is established after an application has been filed or assistance has been provided, both recipient and employee are required to notify the Rural Development official as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(e)
Relationship or association with a State Office, Finance Office or National Office employee.
If an identified relationship or association is with an employee at a State Office (other than a State Director), Finance Office or National Office, the processing/servicing official completes and submits RD Guide Letter 1900-D-2 to the State Director in the normal manner. The State Director reviews the information, determines the need for special handling, designates the processing/servicing official, completes and submits RD Guide Letter 1900-D-3 to the Administrator for written concurrence. When the Administrator's concurrence is received, the State Director returns completed RD Guide Letter 1900-D-3 to the original official who completes the action described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Relationship or association with a State Director.
If an identified relationship or association is with a State Director, the processing/servicing official completes and submits RD Guide Letter 1900-D-2 to the Administrator. The Administrator reviews, determines the need for special handling, designates the processing/servicing official, completes and returns RD Guide Letter
1900-D-3 to the original official who completes the action described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(g)
Change in relationship or association, status of Rural Development assistance, or employee's duty station.
If the relationship or association has changed, the application denied or the assistance otherwise terminated, or Rural Development employee's duty station changed, the designated processing/servicing official completes RD Guide Letter 1900-D-2 with the new information and submits it. The review process takes place as described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section to determine if processing/servicing activity may return to normal or requires another change. If the assistance is denied or otherwise terminated, the designated official notifies the original official.
[80 FR 9867, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.154
Determining the need for special handling.
The State Director (or Administrator, under § 1900.153(e) or § 1900.155(a) of this subpart):
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Determines whether the reported relationship or association is defined in § 1900.152 of this subpart and would violate the provisions of § 1900.151(a) of this subpart,
(c)-(f) [Reserved]
§ 1900.155
Designating the processing/servicing official.
(a)
Designating an official with equivalent authority.
The State Director (or Administrator, under § 1900.253(e) of this subpart or this paragraph) designates a nonrelated or nonassociated Rural Development official authorized to conduct the activity under program regulations, established delegation of authority and approval authority under subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter, and whose duty station is most convenient to the recipient and to the security property. A type and/or amount of assistance processed or serviced by a County Supervisor or at a County Office should be assigned only to another County Supervisor or County Office. A type and/or amount of assistance processed or serviced by a District Director or at a District Office should be assigned only to another District Director or District Office.
(b)
County Committee.
For processing or servicing decisions to be made by a County Committee, if the recipient is a member, a different County Committee is designated. If the recipient is related to or associated with the member, notwithstanding the provisions of § 1900.151(a)(3) of this subpart, the State Director
may
permit the decision to be made by the local committee, if the related/associated member abstains.
(c) [Reserved]
[58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1900.156
Special handling—processing.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Eligibility determination.
The designated processing official reviews the application and develops additional data as necessary. Upon determination of whether the assistance will be provided, the designated processing official notifies the applicant of the decision in writing under program regulations, subpart A of part 1910 of this chapter, and subpart B of part 1900. If the determination is favorable, unless otherwise designated, the complete application is returned to the original processing official for docket preparation. If the determination is unfavorable, the designated processing official as decisionmaker participates in the appeal process to its conclusion.
(c)-(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Closing agent.
Unless there is a clear or apparent conflict of interest, closing will be at a location and by a closing agent chosen by the recipient.
(g)
Supervised bank account.
Unless there is a clear or apparent conflict of interest, any supervised bank account (or construction account) is established at a financial institution chosen by the recipient under subpart A of part 1902 of this chapter. Countersignature authority is delegated only to a nonrelated or nonassociated Rural Development official.
(h)
Construction inspection.
Construction inspections are delegated to a nonrelated or nonassociated employee authorized to conduct inspections, whose duty station is nearest the construction site. The designated processing/
servicing official notifies the builder (or architect/engineer) in writing of how and from whom to request inspections.
[58 FR 224, Jan. 5, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§§ 1900.157-1900.200
[Reserved]
Pt. 1901

# PART 1901—PROGRAM-RELATED INSTRUCTIONS
Subparts A-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Civil Rights Compliance Requirements
Sec.
1901.201
Purpose.
1901.202
Nondiscrimination in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs.
1901.203
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968.
1901.204
Compliance reviews.
1901.205
Nondiscrimination in construction financed with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loan or grant.
Exhibit A to Subpart E of Part 1901—Civil Rights Compliance Reviews
Exhibit B to Subpart E of Part 1901—Summary Report of Civil Rights Compliance Reviews
Exhibit C to Subpart E of Part 1901—FmHA or Its Successor Agency Under Public Law 103-354 Financed Contract
Exhibit D to Subpart E of Part 1901—Goals and Timetables for Minorities and Women
Exhibit E to Subpart E of Part 1901—List of Regional Offices, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), U.S. Department of Labor (USDL)

# Subpart F—Procedures for the Protection of Historical and Archeological Properties
1901.251
Purpose.
1901.252
Policy.
1901.253
Definitions.
1901.254
Scope.
1901.255
Historical and archeological assessments.
1901.256-1901.258
[Reserved]
1901.259
Actions to be taken when archeological properties are discovered during construction.
1901.260
Coordination with other agencies.
1901.261
[Reserved]
1901.262
State supplement.
Exhibit A to Subpart F of Part 1901—National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior Regional Offices
Subparts G-J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes
1901.501
Purpose.
1901.502
Policy.
1901.503
Definitions.
1901.504
Authorities and responsibilities.
1901.505
Certificates of beneficial ownership in Rural Development loans.
1901.506
Book-entry procedure for Rural Development securities—issuance and redemption of certificate by Reserve bank.
1901.507
Certificates of beneficial ownership issued by the Rural Development Finance Office.
1901.508
Servicing of insured notes outstanding with investors.
1901.509
Loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of insured notes, insurance contracts, and certificates of beneficial ownership.
Subparts L-N [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 40 U.S.C. 442; 42 U.S.C. 1480, 2942.
Subparts A-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Civil Rights Compliance Requirements

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 40 U.S.C. 442; 42 U.S.C. 1480, 2942.
§ 1901.201
Purpose.
This subpart contains policies and procedures for implementing the regulations of the Department of Agriculture issued pursuant to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Executive Order 11246 and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, as they relate to the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to prohibit preference to American Indians on Indian Reservations.
[41 FR 40112, Sept. 17, 1976]
§ 1901.202
Nondiscrimination in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs.
(a)
Nondiscrimination by recipients of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 assistance.
(1) No recipient of FmHA or its successor agency
under Public Law 103-354 financial assistance will directly or through contractual or other arrangements subject any person or cause any person to be subjected to discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin, with respect to any program or facility. This prohibition applies but is not restricted to unequal treatment in priority, quality, quantity, methods, or charges for service, use, occupancy or benefit, participation in the service or benefit available, or in the use, occupancy or benefit of any structure, facility, or improvement provided with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 financial assistance.
(2) Specifically, and without limiting the general applicability of this subpart, such recipient will not on the grounds of race, color, or national origin:
(i) Deny any person the use, occupancy, or enjoyment of the whole or any part of real or personal property or service, financial aid, or other benefit under any program or facility.
(ii) Provide any person with any service, use, occupancy, or other benefit different from that provided others by the program or facility.
(iii) Subject any person to segregation or separate treatment in any matter related to his or her receipt of any service or other benefit.
(iv) Restrict in any way any person's enjoyment of any right, privilege, or advantage enjoyed by others through the facility or activity.
(v) Treat any person differently from others in determining whether he or she satisfies any requirements or conditions for any admission or membership in the recipient or in any other organization.
(vi) Deny any person an opportunity or restrict opportunity to participate in a program or facility by:
(A) Refusing or failing to provide notice or services provided others for the purpose of encouraging participation in the program or facility; or
(B) Providing any person with such notice or services different from the notice or services provided others.
(vii) Utilize criteria or methods of administration that have the effect of subjecting a person to discrimination with respect to any program or facility or defeating or substantially impairing the achievement of the objectives of a program or facility.
(viii) Select sites or locate facilities with the purpose or effect of:
(A) Excluding individuals from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under any programs to which the regulations in this subpart apply; or
(B) Defeating or substantially impairing the achievement of the objectives of the regulations in this subpart.
(ix) Continue any previous or existing discriminatory practices, but will take affirmative action to overcome the effects of such discrimination.
(x) Deny any person the opportunity to participate as a member of a planning or advisory body which is an integral part of the program.
(b)
Nondiscrimination by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees.
(1) No. FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee will exclude from participation in, or deny the benefits of, any program or activity administered by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, or subject to discrimination any person in the United States on the ground of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or marital status.
(2) No FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee will:
(i) Be limited in the discharge of his or her responsibilities to working with applicants solely on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or marital status.
(ii) Obstruct equal access to buildings, facilities, structures, or lands under the control of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
(iii) Deny under any program or activity of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 equal opportunity for employment; for participation in meetings, demonstrations, training activities or programs; for receiving awards; for receipt of information disseminated by publication, news, radio, and other media; for obtaining contracts, grants, loans or other financial assistance, or for selection to assist in the administration of programs
or activities of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
(3) No FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee will, while conducting official business, participate in or attend any segregated meetings or meetings held in a segregated facility from which persons are excluded because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or marital status.
(c)
Intimidating or retaliatory acts.
No recipient or other person will intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any person for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege under this subpart, or because a person has made a complaint or has testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing related to a complaint. The identity of complainants will be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this subpart.
(d)
Nondiscrimination Agreement.
The County Supervisor will, at the time FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 assistance is requested, give all applicants for loans and grants listed in § 1901.204(a) a copy of Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-4, “Nondiscrimination Agreement,” and inform the applicant that assistance will be conditioned upon executing this form and complying with the requirements of this subpart.
(e)
Covenants.
Each instrument of conveyance for loans subject to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as outlined in § 1901.204, must contain the following covenant: “The property described herein was obtained or improved through Federal financial assistance. This property is subject to the provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the regulations issued pursuant thereto for so long as the property continues to be used for the same or similar purpose for which financial assistance was extended or for so long as the purchaser owns it, whichever is longer.”
(f)
Posters.
The nondiscrimination poster, “And Justice For All,” will be displayed at the facilities and/or office of any borrower or grantee if the facilities have been financed by an FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loan or grant and are subject to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This poster also will be displayed in all FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State and County Offices.
(g)
Racial and ethnic data.
Recipients should maintain, for review by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 and other appropriate agencies, racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354-assisted programs. The data should identify recipients as White, Negro or Black, American Indian, Spanish Surname, Oriental and Other.
(h)
Discrimination complaints.
(1) Any person or any specific class of persons, if they believe they have been subject to discrimination prohibited by this subpart, may file a written complaint with any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 office, or, if they prefer with the Secretary of Agriculture. Persons who complain of discrimination will be advised of their rights to file complaints. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days after the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2) A complaint filed with the County Supervisor or the State Director will be referred promptly to the Administrator, Attention: Equal Opportunity Officer. Attached to the complaint should be a statement by the County Supervisor or State Director identifying the recipient and type of assistance provided by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, indicating whether a nondiscrimination agreement has been signed, and giving any other available pertinent information about the complaint.
[41 FR 40112, Sept. 17, 1976]
§ 1901.203
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968.
FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 borrowers, contractors, packagers, and others who provide
housing for sale or rent, are obligated under the provisions of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 to provide fair housing to all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(a)
Coverage.
The prohibitions against discrimination in the sale, rental, or financing of housing contained in title VIII apply to:
(1) All dwellings financed by loans made by the Federal Government and, therefore, to all RH borrowers.
(2) Any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings defined as:
(i) The owner of a dwelling intended for occupancy by five or more families.
(ii) Any person who has participated as principal in the sale or rental of three or more dwellings in the past year.
(iii) Any person who has served as sale or rental agent in two or more transactions in the past year.
(b)
Discrimination acts prohibited.
Title VIII prohibits FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees, multiple housing borrowers, and those with whom FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 does business (contractors, realtors, packagers) from:
(1) Refusing to sell or rent a particular dwelling because of a person's race, color, religion, or national origin. The following actions constitute violations of this provision:
(i) Refusing to package an RH loan application.
(ii) Refusing or failing to show a particular dwelling or home in a particular subdivision.
(iii) Directing persons only to areas populated by those of similar race, color, religion, or national origin when housing is available in other areas.
(iv) Representing unsold dwellings or sites as sold to prospective buyers.
(2) Requiring applicants for services to meet different terms or conditions because of their race, color, religion, or national origin; for example, requiring larger rents or downpayments from minority applicants.
(3) Including in any advertising either directly or through visual representation a preference for applicants of a particular race or ethnic origin.
(i) Words indicative of the race or ethnic background of the dwelling or landlord such as “White private home,” or “all Black subdivision,” may not be used in advertising housing financed or to be financed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
(ii) Selection of advertising media and the areas to be covered by any advertising must be made to reach potential applicants of all races or ethnic origins.
(c)
FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 affirmative action.
(1) It is the policy of the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 to administer its housing program affirmatively so individuals of similar income levels in the housing market area have housing choices available to them regardless of their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Each participant in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 housing program shall pursue affirmative fair housing marketing policies in soliciting buyers and tenants, in determining their eligibility and in concluding sales and rental transactions.
(2) Applicability. The affirmative fair housing marketing requirements shall apply as follows:
(i) Participants in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 housing programs who request approval for subdivision development involving five or more sites, multi-family projects with five or more units including self-help technical assistance grantees assisting five or more families or five or more conditional commitments for single family dwelling units during a 12-month period must submit an affirmative marketing plan.
(ii) An Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan is required to be prepared and submitted to FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 by the contractor when:
(A) A real estate broker is offering five or more single-family dwellings located in the same subdivision for sale under an exclusive listing contract with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
(B) An auctioneer under contract with FmHA or its successor agency
under Public Law 103-354 is offering five or more single-family dwellings located in the same subdivision for sale by public auction.
(C) A contractor under a contract with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 is managing a multiple-family housing project of five or more units or five or more single-family dwellings located in the same subdivision.
(3) Affirmative fair housing marketing plans will be submitted on form HUD 935.2(3-76) or the participant must be a signatory to a voluntary affirmative marketing agreement approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The plan, if submitted on form HUD 935.2(3-76) shall describe an affirmative program which will meet the following requirements:
(i) Reaching those prospective buyers or tenants, regardless of sex, of majority and minority groups in the marketing area who traditionally would not be expected to apply for such housing without special outreach efforts because of existing racial or socio-economic patterns.
(ii) Undertaking and/or maintaining a non-discriminatory hiring policy in recruiting from both majority and minority groups including both sexes, for staff engaged in the sale or rental of properties.
(iii) Training and instructing employees engaged in the sale or rental properties in the policy and application of nondiscrimination and fair housing.
(iv) Displaying in all sales and rental offices the “Fair Housing” poster.
(v) Posting in a conspicuous position on each property and FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 construction site a sign displaying the equal opportunity logo or the following statement:
We are pledged to the letter and spirit of U.S. policy for the achievement of equal housing opportunity throughout the nation. We encourage and support an affirmative advertising and marketing program in which there are no barriers to obtaining housing because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
(vi) Undertaking efforts to publicize the availability of housing opportunities to minority persons through the type of media customarily used by the applicant or participant, including minority publications and other minority outlets available in the housing market area. As part of these efforts all advertising must include either the equal housing opportunity logo or statement. When illustrations or persons are included they shall depict persons of both sexes and of majority and minority groups.
(4) The affirmative fair housing marketing plans or evidence that the participant is covered by an approved voluntary affirmative marketing agreement must be submitted as follows:
(i) For subdivisions with the preliminary submission of plans and specifications.
(ii) For multi-family projects, including rural rental housing, labor housing, cooperative housing, technical assistance grants and site development loans with SF 424.1, “Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-construction)”, or SF 424.2, “Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction)”, or with the letter of application. Subsequent loans or grants extended to the participant will necessitate a new or updated plan.
(iii) For conditional commitments for five or more individual dwelling units in a 12-month period with the application for the fifth conditional commitment.
(iv) For real estate brokers listing housing properties on an exclusive basis, at any time more than 5 properties are listed for sale by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in the same subdivision.
(5) Affirmative fair housing marketing plans will cover the following time periods:
(i) For subdivision, from time of application until all lots are sold.
(ii) For multi-family projects from time of application until the loan is paid in full or for so long as the project is being used for the same or a similar purpose for which the funds were extended.
(iii) For conditional commitments involving individual dwelling units, one year or until all units built through conditional commitments issued within the one year period have been sold.
(iv) For real estate brokers who list acquired rural housing properties under an exclusive listing contract, one year or until all properties covered under the plan have been sold, whichever is later.
(6) Affirmative fair housing marketing plans will be reviewed and approved by the official authorized to approve the assistance requested. The County Supervisor will review and submit with comments to the official authorized to approve the assistance requested, those fair housing marketing plans where the assistance requested exceeds his approval authority. Any participant covered by this section must have an approved affirmative fair housing marketing plan for any assistance approved 90 or more days after the issuance of these regulations.
(7) Approved affirmative fair housing marketing plans will be made available by the participant for public inspection at the participant's place of business and at each sales or rental office. Participants who fulfill the requirements of this section by filing a Form HUD 9352(3-76) will maintain records to reflect their efforts in fulfilling the affirmative fair housing marketing plan. These records will be made available for review by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 personnel. Affirmative fair housing marketing plans will be reviewed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 personnel in accordance with section 2006-M of this chapter.
(8) Applicants failing to comply with these requirements will be liable to sanctions authorized by regulations, rules or policies governing the program in which they are participating including but not limited to denial of further participation in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 programs and referral to the Department of Justice for suit by the United States for injunctive or other appropriate relief.
(d)
Discrimination complaints.
(1) Complaints against FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees or borrowers under title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 received by the County Office will be sent to the State Director. The State Director will forward the complaints to the Administrator, Attention: Equal Opportunity Officer.
(2) Complaints of discrimination against packagers, contractors or others with whom FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 deals should be filed with the Department of Housing and Urban Development. However, these complaints may be accepted by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees and routed through the State Director to the Administrator, Attention: Equal Opportunity Officer.
(e)
Relations to other regulations.
Nothing in this section in any way interferes with the administration of the nondiscrimination requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or the “Equal Opportunity in Housing Certification,” signed by all packagers.
[41 FR 40112, Sept. 17, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 45894, Sept. 13, 1977; 42 FR 58737, Nov. 11, 1977; 50 FR 23903, June 7, 1985; 53 FR 27825, July 25, 1988; 55 FR 13503, Apr. 11, 1990]
§ 1901.204
Compliance reviews.
(a)
Recipients subject to reviews.
Recipients of the following kinds of loans and/or grants who received their loans or advances of funds on or after January 3, 1965, will be reviewed for compliance in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Guaranteed loans are not covered by Title VI and, therefore, are not subject to compliance reviews.
(1) Economic Opportunity loans to individuals for nonagricultural enterprises.
(2) Loans for Water and Waste Disposal facilities, including Resource Conservation and Development loans for this purpose.
(3) Community Facility loans.
(4) Watershed loans and advances.
(5) Recreation Association loans including those made from Resource Conservation and Development funds.
(6) Economic Opportunity loans to incorporated cooperative associations (Compliance reviews on unincorporated Economic Opportunity cooperatives subject to title VI will be conducted only as the need arises or as directed by either the State Director or the Administrator).
(7) Loans to Timber Development organizations.
(8) Rural Renewal loans and advances.
(9) Rural Rental Housing (formerly Senior Citizen rental) and Rural Cooperative Housing loans.
(10) Labor Housing loans and/or grants.
(11) Rural Housing Site loans.
(12) Business and Industrial Insured loans or grants.
(13) Technical Assistance grants.
(14) Development grants for water and waste disposal.
(15) Technical Assistance and Training grants in accordance with Title XIII of Pub. L. 99-198.
(16) Rural Business Development Grants.
(17) Section 601 Energy Impacted Area Development Assistance grants.
(18) Nonprofit National Corporations grants.
(19) System for Delivery of Certain Rural Development Programs Panel Grants.
(20) Emergency Community Water Assistance grants.
(21) Section 306C WWD loans and grants.
(22) Housing Application Packaging Grants.
(23) Rural and Cooperative Development Grants in subpart F of part 4284 of this title.
(24) Community Facilities Grants in part 3570, subpart B, of this title.
(b)
Duration of obligation for conducting reviews.
Compliance reviews will be conducted on recipients of loans and grants listed in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Until the loan is paid in full or otherwise satisfied; or sold through the sale of FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354's assets; or
(2) Until the last advance of grant funds is made for the grants listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Compliance reviews of loans and grants to individuals
—(1)
Compliance Review Officer.
The County Supervisor will conduct compliance reviews of loans made to individuals.
(2)
Type of review.
If the borrower is currently receiving loan supervision, the County Supervisor may complete the compliance review based on his knowledge of the borrower's operations from other visits. Otherwise the County Supervisor must visit the borrower's facilities. Before completing the compliance review, the County Supervisor should be aware of:
(i) The borrower's operating regulations, for example, the grounds for eviction from a Rural Rental Housing Project.
(ii) The borrower's method of advertising the facility to the public, if there is any advertising, including how well these methods reach the minority community.
(iii) Any records of request for use of the borrower's facility.
(3)
Recording results of review.
The County Supervisor's determination that the borrower is or is not in compliance with title VI, together with information such as that outlined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, will be recorded in the running record. Review of individual Rural Rental Housing borrowers will be recorded on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-8, “Compliance Review (Nondiscrimination by Recipients of Financial Assistance Through FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.)”
(4)
Reporting results of review.
If the borrower is in compliance, the County Supervisor will report his findings to the State Director. Exhibit A is a sample report. In the case of Rural Rental Housing borrowers, a copy of Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-8 will be filed in the borrower's County Office loan docket, and the original will be sent to the State Director. If the borrower is not in compliance, the borrower's name, location, type of loan involved, and the reasons for the finding of noncompliance will be sent to the State Director.
(5)
Forwarding report of noncompliance.
The State Director will see that all compliance review reports are complete. If the recipient was found in noncompliance, the State Director will immediately send a copy of the compliance review report to the Administrator, Attention: Equal Opportunity Officer, with recommended action to take to bring the recipient into compliance.
(d)
Review of loans or grants to organizations (any borrower or grantee other
than an individual)
—(1)
Designation of compliance review officer.
The State Director, except for Technical Assistance and Training grants (Pub. L. 99-198) and Nonprofit National Corporations grants, will designate the Compliance Review Officer for recipient organization. County Supervisors may be designated only if they have received approved compliance review training. Otherwise, the Compliance Review Officer must be a member of the State staff. For Technical Assistance and Training grants and Nonprofit National Corporations grants, the Assistant Administrator for Community and Business Programs will designate the Compliance Review Officer for recipient organizations.
(2)
Type of review.
Compliance reviews may be completed in connection with regular supervision visits to organizations and must include an inspection of the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354-financed facility. Before determining that the recipient is or is not complying with the provisions in Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-4, the Compliance Review Officer will:
(i) Observe the recipient's records, including records on the present membership by race, the handling of applications for use of the facility, the user rates and membership fees or dues, and the facility's operating regulations.
(ii) Determine if the recipient advertises for members or users. If so, observe the effectiveness of the recipient's methods of advertising the availability of the facility to the public, and especially the effectiveness of this advertising in reaching the minority community.
(iii) Interview organization officials, members, and employees. In reviews of recipients of Technical Assistance grants, members of the self-help housing groups should be interviewed to determine the way in which they were recruited.
(iv) Interview informed local community leaders, including minority leaders, if any to determine if the facility is operating without discrimination because of race, color, or national origin.
(3)
Recording results of reviews
—(i)
Association, Watershed, Resource Conservation and Development, and Rural Renewal loans involving recreation facilities.
Reviews will be recorded on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-7, “Compliance Reviews for Recreational Loans to Associations (FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Borrowers).” If the organization is found in compliance with title VI, the original of the form will be sent to the State Director, and a copy will be filed in the borrower's County Office loan docket. If the organization is found in noncompliance, any additional information which led to the finding will be sent with the form.
(ii)
Loans and/or grants for Water and Waste Disposal systems, incorporated Economic Opportunity cooperatives, Grazing associations, Rural Rental Housing, Labor Housing, and Rural Housing Sites.
Reviews will be completed on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-8. The original of the form will be sent to the State Director and a copy filed in the borrower's County Office loan docket. If the organization is found in noncompliance, any additional information which led to the finding will be sent with the form.
(iii)
Timber Development organizations, Rural Cooperative Housing loans, and Technical Assistance grants.
The information obtained during the compliance review as well as the Compliance Review Officer's determination of the borrower's compliance or noncompliance will be recorded in the running record. If the organization is found in compliance, a report (see exhibit A) will be sent to the State Director. If the organization is not in compliance, the organization's name, location, type of loan received, and all information which led to the finding will be sent to the State Director.
(iv)
Technical Assistance and Training grants (Pub. L. 99-198) and Nonprofit National Corporations grants.
The Compliance Review Officer will record in the running record information obtained during the compliance review and the determination of recipient's compliance or noncompliance. A report will be prepared and sent to the Assistant Administrator, Community and Business Programs, for each recipient.
(4)
Mandatory hook-up ordinance.
Compliance reviews of public entity borrowers or grantees for water and waste disposal facilities who are operating under the provisions of a mandatory hook-up ordinance will consist of a certification by the borrower or grantee that the ordinance is still in effect and is being enforced.
(5)
Forwarding noncompliance report.
The State Director will see that the reports are complete. If the recipient was found in noncompliance, the State Director will immediately send a copy of the report to the Administrator, Attention: Equal Opportunity Officer, with action proposed to bring the recipient into compliance. For Technical Assistance and Training grants and Nonprofit National Corporations grants, the Assistant Administrator, Community and Business Programs, will send a copy of the report to the Equal Opportunity Officer.
(e)
Timing of reviews
—(1)
Reporting year.
The State Director will schedule Civil Rights compliance reviews from November 1 to October 31 of each year. For example, compliance reviews scheduled during 1976 should be conducted after November 1, 1975, but before October 31, 1976.
(2)
Initial reviews
—(i)
Water and Waste Disposal loan and/or grant.
The initial compliance review will be conducted before loan or grant closing or before the construction begins, whichever occurs first.
(ii) Technical Assistance grants, Technical Assistance and Training grants (Pub. L. 99-198) and Nonprofit National Corporations grants. The initial compliance review will be conducted before the grant is closed.
(iii)
Rural Housing Site loan.
The initial compliance review will be conducted at the beginning of the sale of the sites developed with the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loan.
(iv)
Watershed loans for future water supply.
The initial compliance review will be made when usage of the stored water begins.
(v)
All other loans and/or grants.
The initial compliance review of loans and/or grants listed in paragraph (a) of this section will be conducted within the first reporting year after the loan or grant is closed or after Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-4 is signed.
(3)
Subsequent reviews.
The State Director is responsible for requiring subsequent compliance reviews at intervals not less than 90 days, or more than 3 years, after the previous compliance review.
(i) For Water and Waste Disposal organizations with loans that have had at least two compliance reviews after loan closing covering a six-year period, and where no discriminatory practices are indicated, the frequency of subsequent reviews may be reduced to six years.
(ii) If Water and Waste Disposal organizations have merged to form a new organization, two reviews will be conducted at 3-year intervals after the merger and one every 6 years thereafter, provided no discriminatory practices are noted.
(f)
State Office summary reports.
The State Director will keep a list of all compliance reviews conducted during the reporting year so as to schedule each year's reviews. The State Director will submit a copy of this list to the Administrator, Attention: Equal Opportunity Office, no later than July 31 of each year. Recipients found in noncompliance will also be listed on the summary report. Exhibit B is a sample report. For Technical Assistance and Training grants and Nonprofit National Corporations grants, the Assistant Administrator, Community and Business Programs, will submit a summary report, using exhibit B of this subpart as a guide, to the Equal Opportunity Officer by July 31 of each year.
[41 FR 40112, Sept. 17, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 41949, Nov. 2, 1987; 53 FR 3860, Feb. 10, 1988; 55 FR 5962, Feb. 21, 1990; 57 FR 11559, Apr. 6, 1992; 58 FR 5565, Jan. 22, 1993; 58 FR 58643, Nov. 3, 1993; 59 FR 41389, Aug. 12, 1994; 61 FR 3781, Feb. 2, 1996; 62 FR 16468, Apr. 7, 1997; 62 FR 33510, June 19, 1997; 62 FR 42387, Aug. 7, 1997; 68 FR 69952, Dec. 16, 2003; 80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015]
§ 1901.205
Nondiscrimination in construction financed with FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 loan or grant.
Executive Order 11246 provides for equal employment opportunity without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or
national origin and the elimination of all facilities segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin on construction work financed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 involving a construction contract of more than $10,000.
(a)
Compliance.
This section applies to Federal or federally assisted construction contracts or subcontracts in excess of $10,000 for on-site construction. It also applies to invitations for bids published for such construction. If construction work of over $10,000 is partially financed by another Federal Agency, the County Supervisor will try to reach an agreement as to which agency will administer the nondiscrimination requirements. If unable to reach an agreement, the County Supervisor will refer the case to the State Director.
(b)
Requirements of applicants, contractors, or subcontractors and responsible FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 officials
—(1)
Applicant.
The applicant will be required to execute Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-1, “Equal Opportunity Agreement,” at the time the loan is closed or before construction is started, whichever occurs first. If the applicant is an incorporated association, a resolution of the governing body will authorize execution of the form. Municipalities or other public bodies will have to incorporate references to this form in the loan resolution before it is adopted. If the applicant wants to publish for bids, the applicant must obtain Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1924-5, “Invitation for Bid (Construction Contract)” which is in compliance with Executive Order 11246, from the local FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 County Supervisor.
(2)
Contractor or Subcontractor.
(i) The prospective contractor or subcontractor must submit Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-6, “Compliance Statement,” to the County Supervisor before contract bid negotiations, and comply with the requirements of Executive Order 11246, which are included with Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1924-6, “Construction Contract,” during the performance of the contract. The contract will contain the required “Standard Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Construction Contract Specifications” goals and timetables as set forth in exhibit D.
(ii) The contractor or subcontractor will prepare and submit Form Contract Compliance (CC) 257, “Monthly Employment Utilization Report” to the appropriate regional office of the U.S. Department of Labor (USDL) (see exhibit E, “List of Regional Offices”) by the fifth of each month through completion of the contract.
(3)
The County Supervisor or the responsible FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official will:
(i) Deliver to the contractor the following forms, as appropriate:
(A) Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-3, “Notice to Contractors and Applicants,” with an attached Equal Employment Opportunity Poster. Posters in Spanish will be provided when appropriate,
(B) Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 400-6, and
(C) Form CC 257.
(ii) Deliver to the applicant Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1924-5 when contractors are to be invited to submit bids, and Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1924-6 to contract for construction.
(iii) Explain to applicant and contractor the requirements of Executive Order 11246, when needed. However, inquiries concerning compliance must be addressed to the appropriate regional office of USDL (see exhibit E).
(iv) Submit a report similar in form and content to exhibit C (“FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Financed Contract”) of this Instruction to the appropriate regional office of USDL (Exhibit E) within 10 calendar days of the date a contract or subcontract in excess of $10,000 is awarded.
(c)
Contractors with 100 or more employees and contract over $10,000.
Contractors with 100 or more employees and contract over $10,000, will file the following with the Joint Reporting
Committee, 1800 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20006:
(1) SF-100 “Employer Information Report EEO-1,” within 30 days of contract award unless the report has been submitted within the past 12 months, and
(2) An annual report by March 31, so long as the contractor holds any FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 financed contract in excess of $10,000.
(d)
Contractor with at least 50 employees and contract of $50,000 or more.
Each contractor or subcontractor with at least 50 employees and contract of $50,000 or more, must develop a written affirmative action compliance program for each project. This must be on file in each contractor's or subcontractor's personnel file within 120 days after the beginning of the contract. Form AD-425 provides guidelines for developing compliance programs.
(e)
Compliance during construction.
The County Supervisor will:
(1) Check to see that:
(i) Required posters are displayed.
(ii) There is no evidence of discrimination in employment.
(2) Record findings on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1924-12, “Inspection Report.”
(3) If there is any evidence of noncompliance, the County Supervisor will report all the facts to the appropriate office of USDL (see exhibit E).
(f)
Hometown Plans.
All construction contracts and subcontracts in excess of $10,000, financed by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, in areas which have Hometown Plans regarding affirmative action and equal employment, are subject to the conditions set forth in the applicable plan. Each State Director should seek the advice of the OGC as to compliance with any such plans in the State Director's jurisdiction.
(g)
Discrimination complaints.
(1) Complaints alleging discriminatory acts may be filed directly with the appropriate regional office of USDL (see exhibit E) or with the County Supervisor or the State Director for subsequent forwarding to the above address, by any employee or applicant for employment with a contractor or subcontractor.
(2) Each complaint must be in writing and signed by the complainant (The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official receiving the complaint will assist complainant when necessary). The complaint will include:
(i) Name, address, and telephone number of complainant.
(ii) Name and address of the person allegedly discriminating.
(iii) Date and place of the discrimination.
(iv) Description of the discrimination.
(v) Any other information that will assist in investigating and resolving the complaint.
(3) Complaints must be filed not later than 180 days after the alleged act unless the State Director extends the time, for good cause shown by the complainant.
[43 FR 58356, Dec. 14, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 24852, Apr. 27, 1979; 52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987]
Pt. 1901, Subpt. E, Exh. A

# Exhibit A to Subpart E of Part 1901—Civil Rights Compliance Reviews
To: State Director, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
Civil Rights compliance reviews have been conducted, and each recipient listed below was found in compliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Information which led to this finding and my determination that the recipient is in compliance are in the running record of the recipient's file.
Recipient
Case No.
Type of assistance
1
Date of review
Sam H. Smith
99-05-7031 (rec.)
OL
Jan. 3, 1975.
John A. Jones
99-05-8764
RL
Feb. 17, 1975.
Medina Housing Association
99-05-9176 grant
TA
Mar. 5, 1975.
1
Indicate only the loans or grants received which are subject to compliance reviews.
County Supervisor
Pt. 1901, Subpt. E, Exh. B

# Exhibit B to Subpart E of Part 1901—Summary Report of Civil Rights Compliance Reviews
To: Administrator, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
Attention: Director, Equal Opportunity Staff.
I. Civil Rights Compliance Reviews have been conducted, and the following recipients were found in compliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Loan type
Loan number
Type of review
Pre-award* post-award**
1.
2.
3.
*A pre-award review is a compliance review conducted prior to loan or grant approval.
**A post-award review is a compliance review conducted after loan closing.
II. The following recipients were found in non-compliance:
Name of borrower
Loan type
Loan number
Type of review
Pre-award post-award
Date report of noncompliance sent to nat. ofc.
1.
2.
3.
State Director.
(7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70)
[47 FR 39127, Sept. 7, 1982]
Pt. 1901, Subpt. E, Exh. C

# Exhibit C to Subpart E of Part 1901—FmHA or Its Successor Agency Under Public Law 103-354 Financed Contract
To: Area Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Program, U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) (Insert address for your DOL area, from exhibit E, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Instruction 1901-E)
We submit the following information relative to a construction contract in excess of $10,000:
1. Contractor's name:
Address:
Telephone Number:
Employer's Identification Number:
2. Contract for: ____ $__________
Starting Date:
Completion Date:
Contract Number:
City:
DOL Region:
[52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987]
Pt. 1901, Subpt. E, Exh. D

# Exhibit D to Subpart E of Part 1901—Goals and Timetables for Minorities and Women
The preamble to regulations establishing a new part 60-4 to 41 CFR chapter 60 published at 43 FR 14888-14894, April 7, 1978, states that OFCCP contemplates proposing standards and goals for minorities within the very near future. Until that notice has been proposed and final action taken, construction contractors and subcontractors will continue to be subject to the goals and timetables for minority utilization on Federal and federally assisted construction existing now under Executive order 11246. Such goals are published in appendix B.
Now, therefore, based on the foregoing and 41 CFR part 60-4, each contracting agency, each applicant, and each contractor shall include the appropriate goal set forth in appendix A and appendix B in all invitations for bids or other solicitations for federally involved construction contracts in excess of $10,000. The goals in appendix A hereby are established on a nationwide basis as the standards for female utilization for all trades.
Appendix B established the goals for minority utilization which shall be applicable for the respective areas set forth in appendix B.
Appendix A and appendix B shall be effective with respect to transactions for which the invitations for bids or other solicitations or amendments thereto are sent, on or after May 8, 1978.
Weldon J. Rougeau,
Director, OFCCP.
March 28, 1978.

# Appendix A
The following goals and timetables for female utilization shall be included in all Federal and federally assisted construction contracts and subcontracts in excess of $10,000. The goals are applicable to the contractor's aggregate on-site construction workforce whether or not part of that workforce is performing work on a Federal or federally assisted construction contract or subcontract.

# area covered
Goals for Women apply nationwide.
Goals and Timetables
Timetable
Goals (percent)
From Apr. 1, 1978 until Mar. 31, 1979
3.1
From Apr. 1, 1979 until Mar. 31, 1980
5.1
From Apr. 1, 1980 until Mar. 31, 1981
6.9

# Appendix B
Until further notice, the following goals and timetables for minority utilization shall be included in all Federal or federally assisted construction contracts and subcontracts in excess of $10,000 to be performed in the respective covered areas. The goals are applicable to the contractor's aggregate on-site construction workforce whether or not part of that workforce is performing work on a Federal or federally assisted construction contract or subcontract.

# Region
1
1
Region refers to the 10 regions in which the U.S. Department of Labor has offices. These Regions are headquartered in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Kansas City, Denver, San Francisco, and Seattle, which are numbered I through X respectively.

# boston, mass. area
Area covered
—Arlington, Boston, Belmont, Brookline, Burlington, Cambridge, Canton, Chelsea, Dedham, Everett, Malden, Medford, Wakefield, Westwood, Winthrop, Winchester, Woburn, and the Islands of Boston Harbor, Mass.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
10.8-10.12
Boilermakers
9.6-12.0
Bricklayers
8.0-10.0
Carpenters
11.6-14.5
Cement masons
25.5-27.5
Electricians
6.0-7.0
Elevator constructors
9.5-11.4
Glaziers
8.8-11.0
Ironworkers
5.9-6.9
Lathers
6.9-8.9
Operating engineers
14.1-15.0
Painters
9.1-11.1
Pipefitters
11.0-12.1
Plasterers
20.5-22.5
Plumbers
9.8-11.8
Roofers
8.4-10.5
Sheetmetal workers
10.1-12.1
Sprinkler fitters
12.3-15.6
All other trades
10.3-12.3

# state of rhode island area
Area covered
—Statewide.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
5.0

# Region II

# buffalo, ny area
Area covered
—Erie County and Buffalo, NY.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
10.6-13.2

# camden, nj area
Area covered
—Camden, NJ, area of Camden, Salem, and Gloucester Counties.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
11.6-14.5
Boilermakers
10.8-13.5
Bricklayers
17.8-20.0
Carpenters
11.2-13.0
Cement masons
12.0-15.0
Electricians
14.9-17.8
Elevator constructors
10.8-13.5
Glaziers
16.0-20.0
Lathers
10.8-13.5
Operating engineers
10.0-12.5
Painters/decorators/paperhangers
8.8-12.8
Plasterers
17.0-19.0
Plumbers/pipefitters/steamfitters
8.4-10.5
Roofers
8.4-10.5
Sheetmetal workers
11.2-14.0
Sprinkler fitters
10.8-13.5
Structural metal workers
12.9-15.3
Wharf 7 dock builders
10.8-13.5

# elmira, ny area
Area covered
—Chemung, Steuben, Schuyler, Tioga, and Yates Counties, NY.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
4.0-5.0

# long island, ny area
Area covered
—Nassau and Suffolk Counties, NY.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
6.0-8.0

# westchester, ny area
Area covered
—Westchester County, NY.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
11-13

# Region III

# state of delaware area
Area covered
—State of Delaware.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
11-13

# philadelphia, pa, area
Area covered
—Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, and Philadelphia Counties, PA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Ironworkers
22-26
Plumbers and pipefitters
20-24
Steamfitters
20-24
Sheetmetal workers
19-23
Electrical workers
19-23
Elevator construction workers
19-23

# pittsburgh, pa, area
Area covered
—Allegheny County, PA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
24.3-27.8
Boilermakers
33.8-37.7
Bricklayers
11.9-13.0
Carpenters
11.8-12.9
Cement masons
16.3-18.1
Electricians
17.0-20.3
Glaziers
26.9-30.4
Ironworkers
25.5-29.9
Lathers
12.7-13.8
Operating engineers
44.2-48.3
Painters
16.4-17.9
Plasterers
34.3-38.0
Plumbers
7.8-9.2
Roofers
47.1-50.1
Sheetmetal workers
26.0-26.9
Steamfitters
10.1-12.9
Tile setters
13.6-16.0
All other
27.6-31.5

# washington, dc, area
Area covered
—District of Columbia; the Virginia cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, and Falls Church; the Virginia counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William; and the Maryland counties of Montgomery and Prince Georges.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Electricians
28.0-34.0
Painters and paperhangers
35.0-42.0
Plumbers, pipefitters and steamfitters
25.0-30.0
Iron workers
35.0-43.0
Sheetmetal workers
25.0-31.0
Elevator constructors
34.0-40.0
Asbestos workers
26.0-32.0
Lathers
34.0-40.0
Boilermakers
24.0-30.0
Tile and terrazzo workers
28.0-34.0
Glaziers
28.0-34.0

# Region IV

# atlanta, ga, area
Area covered
—Atlanta, GA, Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area which includes Fulton, DeKalb, Cobb, Clayton, and Gwinnett Counties.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
8.6-10.3
Bricklayers
16.3-18.2
Carpenters
11.0-12.8
Electricians
10.9-12.2
Glaziers
10.2-12.2
Ironworkers
14.0-16.0
Metal lathers
10.0-12.0
Painters
10.3-12.0
Plumbers
9.4-10.9
Pipefitters
9.4-10.9
Plasterers
24.4-25.8
Roofers
18.0-20.0
Sheetmetal workers
9.5-11.3
Sprinkler fitters
8.3-9.9
Operating engineers
24.0-27.7
Elevator installers
9.6-11.5

# birmingham, al, area
Area covered
—Jefferson, Shelby, and Walker Counties, AL.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
20-24

# charlotte, nc, area
Area covered
—Mecklenburg and Union Counties, NC.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
24-30

# jacksonville, fl, area
Area covered
—Drival County, FL.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
20-23

# louisville, ky, area
Area covered
—Adair, Barren, Bullitt, Carrol, Edmundson, Grayson, Green, Hardin, Hart, Henry, Jefferson, Larue, Meade, Nelson, Oldham, Shelby, Spencer, Taylor, Trimble, Warren, and Washington Counties, KY; and Clark, Floyd and Harrison Counties, IN.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
12.0-16.0

# miami, fl, area
Area covered
—Dade County, FL.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
20.0-40.0

# nashville, tn, area
Area covered
—City of Nashville, TN.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
16.0-20.0

# Region V

# akron, oh, area
Area covered
—Summit, Portage, and Medina Counties, OH.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
10.0-12.5

# canton, oh, area
Area covered
—Carroll, Holmes, Stark, Tuscarawas, and Wayne Counties, OH.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
7.0-8.4

# chicago, il, area
Area covered
—Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will Counties.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
8.6-10.3
Bricklayers
16.3-8.2
Carpenters
11.0-12.8
Electricians
10.9-12.2
Elevator installers
9.6-11.5
Glaziers
10.2-12.2
Ironworkers
14.0-16.0
Metal lathers
10.0-12.0
Painters
10.3-12.1
Plumbers
9.4-10.9
Pipe fitters
9.4-10.9
Plasterers
24.4-25.8
Roofers
18.0-20.0
Sheetmetal workers
9.5-11.3
Sprinkler fitters
8.3-9.9
Operating engineers
(
1
)
1
15.7 and above.

# cincinnati, oh, area
Area covered.
Ohio counties of Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren and in the Kentucky counties of Boone, Campbell, and Kenton, and in the Indiana county of Dearborn.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
9.3-12.2
Boilermakers
8.0-8.4
Carpenters
9.0-10.7
Elevator constructors
10.2-12.7
Engineers (stationary)
26.9-28.4
Floor layers
9.0-10.5
Glaziers
9.1-11.1
Lathers
9.3-10.6
Marble, tile and terrazzo workers and helpers
8.3-9.9
Millwrights
9.1-10.3
Painters
11.0-13.5
Pipefitters
10.0-12.0
Plasterers
8.7 to 9.6
Plumbers
10.0-12.7
Sheetmetal workers
10.1-11.3
All other
11.0-11.8

# cleveland, oh, area
Area covered
—Ashland, Ashtabula, Crawford, Cuyahoga, Erie, Geauga, Huron, Lake, Lorain, Sandusky, and Seneca Counties, OH.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Art glass workers
25.4-28.6
Asbestos workers
20.9-23.9
Boilermakers
16.3-18.9
Bricklayers
28.8-29.5
Carpenters
8.0-8.6
Cement masons
41.1-42.2
Electricians
15.1-18.1
Elevator constructors
28.9-32.5
Glaziers
35.8-40.0
Ironworkers
11.4-13.2
Painters
17.7-18.4
Pipefitters
15.7-17.9
Plasterers
21.6-23.2
Plumbers
20.8-23.4
Roofers
28.9-31.8
All other
17.0-18.8

# dayton, oh, area
Area covered
—Greene, Miami, Montgomery, and Preble Counties, OH.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
10.6-11.8

# detroit, mi., area
Area covered
—Wayne, Oakland, and Macomb Counties, MI.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Electricians
17.0-19.0
Operating engineers
16.9-18.0
Lathers
18.6-19.6
Painters
15.0-17.7
Riggers
16.8-17.7
Roofers
15.3-16.6
Tile, terrazzo marble workers
15.0-17.8
Tile and marble helpers
16.0-18.5
Terrazzo helpers
17.8-19.5
All other
18.6-20.4

# evansville, in, area
Area covered
—Vanderburgh County, IN.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
6.3-7.6

# fort wayne, in, area
Area covered
—Adams, Allen, DeKalb, Huntington, LaGrange, Noble, Steuben, Wells, and Whitley Counties, IN.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Plumbers
5.2-5.5
Steamfitters
5.2-5.5
Carpenters
5.7-5.2
Bricklayers
9.3-10.4
Electricians
5.2-5.9
Sheetmetal workers
4.4-5.2
Ironworkers
7.3-8.4
Operating engineers
5.2-6.0
Painters
11.0-12.0
All other
7.1-8.0

# indianapolis, in, area
Area covered
—Marion County, IN.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
32.2-37.7
Bricklayers
17.4-19.5
Electricians
6.6-7.8
Elevator constructors
15.5-18.0
Glaziers
25.2-28.6
Ironworkers
11.6-14.0
Lathers
21.1-22.0
Operating engineers
7.7-8.8
Painters
22.4-25.0
Plasterers
27.5-30.4
Plumbers
25.5-30.0
Roofers
15.9-18.1
Sheetmetal workers
9.3-10.9
Steamfitters
14.9-17.1
All other
14.1-16.2

# peoria, il, area
Area covered
—Peoria, Fulton, Tazewell, Woodford, Knox, Stark, Marshall, Hancock, Mason, McLean, McDonough, Henderson, Warren, Livingston, Bureau, Henry, and Putnam Counties, IL.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
5.0-6.0

# rockford, il, area
Area covered
—Boone, Winnebago, Stephenson, De Kalb, Ogle, Lee, and Jo Daviess Counties; Cherry Grove, Shannon, Rock Creek, Lima, Wysox, and Elkhorn Townships in Carroll County; Genesee, Jordan, Hopkins, Sterling, Hume, Montmorency, Tampico, and Hahnaman Townships in Whiteside County, IL.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
10.0-12.0

# south bend, in, area
Area covered
—St. Joseph, County, IN.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
8.0-10.0

# toledo, oh, area
Area covered
—Defiance, Fulton, Hancock, Henry, Lusas, Ottawa, Williams, and Wood Counties, OH.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
10.7-12.3

# youngstown, oh area
Area covered
—Columbiana, Mahoning, and Trumbull Counties, OH; and Lawrence and Mercer Counties, PA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
6.0-7.1

# Region VI

# el paso, tx, area
Area covered
—El Paso County, TX.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
55.1-66.2

# lawton, ok, area
Area covered
—Commanche County, OK.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
15.8-16.8

# little rock, ar, area
Area covered
—Pulaski County, AR.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
25.6-30.6

# new orleans, la.
Area covered
—Parishes of Orleans, Jefferson, St. Bernard, St. Tammany, St. Charles, St. John, Lafourche, Plaquemines, Washington, Terrebonne, Tangipahoa,
1
Livingston,
2
and St. James.
3
1
Area covered is east of the Illinois Central RR.
2
Area covered is southeast of the line from a point off the Livingston and Tangipahoa Parish line adjacent from New Orleans and Baton Rouge.
3
Area covered is southeast of a line drawn from the town of Gramercy to the point of intersection of St. James, Lafourche, and Assumption Parishes.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
20-23

# tulsa, ok
Area covered
—Tulsa, Creek, Mayes, Rogers, Okfuskee, Washington, Nowata, Craig, Ottawa, Delaware, Okmulgee (northern half), dividing line Highway 16; Osage (eastern half), dividing line Highway 18; Pawnee (eastern half), and Payne (eastern half) Counties, OK.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Bricklayers
24.0-25.0
Carpenters
17.0-18.0
Cement masons
21.5-22.5
Floor covers
12.0-14.0
Glaziers, glass workers
14.7-17.3
Operating engineers
22.0-24.0
Painters
18.0-20.0
Pipefitters
10.0-12.0
Plumbers
11.6-13.2
Roofers
12.0-14.0
Sheetmetal workers
8.0-10.0
All other trades
12.0-14.4

# Region VII

# kansas city (ks) and (mo)
Area covered
—Clay, Platte, Jackson, Bates, Carroll, Lafayette, Ray, Johnson, Henry, and Cass Counties, Mo., and Wyandotte, Johnson, and Miami Counties, KS.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
10.3-11.7
Boilermakers
5.9-6.4
Bricklayers
19.4-20.7
Carpenters
5.9-6.9
Carpet, linoleum and resilient floor decorators
5.5-6.4
Cement masons
25.5-26.5
Elevator constructors
9.2-10.7
Electricians
8.0-9.4
Glaziers
9.8 to 10.5
Lathers
14.5-15.6
Marble masons, tile layers and terrazzo workers
7.5-9.0
Marble and tile helpers
4.8-5.6
Operating engineers
9.0-10.9
Painters
14.3-15.0
Pipefitters
6.9-7.7
Plasterers
19.0-20.4
Plumbers
8.3-9.3
Roofers
14.0-15.0
Sheetmetal workers
7.0-8.0
Teamsters
25.0-26.0
All other trades
11.4-12.5

# omaha, ne
Area covered
—Sharpy and Douglas Counties, NE, Council Bluffs, IA (city limits only).
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
9.0-10.0

# st. louis, mo
Area covered
—City of St. Louis, Mo., and St. Louis, MO.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
5.2-5.7
Boilermakers
34.0-37.7
Bricklayers
12.6-14.2
Carpenters
8.2-8.9
Cement and concrete finishers
13.3-16.6
Electricians
13.6-16.1
Elevator constructors
8.7-9.3
Glaziers
28.7-34.5
Ironworkers
9.0-10.4
Lathers and plasterers
24.2-29.7
Operating engineers
13.2-15.7
Painters and paperhangers
25.1-29.3
Plumbers and pipefitters
13.2-15.4
Roofers and slaters
17.1-19.6
Sheetmetal workers
22.5-27.0
Tilesetters and terrazzo workers
8.8-10.4

# topeka, ks
Area covered
—Shawnee County, KS.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
8.8-10.5

# Region VIII

# colorado
Area covered
—State of Colorado
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
13-14

# Region IX

# alameda county, ca, area
Area covered
—Alameda County, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
28.5-33.0

# arizona
Area covered
—State of Arizona.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
25.0-30.0

# contra costa county, ca
Area covered:
Contra Costa County, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
17.0-19.5

# fresno county, ca
Area covered.
Fresno, Madera, Kings, and Tulare Counties, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
20.0-27.0

# las vegas, nv
Area covered.
Area of jurisdiction of the Building
Construction Trades Council of Clark, Lincoln, Nye and Esmeralda Counties, NV.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
17.7-20.2
Bricklayers
18.8-21.3
Carpenters
16.2-17.5
Glaziers, floorcoverers, painters, tapers and wallcoverers
16.3-17.7
Plasterers
24.6-27.2
Plumbers and pipefitters
15.2-16.2
Sheet metal workers
16.2-17.7
Wood, wire and metal lathers
18.1-19.3
All other trades
18.0-19.5

# los angeles county, ca
Area covered.
Area of jurisdiction of the Los Angeles Building
Construction Trades Council.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
21.7-25.1

# monterey, ca
Area covered.
Monterey County, CA, and within the jurisdiction of the Monterey County Building
Construction Trades Council, AFL-CIO.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
27.0-29.8

# north bay, ca
Area covered.
Solano, Napa, Lake, Marin, Mendocino, and Sonoma Counties.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
10.5-12.6

# sacramento, ca
Area covered.
Sacramento, Yolo, Amador, Placer, El Dorado, Nevada, and Sierra Counties, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
17.5-20.0

# san diego county, ca
Area covered.
San Diego County, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
24.0-30.0

# san francisco city and county, ca
Area covered.
City and County of San Francisco, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Electricians
17.0
Plumbers, pipefitters and steamfitters
14.0
Structural metal workers
20.0
Sheet metal workers
19.0
Asbestos workers
40.0

# san mateo county, ca
Area covered.
San Mateo County, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
12.0-14.0

# santa clara county, ca
Area covered.
Santa Clara County, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
18.0-21.7

# santa cruz county, ca
Area covered.
Santa Cruz County, CA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
17.0-20.4

# Region X

# alaska
Area covered.
State of Alaska.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Asbestos workers
26.4-28.0
Carpenters
25.7-28.0
Electricians
25.7-28.0
Ironworkers
25.7-28.0
Operating engineers
26.1-28.0
Painters
25.8-28.0
Pile drivers
25.1-28.0
Plumbers and steamfitters
25.4-28.0
Roofers
27.6-28.0
Sheetmetal workers
25.6-28.0
Teamsters
25.6-28.0
All other
26.1-28.1

# pasco, wa
Area covered.
The area of jurisdiction of the Southeastern Washington Building
Construction Trades Council as follows: all of Benton, Franklin, and Walla Walla Counties, Grant County to Highway 2 and the southwest corner of Adams County, WA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
Boilermakers
12.5-15.0
Bricklayers
11.0-13.5
Carpenters
9.8-12.3
Cement finishers
11.5-14.0
Electricians
10.0-12.5
Ironworkers
10.0-12.5
Operating engineers
10.2-12.7
Painters
10.0-12.5
Plumbers and fitters
.9-12.4
Sheetmetal workers
10.8-13.3
Laborers
9.5-13.3
All other
10.0-12.5

# portland, or
Area covered
—Multnomah, Clackamas, and Washington Counties, OR.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
5.5-6.5

# seattle, wa
Area covered
—King County, WA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
8.8-11.5

# spokane, wa
Area covered
—Washington Counties: Spokane, Whitman, Lincoln, Adams, Stevens, Pend Oreille, Columbia, Garfield, Asotin, Ferry, Okanogan, Chelan, Douglas and Grant (north of Highway 2), and in connection with Indian employment, parts of any other counties included in reservations incorporating portions of the above area; Idaho: Boundary, Bonner, Kootenai, Shoshone, Benewah, Latah, Clearwater, Nez Perce, Lewis, and Idaho, and in connection with Indian employment, any other territory included in reservations, part of which are in the above counties.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
(
1
)
1
2.0 and above.

# tacoma, wa
Area covered
—Pierce, Thurston, Mason, Lewis, Grays Harbor, and Pacific Counties, WA.
Goals and Timetables
[In percent]
Timetable
Trade
Goal
Until further notice
All
12.2-15.0
[43 FR 58357, Dec. 14, 1978]
Pt. 1901, Subpt. E, Exh. E

# Exhibit E to Subpart E of Part 1901—List of Regional Offices, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), U.S. Department of Labor (USDL)
Region I (ME, NH, VT, MA, RI, CT)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, JFK Building, Room 1612-C, Government Center, Boston, MA 12203, (617) 223-4232.
Region II (NY, NJ, PR, VI)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, 1515 Broadway, Room 3306, New York, NY 10036, (212) 662-5563.
Region III (PA, MD, DE, VA, WV, DC)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, Gateway Building, Room 15434, 3535 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, (215) 596-1213.
Region IV (NC, SC, KY, TN, MS, AL, GA, FL)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, 1371 Peachtree Street, NE, Room 729, Atlanta, GA 30309, (402) 881-4211).
Region V (OH, IN, MI, IL, WI, MN)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, New Federal Building, 16th Floor, 2340 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, (312) 353-8887.
Region VI (LA, AR, OK, TX, NM)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP), 555 Griffin Square Building, Room 506, Dallas, TX 75202, (214) 767-4771.
Region VII (MO, IA, NE, KS)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP Regional Administrator, Federal Office Building, Room 2000, 911 Walnut Street, Kansas City, MO 64106, (816) 374-5384.
Region VIII (ND, SD, MT, WY, CO, UT)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, 14431 Federal Office Building, 1961 Stout Street, Denver, CO 80202, (303) 837-5011.
Region IX (CA, NV, AZ, HI, GU)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, Federal Office Building, Room 10341, 450 Golden Gate, San Francisco, CA 94102, (415) 556-3597.
Region X (WA, OR, ID)
Associate Regional Administrator, USDL/OFCCP, Federal Office Building, 909 First Avenue, Room 4095, Seattle, WA 98174, (206) 442-4508.
[44 FR 24852, Apr. 27, 1979]

# Subpart F—Procedures for the Protection of Historical and Archeological Properties

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 470; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 42 U.S.C. 2942; 5 U.S.C. 301; sec. 10, Pub. L. 93-357, 88 Stat. 392; delegation of authority by Sec. of Agri., 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Asst. Sec. for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70; delegations of authority by Dir., OEO, 29 FR 14764, 33 FR 9850.

# Source:
42 FR 62141, Dec. 9, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1901.251
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 policies, procedures, and guidelines for compliance with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (Pub. L. 89-665), the Reservoir Salvage Act of 1960 (Pub. L. 86-523), as amended May 24, 1974, by the Archeologic and Historic Preservation Act (Pub. L. 93-291), and section 1(3) of Executive Order 11593. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
[42 FR 62141, Dec. 9, 1977, as amended at 72 FR 64121, Nov. 15, 2007]
§ 1901.252
Policy.
(a) The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 recognizes that significant scientific, prehistorical, historical and archeological (HA) resources are an important part of our National Heritage.
(b) The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will consult with appropriate Federal, State, and local Agencies; other organizations; the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) and individuals to assess the impact of any proposed FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 undertaking on properties having historical or archeological significance in order to avoid or mitigate any adverse effects on the properties.
(c) The procedures in this subpart have been developed in accordance with section 1(3) of Executive Order 111593.
§ 1901.253
Definitions.
(a)
Undertaking
means any new or continuing projects or program activities supported in whole or in part through FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 contracts, grants, subsidies, loans, or other forms of funding assistance. This does not include any actual construction by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
(b)
National Historic Preservation Act. The National Register
means the National Register of Historic Places, which is a register of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects, significant in American history, architecture, archeology, and culture maintained by the Secretary of the Interior under the authority of section 2(b) of the Historic Sites Act of 1935 and section 101(a)(1) of the National Preservation Act. The National Register is published in its entirety in the
Federal Register
each year in February. Addenda are published on the first Tuesday of each month.
(c)
National Register Property
means a district, site, building, structure, or object included in the National Register.
(d)
Property eligible for inclusion in the National Register
means any district, site, building, structure, or object which the Secretary of the Interior determines is likely to meet the National Register criteria.
(e)
State Historic Preservation Officer
(SHPO) means the official within each State, designated by the Governor at the request of the Secretary of the Interior, to administer the National Register and historic preservation grants program and to coordinate preservation planning within the State.
(f)
Criteria of effect
means when any condition of an undertaking causes or may cause any change, beneficial or adverse, in the scientific, historical, architectural, archeological, or cultural character of a National Register property that qualifies the property under the National Register criteria.
(g)
Historical and archeological assessment
means a determination by the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director using the criteria of effect as a guide, as to whether a proposed undertaking may have an effect upon any properties located within the project area which are included or eligible for inclusion in the National Register.
(h)
National Register criteria
means the following criteria established by the Secretary of the Interior for use in evaluating and determining the eligibility of properties for listing in the National Register: The quality of significance in American History, Architecture, Archeology, and the culture is present in districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects of State and local importance, that possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, and association; and
(1) That are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history; or
(2) That are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
(3) That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
(4) That have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history.
(i)
FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official
means the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 County Supervisor, the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director or his designated representative.
(j)
Project area
means those geographical or legally defined areas directly under or to be under the applicants control that are affected by the undertaking such as building sites, easements, rights-of-way, leasehold interests and those areas which are directly and significantly impacted by the undertaking.
(k)
Advisory council
means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, Suite 430, 1522 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20005, created by title II of
Pub. L. 89-665 and charged with the responsibility of advising the President, Congress, and others on matters relating to historic preservation.
(l)
HA
as used in this regulation is an abbreviation of the term “scientific, prehistorical, historical, and archeological.”
§ 1901.254
Scope.
FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will evaluate all undertakings for possible HA significance. This subpart covers the following types of undertakings:
(a)
Undertakings requiring a historical and archeological assessment.
Although the following undertakings are presumed to involve nonfederally owned lands, they may have an effect on properties having HA significance and, therefore, will require a historical and archeological assessment:
(1) Loans and grants for the development of business and industry including guaranteed loans.
(2) Loans and grants for multiple family housing projects of 25 or more dwelling units.
(3) Subdivision plans submitted for approval having 25 or more building sites.
(4) Loans and grants in rural areas to construct, enlarge, extend, or otherwise improve:
(i) Community water, sanitary sewage, solid waste disposal, and storm waste water disposal systems.
(ii) Other essential community facilities such as fire and rescue, health, safety, public buildings, schools, transportation, traffic, and law enforcement.
(5) Loans to develop community irrigation, drainage, and other soil and water conservation and use facilities.
(6) Loans to acquire and develop grazing land for livestock of an association of members.
(7) Loans in areas designated by the Soil Conservation Service (SCS), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), to conserve and develop natural resources and to contribute to economic improvement of the area.
(8) Loans to protect and develop land and water resources in small watersheds.
(9) Loans to permit Indian tribes to buy land within their reservations.
(b)
Undertakings presumed not to require a historical and archeological assessment.
The following undertakings are generally presumed to involve nonfederally owned lands and not to have an effect on properties of historical and archeological value and will therefore not usually require a historical and archeological assessment. However, when the State Director or County Supervisor finds or has had communication or obtains information from a recognized historical and archeological authority that a specific undertaking may have an effect on a property included or eligible for inclusion in the National Register, a historical and archeological assessment will be made.
(1) Loans to farmers and ranchers in rural areas for the purchase, development, and operation of farms and ranches.
(2) Loans to individual families in rural areas for the purchase, construction, or improvement of single family residences.
(3) Loans and grants for multiple family housing projects of not more than 24 family dwelling units.
(4) Subdivision plans submitted for approval having 24 or less building sites.
(5) Loans to farmers, ranchers, and other rural residents to develop land, water, and other related resources for increased production of food and other crops, improved pastures, feed crops, water facilities for livestock, and improved habitats for fish and wildlife.
(6) Emergency and disaster loans to farmers, ranchers and other rural residents in declared or designated areas as a result of a major or national disaster.
§ 1901.255
Historical and archeological assessments.
(a) The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official, normally the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 County Supervisor, who receives a preapplication or application for loan or grant assistance on an undertaking that may have an effect on HA properties will, as part of the process, take the following actions:
(1) Carefully review the State supplements issued by the State Director pursuant to § 1901.262(a) to determine whether there are any properties within the project area that appear in the National Register.
(2) Document the following:
(i) A brief narrative report of the findings and conclusions of an on-site reconnaissance of the project area.
(ii) Any “in-house” knowledge of known or suspected HA sites in the project area.
(3) Submit the information outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director as part of the preapplication or application.
(b) Upon receipt of the preapplication/application the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director will, as a concurrent part of the preapplication/application review, prepare a historical and archeological assessment of the undertaking. In making the assessment the State Director will consider information from the following sources:
(1) State and Regional Clearinghouse comments.
(2) Information submitted by the County Supervisor pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3) Factual comments or recommendations of the SHPO or other responsible Federal, State, or local officials.
(4) Any other reliable information concerning properties in the project area having HA significance.
(c) Upon completion of the preapplication or application review, the State Director will take the following actions:
(1) When his assessment indicates that no properties of HA significance will be effected by the proposed undertaking, he will proceed with processing of the preapplication or application.
(2) When his assessment indicates that there are properties included in the National Register that may be effected by the proposed undertaking, he will in consultation with the SHPO, the applicant and its representatives, and other appropriate historical and archeological authorities plan appropriate measures to avoid or mitigate any adverse effects. He will also notify the Advisory Council and Secretary of the Interior of the proposed undertaking, and of its possible effect on the National Register properties and provide them with a copy of the proposed plan in order to afford them a reasonable opportunity for comment. Comments that are received with 45 calendar days of notification in accordance with the requirements for comment as outlined in section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, will be considered in further development of the undertaking.
(3) When his assessment indicates that there are properties thay may be eligible for inclusion in the National Register, based on his application of the National Register criteria, he will request the Regional Director of the National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, Attention: Interagency Archeological Services, in writing, to cause a survey of the project area to be made to determine the significance of the properties in accordance with section 3(b) of Pub. L. 93-291. The State Director's letter to the Regional Director should request a response within 45 calendar days as to whether the National Park Service intends to cause a survey to be made, declines to undertake a survey, or that a survey is not warranted based on available data. The addresses of the Regional Offices of the National Park Service are listed in exhibit A of this subpart. If no response is received within the 45-day period, the State Director will proceed as outlined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(4) The State Director will cooperate fully with the National Park Service in the conduct of a survey should one be undertaken to assure that:
(i) The professional archeologist/historian conducting the survey provides his written opinion as to the eligibility of any identified properties for inclusion in the National Register.
(ii) When the professional archeologist/historian recommends recovery, protection, or preservation of identified properties, the National Park Service is requested to undertake this project.
(5) When the survey made in paragraph (c)(3) of this section does not
identify any historical and archeological properties that may be eligible for inclusion in the National Register, or the National Park Service is not going to undertake activity pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, the State Director, after consultation with the SHPO and the National Park Service, will document the findings and proceed with processing of the application.
(6) When the survey identifies properties that may be eligible for inclusion in the National Register, the State Director will request the SHPO to proceed with the nomination of such properties. The State Director will then proceed as outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for any properties accepted for inclusion in the National Register.
(7) When the National Park Service declines to cause a survey to be made or determines that one is not warranted, the State Director will document such facts and proceed with processing of the application.
§§ 1901.256-1901.258
[Reserved]
§ 1901.259
Actions to be taken when archeological properties are discovered during construction.
(a) When properties of significant HA value are discovered during construction, the State Director will immediately consult with the applicant, the SHPO and the Regional Director of the National Park Service to determine whether there is sufficient factual evidence to warrant a decision to stop construction and undertake detailed survey and recovery.
(b) When the consultations in paragraph (a) of this section result in a determination by the National Park Service to request the applicant to stop construction, such stop action should be taken so that the Park Service can initiate measures for immediate recovery within 60 days after notification of a discovery.
(c) When the consultations in paragraph (a) of this section do not result in a determination by the National Park Service to stop construction and to undertake a survey and recovery, construction should be permitted to proceed with caution. In the event that the National Park Service determines that recovery is necessary, the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 applicant/borrower and the Park Service should determine that the consent of all persons, associations, or public entities having legal interests in the property involved has been secured. Also, the applicant should be informed that the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to compensate any person, association, or public entity damaged as a result of delay in construction or as a result of the temporary loss of the use of public or any nonfederally owned land.
(d) No survey or recovery work will be required which in the determination of the State Director would seriously impede FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 actions in providing assistance where the State Director determines that immediate action is required to avoid loss or damage of life or property. Nevertheless, appropriate measures will be taken to the extent practical to preserve, protect, or mitigate any damage to properties having HA significance.
§ 1901.260
Coordination with other agencies.
(a) When other Agencies are directly involved in any undertaking that requires a historical and archeological assessment, the State Director will contact the Agencies concerned to determine if a joint assessment will be prepared and whether a single lead Agency will assume primary responsibility for preparing the assessment.
(b) When a lead Agency is agreed upon other than FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will provide that Agency with information about its respective areas of responsibility. Assessments will indicate Agency participation and concurrence.
(c) When FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 program activities are planned that primarily supplement those of the SCS, USDA, such as watershed projects, resource conservation and development measures, and irrigation and drainage projects, the SCS will be designated as the lead Agency.
§ 1901.261
[Reserved]
§ 1901.262
State supplement.
(a) The State Director shall be responsible for preparing a list of all properties included in the National Register in his area of jurisdiction and issuing such list as a part of a State supplement. Such a list will be updated as needed to reflect changes in the National Register.
(b) State Directors may also supplement this subpart and its exhibit as appropriate to meet State and local laws and regulations.
Pt. 1901, Subpt. F, Exh. A

# Exhibit A to Subpart F of Part 1901—National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior Regional Offices
Contact should be made to: Chief, Interagency Archeological Services Division, Office of Archeological and Historic Preservation, National Park Service.
The three Regional Offices are:
San Francisco Office:
Old Post Office Building, Mission and 7th Streets, Post Office Box 5700, San Francisco, Calif. 94104.
States covered:
Arizona, Utah, Idaho, and West, including Hawaii and Alaska. Attention: Mr. Garland Gordon. Telephone: 415-556-7711.
Denver Office:
1978 South Garrison Street, Denver, Colo. 80225.
States covered:
Wisconsin, Iowa, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas and West to San Francisco area. Attention: Mr. Jack R. Rudy. Telephone: 303-234-2560.
Atlanta Office:
730 Peachtree Street, Atlanta, Ga. 30308.
States covered:
All others East of Denver area. Attention: Mr. Wilford Susted. Telephone: 404-526-2611.
Subparts G-J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Certificates of Beneficial Ownership and Insured Notes

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; delegation of authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 7 CFR 2.23; delegation of authority by the Assistant Secretary for Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.70.

# Source:
41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1901.501
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for Rural Development certificates of beneficial ownership and insured notes. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 72 FR 64121, Nov. 15, 2007; 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.502
Policy.
It is the current policy to sell all certificates of beneficial ownership to the Federal Financing Bank for financing activities from the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund and the Rural Development Insurance Fund. Sales from the Rural Housing Insurance Fund will be made to the Federal Financing Bank to the extent necessary to service certificates of beneficial ownership held by the Federal Financing Bank. Sales in excess of those needed for servicing requirements will be made to the public. In addition to sales, this subpart provides policy for the servicing of outstanding certificates of beneficial ownership, insurance contracts, and insured notes held by investors.
[51 FR 24301, July 3, 1986]
§ 1901.503
Definitions.
(a) As used in §§ 1901.505, 1901.507, 1901.508 and 1901.509 the following definitions will apply:
(1)
Announcement of sale.
Any notice of terms and conditions respecting a sale of certificates.
(2)
Certificate.
A certificate of beneficial ownership issued by Rural Development under this subpart.
(3)
Director, Finance Office.
The Director or the Insured Loan Officer of the Finance Office of Rural Development.
(4)
Rural Development.
The United States acting through the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Utilities Service, or the Rural Business-Cooperative Service or their successor agencies.
(5)
Finance Office.
The office which maintains the Rural Development finance records. It is located at 1520 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103. (Phone: 314-425-4400)
(6)
Fixed period.
Any time interval (preceding an option period) during which the insured holder is not entitled
to require Rural Development to purchase the insured note, as specified in the insurance agreement.
(7)
Insurance agreement.
The entire contract evidencing and setting forth the terms and conditions of Rural Development insurance of the payment for the insured note. The insurance agreement with respect to any particular loan may be evidenced by Form RD 440-5, “Insurance Endorsement (Insured Loan),” RD 440-30, “Insurance Endorsement (Insure Loans),” or any other form or forms prescribed by the National Office and executed by an authorized official of Rural Development. It may include such provisions as, for example, an agreement of Rural Development to purchase or repurchase the loan, or to make supplementary payments from the insurance fund.
(8)
Insurance fund.
The Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund authorized by section 309 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, the Rural Development Insurance Fund authorized by section 309A of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, or the Rural Housing Insurance Fund authorized by section 517 of title V of the Housing Act of 1949.
(9)
Insured holder.
The current owner of an insured note other than Rural Development, according to the records of Rural Development as insurer of the note.
(10)
Insured note.
Any promissory note or bond evidencing an insured loan regardless of whether it is held by Rural Development in the insurance fund, by a private holder, or by Rural Development as trustee.
(11)
Loan.
Loans made and held in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, Rural Development Insurance Fund, or the Rural Housing Insurance Fund.
(12)
National Office.
The Administrator or other authorized officer of Rural Development in Washington, DC.
(13)
Option period.
Any period during which the insured holder has the optional right to require Rural Development to purchase the insured note, as specified in the insurance agreement.
(14)
Par value.
The total amount to which the insured holder is entitled under the terms of the insurance agreement.
(15)
Private buyer.
A buyer of an insured note other than Rural Development.
(16)
Private holder.
An insured holder other than Rural Development.
(17)
Repurchase agreement.
A provision in the insurance agreement obligating Rural Development to buy the insured note at the option of the holders.
(18)
Sale, or seller, and buyer.
The transfer of ownership (including possession or the right of possession), the transferor, and the transferee respectively.
(19)
State Director.
The State Director of Rural Development for the State in which is located the real estate improved, purchased, or refinanced with the loan evidenced by the insured note.
(b) As used in § 1901.506 the following definitions will apply:
(1)
Reserve bank.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York (and any other Federal Reserve Bank which agrees to issue securities in book-entry form) as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development and, when indicated, acting in its individual capacity.
(2)
Rural Development security.
A certificate representing beneficial ownership of notes, bonds, debentures, or other similar obligations held by Rural Development under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act and title V of the Housing Act of 1949, issued in the form of a definitive Rural Development security or a book-entry Rural Development security.
(3)
Definitive Rural Development security.
A Rural Development security in engraved on printed form.
(4)
Book-entry Rural Development security.
A Rural Development security in the form of an entry made as prescribed in this subpart on the records of a Reserve bank.
(5)
Pledge.
A pledge of, or any other security interest in, Rural Development securities as collateral for loans or advances, or to secure deposits of public moneys or the performance of an obligation.
(6)
Date of call.
The date fixed in the official notice of call published in the
Federal Register
on which Rural Development will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms.
(7)
Member bank.
Any national bank, state bank, or bank or trust company which is a member of a Reserve bank.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.504
Authorities and responsibilities.
The Administrator will approve all methods of Rural Development financing and major changes in existing methods. The Director, Finance Office, is responsible for servicing of all certificates of beneficial ownership and insured notes issued by the Finance Office, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the servicing of insurance contracts, and the Federal Reserve banks for certificates of beneficial ownership for which the Reserve banks are Rural Development's fiscal agents.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.505
Certificates of beneficial ownership in Rural Development loans.
(a)
Special trust of loans
—(1)
Establishment of special trusts.
From time to Rural Development will place in special trusts unmature loans evidenced by notes or other instruments. Loans may be placed into or removed from a special trust, but there will always be maintained in such trusts loans on which the unpaid amount is at least equal to the face value of the outstanding unmature certificates evidencing beneficial ownership in such special trust as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Beneficial ownership of special trusts.
To permit interested persons to acquire a beneficial ownership of loans comprising a special trust established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Rural Development will sell certificates which will evidence beneficial ownership of an interest in the special trust to the extent of the face value of such certificates. Rural Development will own an interest in special trusts equal to the amount by which the unpaid principal amount of loans comprising the trusts exceeds the face value of all outstanding certificates evidencing beneficial ownership in such trusts.
(b)
Sale of certificates.
Rural Development will offer certificates for sale from time to time on such terms and conditions it may deem appropriate. Sales made by the Finance Office shall be made by its Director. No sale in excess of $1 million will be made to any one investor without prior approval of the Associate Administrator or his designee. The terms and limitations of sales are subject to change from time to time, and may be obtained from the Finance Office.
(1)
Form of certificates.
The certificates may be interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. The certificates may be made payable to the bearer or registered holder thereof, and will be negotiable. The certificates will be issued in denominations specified in the invitations for bid or other announcement of sale.
(2)
Issue date and maturity date of certificates.
The certificates will be issued on such dates and mature on such dates as specified in the invitation for bids or other announcement of sale. Such dates will appear on the face of the certificates.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.506
Book-entry procedure for Rural Development securities—issuance and redemption of certificate by Reserve bank.
(a)
Authority of Reserve bank.
Each Reserve bank is hereby authorized in accordance with the provisions of this subpart to:
(1) Issue book-entry Rural Development securities by means of entries on its records which shall include the name of the depositor, the amount, the securities title (or series) and maturity date.
(2) Effect conversions between book-entry Rural Development securities and definitive Rural Development securities.
(3) Otherwise service and maintain book-entry Rural Development securities.
(4) Issue a confirmation of transaction in the form of a written advice (serially numbered or otherwise) which specifies the amount and description of any securities (that is, the securities title (or series) and the maturity date)
sold or transferred and the date of the transaction.
(b)
Scope and effect of book-entry procedure.
(1) A Reserve bank as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development may apply the book-entry procedure provided for in this subpart to any Rural Development securities which have been or are hereafter deposited for any purpose in accounts with it in its individual capacity under terms and conditions which indicate that the Reserve bank will continue to maintain such deposit accounts in its individual capacity, notwithstanding application of the book-entry procedure to such securities. This paragraph shall be applicable but not limited to Rural Development securities deposited:
(i) As collateral pledged to a Reserve bank (in its individual capacity) for advances by it.
(ii) By a member bank for its sole account.
(iii) By a member bank held for the account of its customers.
(iv) In connection with deposits in a member bank of funds of States, Municipalities, or other political subdivisions.
(v) In connection with the performance of an obligation or duty under Federal, State, Municipal, or local law, or judgments or decrees of courts.
(2) The application of the book-entry procedure under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not detract from or adversely affect the relationships that would otherwise exist between a Reserve bank in its individual capacity and its depositors concerning any deposit under this paragraph. Whenever the book-entry procedure is applied to such Rural Development securities, the Reserve bank is authorized to take all action necessary in respect of the book-entry procedure to enable such Reserve bank in its individual capacity to perform its obligation as depositary with respect to such Rural Development securities.
(3) A Reserve bank as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development may apply the book-entry procedure to Rural Development securities deposited as collateral pledged to the United States under Treasury Department Circular Nos. 92 and 176, both as revised and amended, and may apply the book-entry procedure, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to any other Rural Development securities deposited with a Reserve bank as fiscal agent of the United States.
(4) Any person having an interest in Rural Development securities which are deposited with a Reserve bank (in either its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) for any purpose shall be deemed to have consented to their conversion to book-entry Rural Development securities pursuant to the provisions of this subpart and in the manner and under the procedure prescribed by the Reserve bank.
(5) No deposits shall be accepted under this section on or after the date of maturity or call of Rural Development securities.
(c)
Transfer or pledge.
(1) A transfer or pledge of book-entry Rural Development securities to a Reserve bank (in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States), or to the United States, or to any transferee or pledgee eligible to maintain an appropriate book-entry account in its name with a Reserve bank under this subpart is effected and perfected, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, by a Reserve bank making an appropriate entry in its records of the securities transferred or pledged. The making of such an entry in the records of a Reserve bank shall:
(i) Have the effect of a delivery in bearer form of definitive Rural Development securities.
(ii) Have the effect of a taking of delivery by the transferee or pledgee.
(iii) Constitute the transferee or pledgee a holder.
(iv) If a pledge, effect a perfected security interest therein in favor of the pledgee. A transfer or pledge of book-entry Rural Development securities effected under this paragraph shall have priority over any transfer, pledge, or other interest, theretofore or thereafter effected or perfected under paragraph (c)(2) of this section or any other manner.
(2) A transfer or pledge of transferable Rural Development securities, or
any interest therein, which is maintained by a Reserve bank (in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) in a book-entry account under this subpart, including securities in book-entry form under § 1901.506(b)(1)(iii) is effected, and a pledge is perfected by any means that would be effective under applicable law to effect a transfer or to effect and perfect a pledge of Rural Development securities, or any interest therein, if the securities were maintained by the Reserve bank in bearer definitive form. For purposes of transfer or pledge hereunder, book-entry Rural Development securities maintained by a Reserve bank shall, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, be deemed to be maintained in bearer definitive form. A Reserve bank maintaining book-entry Rural Development securities, either in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States, is not a bailee for the purposes of notification of pledges of these securities under this paragraph, or a third person in possession for the purposes of acknowledgment of transfers thereof under this paragraph. Where transferable Rural Development securities are recorded on the books of a depositary (a bank, banking institution, financial firm, or similar party, which regularly accepts in the course of its business Rural Development securities as a custodial service for customers, and maintains accounts in the names of such customers reflecting ownership of or interest in such securities) for account of the pledgor or transferor thereof and such securities are on deposit with a Reserve bank in a book-entry account hereunder, such depositary shall, for purposes of perfecting a pledge of such securities or effecting delivery of such securities to a purchaser under applicable provisions of law, be the bailee to which notification of the pledge of the securities may be given or the third person in possession from which acknowledgment of the holding of the securities for the purchaser may be obtained. A Reserve bank will not accept notice or advice of a transfer or pledge effected or perfected under this paragraph and any such notice or advice shall have no effect. A Reserve bank may continue to deal with its depositor in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, notwithstanding any transfer or pledge effected or perfected under this paragraph.
(3) No filing or recording with a public recording office or officer shall be necessary or effective with respect to any transfer or pledge of book-entry Rural Development securities or any interest therein.
(4) A Reserve bank shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions, convert book-entry Rural Development securities into definitive Rural Development securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions. No such conversion shall affect existing interest in such Rural Development securities.
(5) A transfer of book-entry Rural Development securities within a Federal Reserve Bank shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Reserve bank not inconsistent with this subpart. The transfer of book-entry Rural Development securities by a Reserve bank may be made through a telegraphic transfer procedure.
(6) All requests for transfer or withdrawal must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
(d)
Withdrawal of Rural Development securities.
(1) A depositor of book-entry Rural Development securities may withdraw them from a Reserve bank by requesting delivery of like definitive Rural Development securities to itself or on its order to a transferee.
(2) Rural Developmentsecurities which are actually to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued in bearer or registered form.
(e)
Delivery of Rural Development securities.
A Reserve bank which has received Rural Development securities and effected pledges, made entries regarding them, or transferred or delivered them according to the instructions of its depositor is not liable for conversion or for participation in breach of fiduciary duty even though the depositor had no right to dispose of or take other action in respect of the securities. A Reserve bank shall be fully discharged of its obligations under this subpart by the delivery of Rural Development securities in definitive form to its depositor or upon the
order of such depositor. Customers of a member bank or other depositary (other than a Reserve bank) may obtain Rural Development securities in definitive form only by causing the depositor of the Reserve bank to order the withdrawal thereof from the Reserve bank.
(f)
Registered securities.
(1) No formal assignment shall be required for the conversion to book-entry Rural Development securities of registered Rural Development securities held by a Reserve bank (in either its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) on the effective date of this subpart for any purpose specified in § 1901.506(b)(1). Registered Rural Development securities deposited thereafter with a Reserve bank for any purpose specified in § 1901.506(b) shall be assigned for conversion to book-entry Rural Development securities.
(2) The assignment which shall be executed in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of 31 CFR part 306, so far as applicable, shall be to Federal Reserve Bank of ________, as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of the Rural Development, United States Department of Agriculture, for conversion to book-entry Rural Development securities.
(g)
Servicing book-entry Rural Development securities, payment of interest, payment at maturity or upon call.
Interest becoming due on book-entry Rural Development securities shall be charged to the general account of the Treasurer of the United States on the interest due date and remitted or credited in accordance with the depositor's instructions. Such securities shall be redeemed and charged to the same account on the date of maturity or call, and the redemption proceeds, principal, and interest shall be disposed of in accordance with the depositor's instructions.
(h)
Issuance and redemption.
(1) In those instances where the Reserve bank is acting as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development, the following subparts of Treasury Department Circular No. 300 (31 CFR part 306), so far as applicable, shall apply to such certificates.
(i) Subpart B, Registration.
(ii) Subpart C, Transfers, Exchanges and Reissues.
(iii) Subpart D, Redemption or Payment.
(iv) Subpart E, Interest.
(v) Subpart G, Assignments of Registered Securities—General.
(vi) Subpart F, Assignments by or in Behalf of Individuals.
(vii) Subpart H, Assignments in Behalf of Estates of Deceased Owners.
(viii) Subpart I, Assignments by or in Behalf of Trustees and Similar Fiduciaries.
(ix) Subpart J, Assignments in Behalf of Private or Public Organizations.
(x) Subpart K, Attorneys in Fact.
(xi) Subpart L, Transfer Through Judicial Proceedings.
(xii) Subpart M, Requests for Suspension of Transactions.
(xiii) Subpart N, Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, or Defacement of Securities.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.507
Certificates of beneficial ownership by the Rural Development Finance Office.
(a)
Orders and payment.
Orders for investment in certificates may be placed with the Finance Office by mail, telephone, or in person. Payment for purchase of certificates may be made by a wire transfer to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis for credit to the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, by a certified check or bank draft payable to the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354. The rate of interest paid on the certificate will be the rate in effect on the date the Finance Office receives the payment.
(b)
Registration.
(1) The registration used must express the actual ownership of a certificate and may not restrict the authority of the owner to dispose of it in any manner. Rural Development reserves the right to treat the registration as conclusive ownership. Request for registration must be clear, accurate, and complete, and include the appropriate taxpayer identifying number or social security number.
(2) The registration of all certificates owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and, in case of fiduciary, the description of the fiduciary capacity. Individual owners should be designated by the names by which they are ordinarily known or under which they do business, preferably including at least one full given name. The name of an individual may be preceded by an applicable title, as, for example “Mrs.”, “Mr.”, “Miss”, “Ms.”, “Dr.”, or “Rev.”, or followed by a designation such as “M.D.”, “D.D.”, “Sr.”, or “Jr.”, Any other similar suffix should be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. The address should include, where appropriate, the name and street, route, or any other location feature, and zip code.
(3) If an erroneously inscribed certificate is received, it should not be altered in any respect. Rural Development should be given full particulars about the error and asked to furnish instructions.
(c)
Transfers and exchanges—closed periods
—(1)
General.
Transfer of registered certificates should be made by assignment in accordance with this section. Registered securities are eligible for denominational exchange. Specific instructions for issuance and delivery of new certificates signed by the owner or the owner's authorized representative must accompany the certificates presented. Certificates presented for transfer must be received by Rural Development not less than 1 full month before the date on which they mature. Any certificates so presented which are received too late to comply with this provision will be accepted for payment only.
(2)
Closing of transfer books.
The transfer books are closed for 1 full month preceding interest payment dates. If the date set for closing falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the books will be closed as of the close of business on the last business day preceding that date. The books are reopened on the first business day following the date on which interest falls due. Registered certificates which have not matured, or have been submitted for transfer and are received when the books are closed for that certificate, will be processed on or after the date such books are reopened. If certificates are received for transfer when the books are closed for payment of final interest at maturity, the following action will be taken in the absence of different instructions:
(i) Payment of final interest will be made to the registered owner of record on the date the books were closed.
(ii) Payment of principal will be made to the assignee under a proper assignment of the certificate.
(d)
Redemption or payment
—(1)
General.
Certificates are payable in regular course of business at maturity. Rural Development may provide for the exchange of maturing certificates. The registered certificates should be presented and surrendered for redemption at the Rural Development Finance Office. No assignments or evidence in support of them will be required by or on behalf of the registered owner or assignee for redemption for his or its account, or for redemption-exchange if the new certificates are to be registered in exactly the same names and forms as in the registrations or assignments of the certificates surrendered.
(2)
Redemption at maturity.
Registered certificates presented and surrendered for redemption at maturity need not be assigned unless the owner desires that payment be made to some other person. Should the owner so desire assignments should be made to the “ Rural Development for redemption for the account of (inserting name and address of person to whom payment is to be made).” Specific instructions for the issuance and delivery of the redemption check signed by the owner or the owner's authorized representative must accompany the certificates unless included in the assignment. Payment of the principal and interest will be made by a check drawn on the Treasurer of the United States to the order of the person entitled and mailed in accordance with the instructions received. If instructions are not received concerning interest, interest will be paid to the registered owner.
(3)
Interest.
The interest on Rural Development certificates accrues and is
payable annually. A full interest period does not include the day on which the last preceding interest became due, but does include the day on which the next succeeding interest payment is due. Certificates will cease to bear interest on the date of their maturity. The interest on registered certificates is payable by checks drawn on the Treasurer of the United States to the order of the registered owners, except as otherwise provided in this section. Rural Development prepares the interest checks in advance of the interest payment date and ordinarily mails them in time to reach the addressees on that date. Interest on a registered certificate which has not matured and which is presented for any transaction when the books for that certificate are closed will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record. On receipt of notice of the death or incompetency of an individual named as registered owner, a change in the name or in the status of a partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association, the removal, resignation, succession, or death of a fiduciary or trustee, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending receipt and approval of evidence showing who is entitled to receive the interest checks. If the inscriptions on certificates do not clearly identify the owners, delivery of interest checks may be withheld pending reissue of the certificates in the correct registration, except as provided in this section. The final installment of interest will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record on presentation and surrender of the certificate for redemption. To assure timely delivery of interest checks, owners should promptly notify Rural Development of any change of address.
(e)
Assignments.
Assignments of certificates should be executed by the owner or the owner's authorized representative in the presence of an officer authorized to certify assignments. Registered certificates may be assigned to a specified transferee or to Rural Development for redemption or for exchange for other certificates offered at maturity. Assignments to “United States, Rural Development,” “Farmers Home Administration for Transfer,” or “Rural Development for Exchange” will not be accepted unless supplemented by specific instructions by or in behalf of the owner. If an alteration or erasure has been made in an assignment, a new assignment from the assignor should be obtained. Otherwise, an affidavit or explanation by the person responsible for the alteration or erasure should be submitted for consideration.
(f)
Death of certificate holder.
The Finance Office should be notified of the death of the registered owner of a certificate. The following documents should be forwarded with the notice if available.
(1) A certified copy of the death certificate.
(2) A certified copy of the court order appointing the Administrator or Executor (include the mailing address of the Administrator or Executor). The Finance Office will notify the person submitting such notice and/or documentation if any other records or documents are needed. Legal opinions and advice will be obtained by the Finance Office as needed from the Regional Attorney. After all legal requirements are met, the certificate should be reissued in the name of the current owner.
(g)
Replacement.
Lost, stolen, destroyed, or mutilated certificates will be replaced by the Finance Office on the registered owner's compliance with the requirements of § 1901.509.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.508
Servicing of insured notes outstanding with investors.
The Director, or the insured loan officer of the Finance Office, is authorized in connection with the sale of any insured note to execute required documents on behalf of Rural Development and to take other appropriate action, including, but not limited to, acknowledging notice of sale of an insured note, or requiring an insured holder to sell an insured note to Rural Development in connection with any voluntary conveyance or foreclosure, or transfer related to liquidation of the borrower's account or any other servicing action so related. Upon recommendation by the State Director that purchase of an insured note is necessary for any servicing action not related to liquidation
of the borrower's account, authorization may be given by the National Office to request the Director, Finance Office, to require a holder to sell an insured note to Rural Development.
(a)
Assignments
—(1)
Effective date of assignment.
When an insured note is sold by a private holder to a private buyer, notice of such sale executed by the seller must be given to and acknowledged by Rural Development in order for the sale to be binding on Rural Development, as to Rural Development, the effective date of the sale will be the acknowledgment date specified in the acknowledgement of notice executed by Rural Development.
(2)
Assignment to Rural Development at request of Rural Development.
At any time Rural Development considers it necessary for proper servicing of the loan, Rural Development may require, in writing, a private holder to sell an insured note to Rural Development.
(3)
Assignment to Rural Development at option of holder.
A private holder at any time during the option period may require, in writing, Rural Development to purchase an insured note.
(4)
Price.
If Rural Development is the buyer of an insured note, the price will be the par value as of the effective date of the sale. In other cases, the price will be determined by an agreement between the parties.
(b)
Sale of insured notes by private holders to private buyers.
(1) On receipt of notice from a private holder of intention to assign an insured note, the Director, Finance Office, will send the holder:
(i) Form RD 471-7 “Notice and Acknowledgment of Sale of Insured or Guaranteed Loan.”
(ii) A statement of the unpaid principal. If requested the Director, Finance Office, will furnish a statement of account instead of or in addition to a statement of the unpaid principal.
(iii) Appropriate information on how to complete the assignment.
(2) If the Director, Finance Office, is informed that an insured note has been assigned and Rural Development is requested to recognize the assignment, the Director, Finance Office, will send the assignor Form RD 471-7, with directions for its execution.
(3) On receipt of Form RD 471-7 properly executed by the assignor, the Director, Finance Office, will complete and execute the acknowledgment section of the form. The Director, Finance Office, will retain the original of the form, have two facsimile copies made and send one to the assignor, and one to the assignee. For any correction or other change to be made in the record of the name or address of a private holder, or of a designated agent of a private holder, a request will be made to Rural Development in writing.
(4) As of the date of the acknowledgment, executed by the Director, Finance Office, on Form RD 471-7 the Director, Finance Office, will transfer the insured note from the assignor to the assignee as the insured holder on the records of Rural Development. The name and address of the assignee will be recorded by Rural Development exactly as they appear on Form RD 471-7.
(5) Payments transmitted by Rural Development on or after the acknowledgment date shown on Form RD 471-7 will be transmitted to the assignee. The Director, Finance Office, will give notice to the assignor and the assignee of any payments transmitted by Rural Development to the assignor before the acknowledgment date and after either the date of sale, or the date of the statement of account, whichever is earlier. However, Rural Development will not be liable for any failure to give such notice.
(c)
Assignment of insured notes to Rural Development
—(1)
Assignment at the request of the holder.
For assignment of an insured note to Rural Development during the option period at the request of the holder, the following procedure will apply:
(i) The holder will endorse the insured note as follows: “Pay to the order of the United States of America. Without recourse.” The holder will then deliver the endorsed note, together with the insurance agreement, to the Director, Finance Office.
(ii) On receipt of the endorsed note with the accompanying insurance agreement, the Director, Finance Office, will acknowledge receipt of the
note and process payment to the assignor of the par value of the note as of the date of the Treasury check.
(2)
Assignment at the request of Rural Development.
The procedure for assigning an insured note at the request of Rural Development will be the same as that prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that the Director, Finance Office, will send a written request to the holder requiring that the insured note be assigned to Rural Development and delivered to the Director, Finance Office, with the accompanying insurance agreement. The Director, Finance Office, will explain that the assignment is necessary to enable Rural Development to service the account properly and will give the holder all necessary information as to the manner of making the assignment and the amount to be paid by Rural Development.
(d)
Replacement of called or fully paid notes.
Certain insurance endorsements contain a clause or rider providing for a replacement note when the original note is paid in full, or is called by Rural Development. This provision applies to loans sold for a fixed period of 10 years or longer for loans sold on or after December 1, 1969, and a fixed period of 15 years or longer for loans sold before December 1, 1969. If a note is paid in full or called by the Government and the lender is entitled to a replacement note, the lender may obtain a certificate of beneficial ownership in lieu of the replacement note. The certificate will carry the rates and terms applicable to the replacement note.
(e)
Death of a noteholder.
The Finance Office should be notified of the death of a holder of an insured note. The following documents should be forwarded with the notice if available:
(1) A certified copy of the death certificate.
(2) A certified copy of the court order appointing the Administrator or Executor (include the mailing address of the Administrator or Executor). The Finance Office will notify the person submitting the notice and/or documentation if any other records or documents are needed, and will provide any additional instructions that are needed. Legal opinions and advice will be obtained by the Finance Office as needed from the Regional Attorney.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1901.509
Loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of insured notes, insurance contracts, and certificates of beneficial ownership.
(a)
Block sale insurance contracts.
The Associate Administrator is authorized in connection with block sale insurance contracts to authorize the Rural Development's fiscal agent to establish requirements for issuance of a replacement insurance contract when the original issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Rural Development's fiscal agent) is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced. When a block sale insurance contract is lost, stolen, or destroyed, a duplicate may be issued to the registered holder upon receipt of an acceptable certificate of loss and an indemnity bond without surety. The certificate of loss should include the legal name and present address of the owner and address when issued, if different from the present address; the capacity of person certifying, if other than owner; the identity of the insurance contract, including series number, contract number, denomination, issue date, and form of inscription of registry, and the full statement of circumstances of loss. All available portions of an insurance contract that is mutilated, defaced, or partially destroyed should be submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Rural Development's fiscal agent) for determination as to whether a duplicate insurance contract can be issued without a certificate of loss and posting of an indemnity bond. In the event the holder of a block sales insurance contract obtains possession of the underlying notes, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply.
(b)
Notes and certificates of beneficial ownership sold by County Office and Finance Office.
The Director, or the insured loan officer of the Finance Office, is authorized on behalf of the Government, in connection with insured notes or certificates of beneficial ownership sold through the Rural Development Finance Office to require indemnity bonds from a noteholder when a note or
certificate is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced while in the custody of the holder or his designee. When a note or certificate of beneficial ownership is lost, stolen, or destroyed while in the custody of the holder or his designee, the following will apply:
(1) A certificate of loss should be filed with Rural Development Finance Office. The certificate should include:
(i) Legal name and present address of owner when issued, if different from present address.
(ii) Capacity of person certifying, if other than the owner.
(iii) Identity of the note or certificate of beneficial ownership, including the name and Rural Development case number of the maker thereof, issue date, interest rate of obligation, face amount of note or certificate of beneficial ownership, and a full description of any assignment, endorsement, or any other writing.
(iv) A full statement of circumstances of the loss, theft, or destruction of the note.
(2) An indemnity bond in the amount of the unpaid principal and interest will be required except in the following instances:
(i) Substantially the entire note or certificate of beneficial ownership is presented and surrendered by the owner or holder, and the Director, Finance Office, is satisfied as to the identity of the instruments and that any missing portions are not sufficient to form the basis of a valid claim against the United States or the borrower; or
(ii) The owner or holder is the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Government Corporation, a State or territory, or the District of Columbia.
(3) An indemnity bond without surety will be provided in the following cases:
(i) Cases involving registered unassigned obligations held by banks, trust companies, savings and loan associations, or companies holding certificates of authority from Secretary of the Treasury as acceptable sureties on Federal Bonds (companies listed on Treasury Department Circular 570) where the financial responsibilities of such claimants are well known or readily ascertainable.
(ii) Cases involving registered unassigned obligations where the evidence reasonably justifies a conclusion that the obligations were destroyed and the unpaid principal and interest amount does not exceed $1,000.
(4) An indemnity posted with a qualified surety is required in all cases involving registered unassigned obligations other than those cited in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section. A qualified surety is a company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury as acceptable sureties on Federal Bonds, and listed in Treasury Department Circular 570.
(5) All indemnity bonds for notes must be payable to both the borrower and Rural Development. All indemnity bonds for certificates of beneficial ownership must be payable to Rural Development. The bond may be posted at the time the note or certificate of beneficial ownership becomes eligible for repurchase by Rural Development. If the holder desires to continue to hold the note for the life of the note, an indemnity bond will not be required.
(6) An assignment of the note or certificate of beneficial ownership shall be made to the United States of America, acting through Rural Development, United States Department of Agriculture. An acceptable form of assignment is available from the Director, Finance Office.
(c)
Other cases.
Cases involving bearer obligations and other cases not discussed in this section will be forwarded to the Director, Finance Office, for requirements.
(d)
Replacement of notes.
Rural Development will not attempt to obtain replacement notes from borrowers.
[41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]
Subparts L-N [Reserved]
Pt. 1902

# PART 1902—SUPERVISED BANK ACCOUNTS

# Subpart A—Supervised Bank Accounts of Loan, Grant, and Other Funds
Sec.
1902.1
General.
1902.2
Policies concerning disbursement of funds.
1902.3
Procedures to follow in fund disbursement.
1902.4
Establishing MFH reserve accounts in a supervised bank account.
1902.5
[Reserved]
1902.6
Establishing supervised bank accounts.
1902.7
Pledging collateral for deposit of funds in supervised bank accounts.
1902.8
Authority to establish and administer supervised bank accounts.
1902.9
Deposits.
1902.10
Withdrawals.
1902.11
Servicing Office records.
1902.12-1902.13
[Reserved]
1902.14
Reconciliation of accounts.
1902.15
Closing accounts.
1902.16
Request for withdrawals by State Director.
1902.17-1902.49
[Reserved]
1902.50
OMB control number.
Exhibit A to Subpart A of Part 1902 [Reserved]
Exhibit B to Subpart A of Part 1902—United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers Home Administration or Its Successor Agency Under Public Law 103-354—Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 7 U.S.C. 6991,
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 1480; Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App.).

# Subpart A—Supervised Bank Accounts of Loan, Grant, and Other Funds

# Source:
46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1902.1
General.
This subpart prescribes the policies and procedures in establishing and using supervised bank accounts, and in placing Multi-Family Housing (MFH) reserve accounts in supervised bank accounts. 7 CFR part 2018, subpart D, provides the procedures Servicing Officials should follow in ordering loan and grant disbursements. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
(a) Borrowers referred to in this subpart include both loan and grant recipients. They are referred to as “depositors” in the deposit agreements hereinafter described. References herein and in deposit agreements to “other lenders” include lenders and grantors other than Rural Development.
(b) Banks and savings associations referred to in this subpart are those in which deposits are insured by the FDIC.
(c) Credit unions referred to in this subpart are those in which deposits are insured by the NCUA.
(d) Financial institutions as referred to in this subpart include banks, savings associations, and credit unions which are covered by the proper insurance coverage cited in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(e) Supervised bank accounts referred to in this subpart are bank, savings association, or credit union accounts established through deposit agreements entered into between the borrower, the United States of America acting through Rural Development, and the Financial Institution on Form RD 402-1, “Deposit Agreement”.
(f) Form RD 402-1 provides for the deposit of funds in a supervised bank account to ensure the performance of the borrower's obligation to Rural Development in connection with a loan and/or grant.
(g) “Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement” (Exhibit B of this subpart), provides for the deposit of loan or grant funds that are not required for immediate disbursement in specified interest-bearing deposits, and it is executed in conjunction with Form RD 402-1.
(h) Servicing officials referred to in this instruction include county supervisors, district directors, local supervisors, area supervisors, and National Office grant program managers.
(i) Automated systems referred to in this instruction refers to the loan accounting systems; e.g., Program Loan Accounting System, Automated Multi-Housing Accounting System, and Dedicated Loan Origination System, from which loan and grant disbursements are ordered.
(j) This subpart includes the National Office directly servicing a grant recipient or recipient of cooperative agreement funds.
[70 FR 59225, Oct. 12, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1902.2
Policies concerning disbursement of funds.
(a) Generally, loan and grant disbursements may be requested on an as needed basis, thereby reducing the need for supervised bank accounts. For all construction loans and those loans using multiple advances, only the actual amount to be disbursed at loan closing will be requested through the automated systems. Subsequent disbursements will be ordered as needed. However, supervised bank accounts may be used in certain circumstances. For example:
(1) When a construction loan is made and the construction is substantially completed, but a small amount is being withheld pending completion of landscaping or some similar item. In this case, funds not disbursed may be placed in a supervised bank account for future disbursement as appropriate.
(2) When a large number of checks will be issued in the construction of a dwelling or other development. In such cases, loan and grant disbursements will be requested in accordance with 7 CFR part 2018, subpart D as necessary, deposited in a supervised bank account, and disbursed as necessary to suppliers, sub-contractors, etc.
(3) Association loan and grant funds made on a multiple advance basis may be deposited in a supervised bank account when required by State statutes or when determined necessary by the loan approval official.
(4) Supervised bank accounts may be used when needed as defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section to ensure the correct expenditures of all or a part of loan and grant funds, borrower contributions, and borrower income. Such accounts will be limited in amount and duration to the extent feasible through the prudent disbursement of funds and the prompt termination of the interests of Rural Development and other lenders when the accounts are no longer required.
(5) When it is determined by the Servicing Official that special supervision is needed in the management of the borrower's finances, funds may be deposited in a supervised bank account. This supervisory technique will be used for a temporary period to help the borrower learn to properly manage his/her finances. Such a period will not exceed 1 year unless extended by the Servicing Official.
(b) Program instructions provide information as to the type of note to be utilized and the method of handling advances and the interest accrued.
(c) The debt instruments executed at the time of loan closing constitute an obligation on the part of the Government to disburse all funds at one time or in multiple advances, provided the funds are for purposes authorized by the Government at the time of loan closing. This obligatory commitment takes priority over any intervening liens or advances by other creditors, regardless of the provisions of the State laws involved.
[70 FR 59225, Oct. 12, 2005]
§ 1902.3
Procedures to follow in fund disbursement.
(a) The Servicing Official will determine during loan approval the amount(s) of loan or grant disbursement(s)—full or partial—and will process the request to the appropriate automated system in accordance with 7 CFR part 2018, subpart D.
(b) When Treasury check(s) are delivered to the Servicing Official, the Servicing Official will make sure that the name of the borrower and the amount(s) of check(s) coincide with the request on file. The Servicing Official should be sure that the check is properly endorsed to ensure payment to the intended recipient. Examples of such restrictive endorsements are:
(1) “For Deposit only to Account No. (Number of Construction Account) of (
Name of Borrower
) in (
Name of Financial Institution
).”
(2) “Pay to the order of (3rd party payee)”—(Contractor, Developer, Sub-Contractor, Building Supply House, etc.) for the purpose of __________.
(c) When necessary, and only under the circumstances listed in § 1902.2, the Servicing Official will establish, or cause to be established, a supervised bank account. Funds deposited in a supervised bank account are to be recorded and accounted for on Form RD
402-2, “Statement of Deposits and Withdrawals”.
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 26588, July 14, 1988; 53 FR 35670, Sept. 14, 1988; 54 FR 39727, Sept. 28, 1989; 70 FR 59226, Oct. 12, 2005]
§ 1902.4
Establishing MFH reserve accounts in a supervised bank account.
(a)
General requirements.
All MFH borrowers required to maintain reserve accounts must place the reserve accounts in a supervised bank account(s) which meets the following requirements:
(1)
Countersignature requirements.
The reserve account must require that any funds withdrawn be countersigned by an authorized government official.
(2)
Restrictions on collateral.
The financial institution holding the reserve account must ensure that the funds are not pledged or taken as security without the Agency's prior consent.
(3)
Interest bearing.
The reserve account funds are encouraged to be maintained in an interest-bearing account. The “Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement” set out in Exhibit B of this subpart is not required to be used for reserve accounts.
(4)
Restricted investments.
Reserve funds must be placed in investments authorized in 7 CFR part 3560, subpart G. The authorized investments are deemed to be of acceptable risk such that the potential for any loss is minimal.
(5)
Financial institutions.
The reserve account must be maintained in authorized financial institutions set out in 7 CFR part 3560, subpart G; e.g., banks, savings associations, credit unions, brokerage firms, mutual funds. Generally, any financial institution may be used provided invested or deposited funds are insured to protect against theft and dishonesty. The reserve account funds need not be Federally insured, but must be otherwise covered by non-Federal insurance against theft and dishonesty.
(6)
Rules where multiple projects are involved.
A reserve account(s) must be maintained for each borrower. When a borrower owns multiple projects, reserve accounts may be established for each project. A single reserve account may also be established by a borrower owning multiple projects, provided the conditions set out in 7 CFR part 3560. subpart G are met.
(7)
Term.
Reserve accounts are expected to be kept for the full term of the loan.
(b)
Deposits and account activity statements
—(1)
Deposits.
Generally, Rural Development will not require the review or approval of deposits or the use of Form RD 402-1 or 402-2.
(2)
Account activity statements.
Generally, Rural Development will not monitor or reconcile the reserve account activity statements issued periodically by the financial institutions holding the funds. Rural Development will monitor reserve account levels through budget reports, audits, and Agency reserve tracking systems. If disputes arise or the borrower is in violation of Agency regulations, the Agency may require account activity statements. When account activity statements are sought, it will normally be sufficient to obtain the statement which reflects balances as of the last activity statement ending period. Form RD 402-2 is not required to be used.
[59 FR 3778, Jan. 27, 1994, as amended at 69 FR 69104, Nov. 26, 2004; 70 FR 59226, Oct. 12, 2005; 70 FR 73347, Dec. 12, 2005; 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1902.5
[Reserved]
§ 1902.6
Establishing supervised bank accounts.
(a) Each borrower will be given an opportunity to choose the financial institution in which the supervised bank account will be established, provided the financial institution is a member of the FDIC or NCUA, as applicable.
(b) When accounts are established, it should be determined that:
(1) The financial institution is fully informed concerning the provisions of the applicable deposit agreement,
(2) Agreements are reached with respect to the services to be provided by the financial institution including the frequency and method of transmittal of checking account statements, and
(3) An agreement is reached with the financial institution regarding the place where the counter-signature will be on the checks.
(c) When possible, Servicing Officials will make arrangements with financial institutions to waive service charges in connection with supervised bank accounts. However, there is no objection to the payment by the borrower of a reasonable charge for such service.
(d) For each borrower, if the amount of any loan and grant funds, plus any borrower contributions and funds from other sources to be deposited in the supervised bank account will exceed the maximum amount insurable by the Federal government, the financial institution will be required to pledge collateral for the excess over that limit before the deposit is made (see § 1902.7 of this subpart). If the supervised bank account is a joint account, any amount over the maximum amount insurable by the federal government must be collateralized.
(e) Only one supervised bank account will be established for any borrower regardless of the amount or source of funds, except for
Rural Rental Housing
loans where separate accounts will be established for each project.
(f) When a supervised bank account is established, an original and two copies of the applicable Deposit Agreement and the Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement (Exhibit B of this subpart), when applicable, will be executed by the borrower, the financial institution, and a Servicing Office employee. The original will be retained in the borrower's case file, one executed copy will be delivered to the financial institution and one executed copy to the borrower. An extra copy of the Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement, when applicable, will be prepared and attached to the certificate, passbook, or other evidence of deposit representing the interest-bearing deposit.
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 231, Jan. 6, 1988; 70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005; 77 FR 41258, July 13, 2012]
§ 1902.7
Pledging collateral for deposit of funds in supervised bank accounts.
(a) Funds in excess of the maximum amount insurable by the Federal government, per financial institution, deposited for borrowers in supervised bank accounts, must be secured by pledging acceptable collateral with the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) in an amount not less than the excess. If the supervised bank account is a joint account, any amount over the maximum amount insurable by the federal government must be collateralized.
(b) As soon as it is determined that the loan will be approved and the applicant has selected or tentatively selected a financial institution for the supervised bank account, the Servicing Official will contact the financial institution to determine:
(1) That the financial institution selected is insured by the FDIC (banks and savings associations) or NCUA (credit unions).
(2) Whether the financial institution is willing to pledge collateral with the FRB under 31 CFR part 202 (Treasury Circular 176) to the extent necessary to secure the amount of funds being deposited in excess of the FDIC or NCUA insurance limit.
(3) If the financial institution is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, it will be necessary for the financial institution to pledge the securities with a correspondent bank who is a member of the System. The correspondent bank should contact the FRB informing them they are holding securities pledged for the supervised bank account under 31 CFR part 202 (Treasury Circular 176).
(c) If the financial institution agrees to pledge collateral, the Servicing Official should complete RD Form Letter 1902-A-2, “Designated Financial Institution—Collateral Pledge”, in an original and two copies: The original for the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division; the first copy for the State Office; and the second copy for the Servicing Official. The Rural Development Form Letter 1902-A-2 should be forwarded to the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, at least 30 days before the date of loan closing.
(d) The National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, will arrange for the financial institution under its designation as a depository and financial agent of the U.S. Government to pledge the requested collateral.
(e) If, two days before loan closing, the local Rural Development office which requested the collateral has not received notification from the National
Office, Policy and Analysis Division, that collateral has been pledged, contact should be made with the financial institution to ascertain whether they have pledged collateral with their local FRB under 31 CFR part 202 (Treasury Circular 176). If the financial institution has pledged collateral, the local Rural Development office should contact the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division, who will follow-up with the local FRB concerning the collateral.
(f) When the amount of deposit in the supervised bank account has been reduced to a point where the financial institution desires part or all of the collateral released, it should contact the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division. The local Rural Development office will be contacted for release authorization. The authorization release will be made through the local FRB, with notification to the financial institution. The local Rural Development office may also request release through the National Office, Policy and Analysis Division.
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 231, Jan. 6, 1988; 53 FR 24437, June 29, 1988; 56 FR 50648, Oct. 8, 1991; 70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005; 77 FR 41258, July 13, 2012]
§ 1902.8
Authority to establish and administer supervised bank accounts.
Servicing Officials are authorized to establish supervised bank accounts, deposit loan checks and other funds, countersign checks, close accounts, and execute all forms in connection with supervised bank account transactions and redelegate this authority to a person under their supervision who is considered capable of exercising such authority. State Directors will make written demand upon the bank for withdrawals outlined in § 1902.16.
[70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005]
§ 1902.9
Deposits.
(a)
Deposit by Rural Development personnel.
(1) Checks made payable solely to the Federal Government or any Agency thereof, and a joint check when the Treasurer of the United States is a joint payee, may not be deposited in a supervised bank account.
(2) Rural Development personnel will accept funds for deposit in a borrower's supervised bank account ONLY in the form of: A check or money order endorsed by the borrower “For Deposit Only;” a check drawn to the order of the financial institution in which the funds are to be deposited; a loan check drawn on the U.S. Treasury; or a Rural Development electronic funds transfer disbursement.
(i) A joint check that is payable to the borrower and Rural Development will be endorsed by the Servicing Official as provided in 7 CFR part 1951, subpart B, Exhibit B, section 4.
(ii) Ordinarily, when deposits are made from funds which are received as the result of consent or subordination agreements or assignments of income, the check should be drawn to the order of the financial institution in which the supervised bank account is established or jointly to the order of the borrower and Rural Development. All such checks should be delivered or mailed to the Servicing Office.
(3) If direct or insured loan funds or borrower contributions are to be deposited in a supervised bank account, such funds will be deposited on the date of loan closing after it has been determined that the loan can be closed. However, if it is impossible to deposit the funds on the day the loan is closed due to reasons such as distance from the financial institution or banking hours, the funds will be deposited on the first banking day following the date of loan closing.
(4) Grant funds will be deposited when such funds are delivered.
(5) When funds from any source in the form of cash, check, or money order are deposited by Rural Development personnel in a supervised bank account, a deposit slip will be prepared in an original and two copies with distribution as follows: Original to the financial institution, one copy to the borrower, and one copy for the borrower's case folder. The name of the borrower, the sources of funds, “Subject to Rural Development Countersignature” and, if applicable, the account number, will be entered on each deposit slip.
(6) A loan or grant check drawn on the U.S. Treasury may be deposited in a supervised bank account without endorsement by the borrower when it will
facilitate delivery of the check and is acceptable to the financial institution. The borrower will be notified immediately of any deposit made and will be furnished a copy of the deposit slip. When a deposit of this nature is made, the following endorsement will be used:
For deposit only in the supervised bank account of (
name of borrower
) in the (
name of financial institution and address when necessary for identification
) pursuant to Deposit Agreement dated ________.
(7) Accounts established through the use of Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement will be in the name of the depositor and the Government.
(b)
Deposits by borrowers.
Funds in the form of cash, check, or money order may be deposited in the supervised bank account by the borrower if authorized by Rural Development, provided the financial institution has agreed that when a deposit is made to the account by other than Rural Development personnel, the financial institution will promptly deliver or mail a copy of the deposit slip to the Rural Development Servicing Office.
(1) A loan or grant check drawn on the U.S. Treasury may be deposited in a supervised bank account by a borrower, provided the following endorsement is used and is inserted thereon prior to delivery to the borrower for signature:
For deposit only in my supervised bank account in the (
name of financial institution and address when necessary for identification
) pursuant to Deposit Agreement dated ________.
(2) Funds other than loan or grant funds may be deposited by the borrower in those exceptional instances where an agreement is reached between the Servicing Official and the borrower, whereby the borrower will make deposits of income from any source directly into the supervised bank account. In such instances the borrower will be instructed to prepare the deposit slip in the manner described in § 1902.9 (a)(5) of this subpart.
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005; 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1902.10
Withdrawals.
(a) The Servicing Official will not countersign checks on the supervised bank account for the use of funds unless the funds deposited by the borrower from other sources were cash deposits, checks which the Servicing Official knows to be good, or deposited checks which have cleared.
(b) Withdrawals of funds deposited under the applicable deposit agreement are permitted only by order of the borrower and countersignature of authorized Rural Development personnel, or upon written demand on the financial institution by the State Director.
(c) Upon withdrawal or maturity of interest-bearing accounts established through the use of an Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement, such funds will be credited to the supervised bank account established through the use of Form RD 402-1.
(d) The issuance of checks on the supervised bank account will be kept to the minimum possible without defeating the purpose of such accounts. When major items of capital goods are being purchased, or a limited number of relatively costly items of operating expenses are being paid, or when debts are being refinanced, the checks will be drawn to the vendors or creditors. If minor capital items are being purchased or numerous items of operating and family living expenses are involved as in connection with a monthly budget, a check may be drawn to the borrower to provide the funds to meet such costs.
(1) A check will be issued payable to the appropriate payee but will never be issued to “cash.” The purpose of the expenditure will be clearly shown on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 402-2 and indicated on the fact of the check. When checks are drawn in favor of the borrower to cover items too numerous to identify, the expenditure will be identified on the check, as “miscellaneous.”
(2) Ordinarily, a check will be countersigned before it is delivered to the payee. However, in justifiable circumstances, such as when excessive travel on the part of the borrower or Servicing Official would be involved, or purchase would be prevented, and the borrower can be relied upon to select goods and services in accordance with the plans, a check may be delivered to
the payee by the borrower before being countersigned.
(i) When a check is to be delivered to the payee before being countersigned, the Servicing Official must make it clear to the borrower and to the payee, if possible, that the check will be countersigned only if the quantity and quality of items purchased are in accordance with approved plans.
(ii) Checks delivered to the payee before counter-signature will bear the following legend in addition to the legend for countersignature: Valid only upon countersignature of Rural Development.”
(iii) The check must be presented by the payee or a representative to the Rural Development Servicing Office for the required countersignature.
(iv) Such check must be accompanied by a bill of sale, invoice, or receipt signed by the borrower identifying the nature and cost of goods or services purchased, or similar information must be indicated on the check.
(3) For real estate loans or grants, whether the check is delivered to the payee before or after countersignature, the number and date of the check will be inserted on all bills of sale, invoices, receipts, and itemized statements for materials, equipment, and services.
(4) Bills of sale, invoices, receipts, or itemized statements may be returned to the borrower with the canceled check for the payment of the bill.
(5) Checks to be drawn on a supervised bank account will bear the legend:
• “Countersigned,” not as co-maker or endorser.
(Title)
Rural Development
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 47959, Nov. 20, 1989; 70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005; 80 FR 9870, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1902.11
Servicing Office records.
A record of funds deposited in a supervised bank account will be maintained on Form RD 402-2 in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert. The record of funds provided for operating purposes by another creditor or grantor will be on a separate Form RD 402-2 so that they can be clearly identified.
[70 FR 59228, Oct. 12, 2005]
§§ 1902.12-1902.13
[Reserved]
§ 1902.14
Reconciliation of accounts.
(a) A checking account statement will be obtained periodically in accordance with established practices in the area. If the checking statement does not include sufficient information to reconcile the account (the name of the payee or the check number and the amount of each check; i.e., a negotiable demand draft drawn on a financial institution), the original cancelled check or either a copy or other reasonable facsimile of the cancelled check must be provided to the Servicing Office with the statement. Checking account statements will be reconciled promptly with Servicing Office records. The person making the reconciliation will initial the record and indicate the date of the action.
(b) All checking account statements and, if necessary, original cancelled checks or either a copy or other reasonable facsimile of the cancelled checks will be forwarded immediately to the borrower when bank statements and Servicing Office records are in agreement. If a transmittal is used, Form RD 140-4, “Transmittal of Documents”, is prescribed for that purpose.
(c) If the financial institution did not return the original cancelled check(s) to the Agency with the statements, and Rural Development has a need for the original cancelled check(s), the financial institution, upon request by the Agency, will furnish to the Agency the requested original cancelled check(s) or a certified copy or other reasonable certified facsimile of the cancelled check(s) and will provide this service to Rural Development with no fees being assessed the Agency or the Depositor's account for the service.
[70 FR 59228, Oct. 12, 2005]
§ 1902.15
Closing accounts.
When Rural Development loan or grant funds and those of any other lender or grantor have all been properly expended or withdrawn, Form RD
402-6 may be used to give Rural Development's consent (and of another lender or grantor, if involved) to close the supervised bank account in the following situations:
(a) When Rural Development loan funds in the supervised bank account of a borrower have been reduced to $100 or less, and a check for the unexpended balance has been issued to the borrower to be used for authorized purposes.
(b) For all loan accounts, after completion of authorized loan funds expenditures, and after promptly refunding any remaining unexpended loan funds on the borrower's loan account with Rural Development or another lender, as appropriate.
(c) Promptly upon death of a borrower, except when the loan is being continued with a joint debtor, when a borrower is in default and it is determined that no further assistance will be given, or when a borrower is no longer classified as “active.”
(1)
Deceased borrowers.
(i) Ordinarily, upon notice of the death of a borrower, the District Director or the County Supervisor will request the State Director to make demand upon the bank for the balance on deposit and apply all the balance after payment of any bank charges to the borrower's Rural Development indebtedness. When the State Director approves continuation with a survivor, the supervised bank account of deceased borrower may be continued with a remaining joint debtor who is liable for the loan and agrees to use the unexpended funds as planned, provided:
(i) Ordinarily, upon notice of the death of a borrower, the Servicing Official will request the State Director to make demand upon the bank for the balance on deposit and apply all the balance after payment of any bank charges to the borrower's Rural Development indebtedness. When the State Director approves continuation with a survivor, the supervised bank account of a deceased borrower may be continued with a remaining joint debtor who is liable for the loan and agrees to use the unexpended funds as planned, provided:
(A) The account is a joint survivorship supervised bank account, or
(B) If not a joint survivorship account, the financial institution will agree to permit the addition of the surviving joint debtor's name to the existing signature card and the appropriate Deposit Agreement and continue to disburse checks out of the existing account upon Rural Development's countersignature and the joint debtor's signature in place of the deceased borrower, or
(C) The financial institution will permit the State Director to withdraw the balance from the existing supervised bank account with a check jointly payable to the Rural Development and the surviving joint debtor and deposit the money in a new supervised bank account with a surviving joint debtor, and will disburse checks from this new account upon the signature of such survivor and the countersignature of an authorized Rural Development official.
(ii) The State Director, before applying the balance remaining in the supervised bank account to the Rural Development indebtedness, is authorized upon approval by the Office of the General Counsel (OGC) to refund any unobligated balances of funds from other lenders to the Rural Development borrower for specific operating purposes in accordance with subordination agreements or other arrangements between Rural Development, the lender and the borrower.
(iii) The State Director, upon the recommendation of an authorized representative of the estate of the deceased borrower and the approval of the OGC, is authorized to approve the use of deposited funds for the payment of commitments for goods delivered or services performed in accordance with the deceased borrower's plans approved by Rural Development.
(2)
Borrowers in default.
Whenever it is impossible or impractical to obtain a signed check from a borrower whose supervised bank account is to be closed, the Servicing Official will request the State Director to make demand upon the financial institution for the balance on deposit in the borrower's supervised bank account for application as appropriate:
(i) To the borrower's Rural Development indebtedness, or
(ii) As refunds of any unobligated advance provided by other lenders which were deposited in the account, or
(iii) For the return of Rural Development grant funds in accordance with 7 CFR part 1951, subpart B or
(iv) For the return of grant funds to other grantors.
(3)
Inactive borrowers.
An inactive borrower is one whose loan has not been paid in full, but is no longer classified as “active.”
(4)
Paid up borrowers.
A paid-up borrower is one who has a balance remaining in the supervised bank account and has repaid the entire indebtedness to Rural Development and has properly expended all funds advanced by other lenders. In such cases the Servicing Official will:
(i) Notify the borrower in writing that the interests in the account of Rural Development have been terminated, and
(ii) Inform the borrower of the balance remaining in the supervised bank account.
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 231, Jan. 6, 1988; 54 FR 47196, Nov. 13, 1989; 66 FR 1569, Jan. 9, 2001; 70 FR 59228, Oct. 12, 2005; 80 FR 9870, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1902.16
Request for withdrawals by State Director.
When the State Director is requested to make written demand upon the financial institution for the balance on deposit in the supervised bank account, or any part thereof, the request will be accompanied by the following information.
(a) Name of borrower as it appears on the applicable Deposit Agreement.
(b) Name and location of financial institution.
(c) Amount to be withdrawn for refund to another lender of any balance that may remain of funds received by the borrower from such lender as a loan or grant, or under a subordination agreement or other arrangement between the Rural Development, the other lender, and the borrower.
(d) Amount to be withdrawn, excluding any service charges, for a refund due to Rural Development.
(e) Other pertinent information including reasons for the withdrawal.
[46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 80 FR 9870, Feb. 24, 2015]
§§ 1902.17-1902.49
[Reserved]
§ 1902.50
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the OMB and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0575-0158.
[70 FR 59228, Oct. 12, 2005]
Exhibit A to Subpart A of Part 1902 [Reserved]
Pt. 1902, Subpt. A, Exh. B

# Exhibit B to Subpart A of Part 1902—United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers Home Administration or Its Successor Agency Under Public Law 103-354—Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement
BECAUSE certain funds of __________ referred to as the “Depositor,” are now on deposit with the __________, referred to as the “Financial Institution,” under a Deposit Agreement, dated ______________________, 20____, providing for supervision by the United States of America, acting through the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, referred to as the “Government,” which Deposit Agreement grants to the Government security and/or other interest in the funds covered by that Deposit Agreement, and
BECAUSE certain of these funds are not now required for immediate disbursement and it is the desire of the Depositor to place these funds in interest-bearing deposits with the Financial Institution:
THEREFORE, the Depositor and the Government authorize and direct the Financial Institution to place ________ Dollars ($________) of the funds subject to that Deposit Agreement in interest-bearing deposits as follows:
________ for a period of __________ months at __________% interest.
________ for a period of __________ months at __________% interest.
________ for a period of __________ months at __________% interest.
These interest-bearing deposits and the income earned on them at all times shall be considered a part of the account covered by said Deposit Agreement except that the right of the Depositor and the Government to jointly withdraw all or a portion of the funds in the account covered by the Deposit
Agreement by an order of the Depositor countersigned by a representative of the Government, and the right of the Government to make written demand for the balance or any portion of the balance, is modified by the above time deposit maturity schedule. The evidence of such time deposits shall be issued in the names of the Depositor and the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
A copy of this Agreement shall be attached to and become a part of each certificate, passbook, or other evidence of deposit that may be issued to represent such interest-bearing deposits.
Executed this ______________ day of ______________, 20____.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
By:
County Supervisor
Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354
U.S. Department of Agriculture
(Depositor)
By:
Title:
Accepted on the above terms and conditions this ____________ day of ________________, 20____.
(Financial Institution)
(Office or Branch)
By:
Title:
[53 FR 35671, Sept. 14, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 21524, May 25, 1990; 70 FR 59228, Oct. 12, 2005]
Subparts B-C [Reserved]
PART 1904—LOAN AND GRANT PROGRAMS (INDIVIDUAL) [RESERVED]
Pt. 1910

# PART 1910—GENERAL
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Credit Reports (Individual)
Sec.
1910.51
Purpose.
1910.52
[Reserved]
1910.53
Policy.
1910.54-1910.100
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Commercial Credit Reports
1910.101
Preface.
1910.102-1910.150
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480.

# Source:
43 FR 56643, Dec. 4, 1978, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106890, Dec. 31, 2024, part 1910 is removed and reserved, effective Jan. 30, 2025
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Credit Reports (Individual)

# Source:
49 FR 40790, Oct. 18, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1910.51
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the policies and procedures of Rural Development for individual and joint type credit reports. Credit reports will be ordered to determine the eligibility of applicants requesting Rural Development loans. A nonrefundable fee will be charged the applicant. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
[80 FR 9870, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1910.52
[Reserved]
§ 1910.53
Policy.
The County Supervisor will be responsible for ordering individual credit reports. These will be obtained on initial and rescheduled Farmer Program loans and on all initial Single Family Housing applications, except for those situations outlined in paragraph (c) of this section, to help determine the eligibility of the loan applicant, and when it appears the credit report will not have to be updated before loan closing.
[55 FR 46188, Nov. 2, 1990]
§§ 1910.54-1910.100
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Commercial Credit Reports

# Source:
52 FR 6498, Mar. 4, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1910.101
Preface.
This subpart (§§ 1910.101 through 1910.150) describes the procedure to be
used by Rural Development in obtaining commercial credit reports. A nonrefundable fee, set forth in § 1910.106(d) of this Instruction will be collected from the applicant, general contractor or dealer contractor who is the subject of the report. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
[52 FR 6498, Mar. 4, 1987, as amended at 72 FR 64122, Nov. 15, 2007; 80 FR 9870, Feb. 24, 2015]
§§ 1910.102-1910.150
[Reserved]
PART 1922 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1924

# PART 1924—CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR

# Subpart A—Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development
Sec.
1924.1
Purpose.
1924.2
[Reserved]
1924.3
Authorities and responsibilities.
1924.4
Definitions.
1924.5
Planning development work.
1924.6
Performing development work.
1924.7
[Reserved]
1924.8
Development work for modular/panelized housing units.
1924.9
Inspection of development work.
1924.10
Making changes in the planned development.
1924.11
District Director's review of incomplete development.
1924.12
Warranty of development work.
1924.13
Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
1924.14-1924.48
[Reserved]
1924.49
State supplements.
1924.50
OMB control number.
Exhibit A to Subpart A of Part 1924—Estimated Breakdown of Dwelling Costs for Estimating Partial Payments
Exhibit B to Subpart A of Part 1924—Requirements for Modular/Panelized Housing Units
Exhibit C to Subpart A of Part 1924—Guide for Drawings and Specifications
Exhibit D to Subpart A of Part 1924—Thermal Performance Construction Standards
Exhibit E to Subpart A of Part 1924—Voluntary National Model Building Codes
Exhibit F to Subpart A of Part 1924—Payment Bond
Exhibit G to Subpart A of Part 1924—Performance Bond
Exhibit H to Subpart A of Part 1924—Prohibition of Lead-Based Paints
Exhibit I to Subpart A of Part 1924—Guidelines for Seasonal Farm Labor Housing
Exhibit J to Subpart A of Part 1924—Manufactured Home Sites, Rental Projects and Subdivisions: Development, Installation and Set-Up
Exhibit K to Subpart A of Part 1924—Classifications for Multi-Family Residential Rehabilitation Work
Exhibit L to Subpart A of Part 1924—Insured 10-Year Home Warranty Plan Requirements
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Planning and Performing Site Development Work
1924.101
Purpose.
1924.102
General policy.
1924.103
Scope.
1924.104
Definitions.
1924.105
Planning/performing development.
1924.106
Location.
1924.107
Utilities.
1924.108
Grading and drainage.
1924.109-1924.114
[Reserved]
1924.115
Single Family Housing site evaluation.
1924.116-1924.118
[Reserved]
1924.119
Site Loans.
1924.120-1924.121
[Reserved]
1924.122
Exception authority.
1924.123-1924.149
[Reserved]
1924.150
OMB Control Number.
Exhibit A to Subpart C of Part 1924 [Reserved]
Exhibit B to Subpart C of Part 1924—Site Development Design Requirements
Exhibit C to Subpart C of Part 1924—Checklist of Visual Exhibits and Documentation for RRH, RCH, and LH Proposals
Subparts D-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Complaints and Compensation for Construction Defects
1924.251
Purpose.
1924.252
Policy.
1924.253
Definitions.
1924.254-1924.257
[Reserved]
1924.258
Notification of borrowers.
1924.259
Handling dwelling construction complaints.
1924.260
Handling manufactured housing (unit) construction complaints.
1924.261
Handling complaints involving dwellings covered by an independent or insured home warranty plan.
1924.262
Handling complaints involving dwellings constructed by the self-help method.
1924.263-1924.264
[Reserved]
1924.265
Eligibility for compensation for construction defects.
1924.266
Purposes for which claims may be approved.
1924.267-1924.270
[Reserved]
1924.271
Processing applications.
1924.272
[Reserved]
1924.273
Approval or disapproval.
1924.274
Final inspection.
1924.275
[Reserved]
1924.276
Action against contractor.
1924.277-1924.299
[Reserved]
1924.300
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C 1989; 42 U.S.C 1480.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 1924 appear at 80 FR 9870, Feb. 24, 2015.

# Subpart A—Planning and Performing Construction and Other Development

# Source:
52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1924.1
Purpose.
This subpart prescribes the basic Agency policies, methods, and responsibilities in the planning and performing of construction and other development work for insured Rural Housing (RH), single unit Labor Housing (LH). It also provides supplemental requirements for Rural Rental Housing (RRH) loans, Rural Cooperative Housing (RCH) loans, multi-unit (LH) loans and grants, and Rural Housing Site (RHS) loans. This subpart is inapplicable to Farm Service Agency, Farm Loan Programs.
[53 FR 35679, Sept. 14, 1988, as amended at 72 FR 64122, Nov. 15, 2007]
§ 1924.2
[Reserved]
§ 1924.3
Authorities and responsibilities.
The County Supervisor and District Director are authorized to redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to them in this subpart to the Assistant County Supervisor and Assistant District Director, respectively, when determined to be qualified. Agency Construction Inspectors, District Loan Assistants, and County Office Assistants are authorized to perform duties under this subpart as authorized in their job descriptions.
§ 1924.4
Definitions.
(a)
Construction.
Such work as erecting, repairing, remodeling, relocating, adding to or salvaging any building or structure, and the installation or repair of, or addition to, heating and electrical systems, water systems, sewage disposal systems, walks, steps, driveways, and landscaping.
(b)
Contract documents.
The borrower-contractor agreement, the conditions of the contract (general, supplementary, and other), the drawings, specifications, warranty information, all addenda issued before executing the contract, all approved modifications thereto, and any other items stipulated as being included in the contract documents.
(c)
Contractor.
The individual or organization with whom the borrower enters into a contract for construction or land development, or both.
(d)
County Supervisor and District Director.
In Alaska, for the purpose of this subpart, “County Supervisor” and “District Director” also mean “Assistant Area Loan Specialist” and “Area Loan Specialist,” respectively. The terms also include other qualified staff who may be delegated responsibilities under this subpart in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of part 2006 (available in any Agency office).
(e)
Date of commencement of work.
The date established in a “Notice to Proceed” or, in the absence of such notice, the date of the contract or other date as may be established in it or by the parties to it.
(f)
Date of substantial completion.
The date certified by the Project Architect/Engineer or County Supervisor when it is possible, in accordance with any contract documents and applicable State or local codes and ordinances, and the Agency approved drawings and specifications, to permit safe and convenient occupancy and/or use of the buildings or other development.
(g)
Development.
Construction and land development.
(h)
Development standards.
Any of the following codes and standards:
(1) A standard adopted by the Agency for each state in accordance with § 1924.5(d)(1)(i)(E) of this subpart.
(2)
Voluntary national model building codes (model codes).
Comprehensive documents created, referenced or published by nationally recognized associations of building officials that regulate the construction, alteration and repair of building, plumbing, mechanical and electrical systems. These codes are listed in exhibit E of this subpart.
(3)
Minimum Property Standards (MPS).
The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Minimum Property Standards for Housing, Handbook 4910.1, 1984 Edition with Changes. (For One and Two Family Dwellings and Multi-Family Housing).
(i)
Identity of interest.
Identity of interest will be construed as existing between the applicant (the party of the first part) and general contractors, architects, engineers, attorneys, subcontractors, material suppliers, or equipment lessors (parties of the second part) under any of the following conditions:
(1) When there is any financial interest of the party of the first part in the party of the second part. The providing of normal professional services by architects, engineers, attorneys or accountants with a client-professional relationship shall not constitute an identity of interest.
(2) When one or more of the officers, directors, stockholders or partners of the party of the first part is also an officer, director, stockholder, or partner of the party of the second part.
(3) When any officer, director, stockholder or partner of the party of the first part has any financial interest whatsoever in the party of the second part.
(4) Between the spouse, significant other, relatives, and step-relatives of the principal owners of the party of the first part and its management, such as Grandmother, Aunt, Daughter, Granddaughter, Grandfather, Uncle, Son, Grandson, Mother, Sister, Niece, Cousin, Father, Brother, Nephew;
(5) When the party of the second part advances any funds to the party of the first part.
(6) When the party of the second part provides and pays on behalf of the party of the first part the cost of any legal services, architectural services or engineering services other than those of a surveyor, general superintendent, or engineer employed by a general contractor in connection with obligations under the construction contract.
(7) When the party of the second part takes stock or any interest in the party of the first part as part of the consideration to be paid them.
(8) When there exist or come into being any side deals, agreements, contracts or undertakings entered into thereby altering, amending, or cancelling any of the required closing documents except as approved by the Agency.
(9) An identity of interest will also exist when another party can significantly influence the management or operating policies of the transacting parties or if it has an ownership interest in one of the transacting parties and can significantly influence the other to an extent that one or more of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests.
(j)
Land development.
Includes items such as terracing, clearing, leveling, fencing, drainage and irrigation systems, ponds, forestation, permanent pastures, perennial hay crops, basic soil amendments, pollution abatement and control measures, and other items of land improvement which conserve or permanently enhance productivity. Also, land development for structures includes the applicable items above, and items such as rough and finish grading, retaining walls, water supply and waste disposal facilities, streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, entrancewalks, driveways, parking areas, landscaping and other related structures.
(k)
Manufactured housing.
Housing, constructed of one or more factory-built sections, which includes the plumbing, heating and electrical systems contained therein, which is built to comply with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (FMHCSS), and which is designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation. Specific requirements for manufactured homes sites, rental projects and subdivisions are in exhibit J of this subpart.
(l)
Mechanic's and materialmen's liens.
A lien on real property in favor of persons supplying labor and/or materials for the construction for the value of labor and/or materials supplied by them. In some jurisdictions, a mechanic's lien also exists for the value of professional services.
(m)
Modular/panelized housing.
Housing, constructed of one or more factory-built sections, which, when completed, meets or exceeds the requirements of one or more of the recognized development standards for site-built housing, and which is designed to be permanently connected to a site-built foundation.
(n)
Project representative.
The architect's or owner's representative at the construction site who assists in the administration of the construction contract. When required by the Agency, a full-time project representative shall be employed.
(o)
Technical services.
Applicants are responsible for obtaining the services necessary to plan projects including analysis of project design requirements, creation and development of the project design, preparation of drawings, specifications and bidding requirements, and general administration of the construction contract.
(1) Architectural services. The services of a professionally qualified person or organization, duly licensed and qualified in accordance with state law to perform architectural services.
(2) Engineering services. The services of a professionally qualified person or organization, duly licensed and qualified in accordance with State law to perform engineering services.
(p)
Warranty.
A legally enforceable assurance provided by the builder (warrantor) to the owner and the Agency indicating that the work done and materials supplied conform to those specified in the contract documents and applicable regulations. For the period of the warranty, the warrantor agrees to repair defective workmanship and repair or replace any defective materials at the expense of the warrantor.
[52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 6882, Feb. 14, 1994]
§ 1924.5
Planning development work.
(a)
Extent of development.
For an FO loan, the plans for development will include the items necessary to put the farm in a livable and operable condition consistent with the planned farm and home operations. For other types of loans, the plans will include those items essential to achieve the objectives of the loan or grant as specified in the applicable regulation.
(b)
Funds for development work.
The total cash cost of all planned development will be shown on Form RD 1924-1, “Development Plan,” except Form RD 1924-1 may be omitted when: (1) All development is to be done by the contract method, (2) adequate cost estimates are included in the docket, and (3) the work, including all landscaping, repairs, and site development work, is completely described on the drawings, in the specifications, or in the contract documents. Sufficient funds to pay for the total cash cost of all planned development must be provided at or before loan closing. Funds to be provided may include loan proceeds, any cash to be furnished by the borrower, proceeds from cost sharing programs such as Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) and Great Plains programs or proceeds from the sale of property in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)
Scheduling of development work.
(1) All construction work included in the development plan for RH loans will be scheduled for completion as quickly as practicable and no later than 9 months from the date of loan closing, except for mutual self-help housing where work may be scheduled for completion within a period of 15 months.
(2) Development for farm program loans will be scheduled for completion as quickly as practicable and no later than 15 months from the date of loan closing unless more time is needed to establish land developnent practices in the area.
(d)
Construction.
(1) All new buildings to be constructed and all alterations and repairs to buildings will be planned to conform with good construction practices. The Agency Manual of Acceptable Practices (MAP) Vol. 4930.1
(available in any Agency office), provides suggestions and illustrative clarifications of design and construction methods which are generally satisfactory in most areas. All improvements to the property will conform to applicable laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations related to the safety and sanitation of buildings; standards referenced in Appendices C through F of HUD Handbook 4910.1, Minimum Property Standards for Housing; Thermal Performance Construction Standards contained in exhibit D of this subpart and, when required, to certain other development standards described below.
(i) The development standard applicable to a proposal will be selected by the loan applicant or recipient of an RH Conditional Commitment in accordance with the following. The standard selected must:
(A) Relate to the type(s) of building proposed.
(B) Meet or exceed any applicable local or state laws, ordinances, codes and regulations.
(C) Include all referenced codes and standards.
(D) Exclude inapplicable administrative requirements.
(E) Be the current edition(s) of either paragraph (d)(1)(i)(E)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section:
(
1
) The development standard, consisting of building, plumbing, mechanical and electrical codes, adopted by the Agency for use in the state (identified in a State Supplement to this section) in which the development is proposed, in accordance with the following:
(
i
) The adopted development standard shall include any building, plumbing, mechanical or electrical code adopted by the State, if determined by the State Director to be based on one of the model codes listed in exhibit E to this subpart, or, if not available,
(
ii
) The adopted development standard shall include any building, plumbing, mechanical or electrical code adopted by the state, if determined by the Administrator to be acceptable, or, if not available,
(
iii
) The adopted development standard shall include the model building, plumbing, mechanical or electrical code listed in exhibit E to this subpart that is determined by the State Director to be most prevalent and appropriate for the state.
(
2
) Any of the model building, plumbing, mechanical and electrical codes listed in exhibit E to this subpart or the standards defined in § 1924.4(h)(3) of this subpart.
(ii) Guide 2, “ Rural Development Design Guide,” of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office), includes guidelines for the evaluation of the design features which are not fully addressed in the development standards.
(iii) In new housing, all design, materials and construction will meet or exceed the applicable development standard as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(iv) For multi-family residential rehabilitation, as defined in exhibit K of this subpart, all substantial rehabilitation work on existing buildings will meet or exceed the applicable development standard. All moderate rehabilitation work should comply with Guide 3, “Quality and Performance Criteria for Moderate Rehabilitation,” of this subpart (available in any Agency office).
(v) The design and construction of housing repairs made with Agency loan or grant funds will, as near as possible, comply with the applicable development standard.
(vi) Farm LH design and construction will comply with the following:
(A) Family projects, where the length of occupancy will be:
(
1
) Year-round, will meet or exceed the applicable development standard.
(
2
) Less than 12 months, but more than 6 months, will be in substantial conformance with the applicable development standard and constructed to facilitate conversion to year-round occupancy standards.
(
3
) Six months or less, may be less than the applicable development standard but should be constructed in accordance with exhibit I of this subpart.
(B) Dormitory and other nonfamily type projects, where the length of occupancy will be:
(
1
) More than 6 months, will be in substantial conformance with the applicable development standard and will
at least meet or exceed the requirements of the Department of Labor, Bureau of Employment Security (29 CFR 1910.140).
(
2
) Six months or less, will comply with § 1924.5(d)(1)(vi)(A)(3).
(vii) Farm service buildings should be designed and constructed for adaptation to the local area. In designing and locating farm service buildings, consideration will be given to practices recommended by agriculture colleges, the Extension Service (ES), Soil Conservation Service (SCS) and other reliable sources.
(2) Drawings, specifications, and estimates will fully describe the work. Technical data, tests, or engineering evaluations may be required to support the design of the development. The “Guide for Drawings and Specifications,” exhibit C of this subpart, describes the drawings and specifications that are to be included in the application for building construction, and subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter describes the drawings that should be included for development of building sites. The specific development standard being used, if required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be identified on all drawings and specifications.
(3) Materials acceptance shall be the same as described in paragraph X of exhibit B to this subpart.
(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, new building construction and additions shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the earthquake (seismic) requirements of the applicable Agency's development standard (building code). The analysis and design of structural systems and components shall be in accordance with applicable requirements of an acceptable model building code.
(i) Agricultural buildings that are not intended for human habitation are exempt from these earthquake (seismic) requirements.
(ii) Single family conventional light wood frame dwellings of two stories or 35 feet in height maximum shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the 1992 Council of American Building Officials (CABO) One and Two Family Dwelling Code or the latest edition.
(iii) Single family housing of masonry design and townhouses of wood frame construction and additions financed (either directly or through a guarantee) under title V of the Housing Act of 1949 are recommended to be designed and constructed in accordance with the earthquake (seismic) requirements of one of the building codes that provides an equivalent level of safety to that contained in the latest edition of the National Earthquake Hazard Reduction Program's (NEHRP) Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Building (NEHRP Provisions).
(iv) Acknowledgment of compliance with the applicable seismic safety requirements for new construction will be contained in the certification of final plans and specification on the appropriate Agency Form.
(e)
Land development.
(1) In planning land development, consideration will be given to practices, including energy conservation measures, recommended by agricultural colleges, ES, SCS or other reliable sources. All land and water development will conform to applicable laws, ordinances, zoning and other applicable regulations including those related to soil and water conservation and pollution abatement. The County Supervisor or District Director also will encourage the applicant to use any cost-sharing and planning assistance that may be available through agricultural conservation programs.
(2) Site and subdivision planning and development must meet the requirements of subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.
(3) Plans and descriptive material will fully describe the work.
(4) The site planning design, development, installation and set-up of manufactured home sites, rental projects and subdivisions shall meet the requirements of exhibit J of this subpart and subpart C of part 1924 of this chapter.
(i) Plans for land leveling, irrigation, or drainage should include a map of the area to be improved showing the existing conditions with respect to soil, topography, elevations, depth of topsoil,
kind of subsoil, and natural drainage, together with the proposed land development.
(ii) When land development consists of, or includes, the conservation and use of water for irrigation or domestic purposes, the information submitted to the County Supervisor will include a statement as to the source of the water supply, right to the use of the water, and the adequacy and quality of the supply.
(f)
Responsibilities for planning development.
Planning construction and land development and obtaining technical services in connection with drawings, specifications and cost estimates are the sole responsibility of the applicant, with such assistance from the County Supervisor or District Director (whichever is the appropriate loan processing and servicing officer for the type of loan involved), as may be necessary to be sure that the development is properly planned in order to protect the Agency's security.
(1)
Responsibility of the applicant.
(i) The applicant will arrange for obtaining any required technical services from qualified technicians, tradespeople, and recognized plan services, and the applicant will furnish the Agency sufficient information to describe fully the planned development and the manner in which it will be accomplished.
(ii) When items of construction or land development require drawings and specifications, they will be sufficiently complete to avoid any misunderstanding as to extent, kind, and quality of work to be performed. The applicant will provide the Agency with one copy of the drawings and specifications. Approval will be indicated by the applicant and acceptance for the purposes of the loan indicated by the County Supervisor or District Director on all sheets of the drawings and at the end of the specifications, and both instruments will be a part of the loan docket. After the loan is closed, the borrower will retain a conformed copy of the approved drawings and specifications, and provide another conformed copy to the contractor. Items not requiring drawings and specifications may be described in narrative form.
(iii) The Agency will accept final drawings and specifications and any modifications thereof only after the documents have been certified in writing as being in conformance with the applicable development standard if required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Certification is required for all Single Family Housing (SFH) thermal designs (plans, specifications, and calculations).
(A) Certifications may be accepted from individuals or organizations who are trained and experienced in the compliance, interpretation or enforcement of the applicable development standards for drawings and specifications. Plan certifiers may be any of the following:
(
1
) Licensed architects,
(
2
) Professional engineers,
(
3
) Plan reviewers certified by a national model code organization listed in exhibit E to this subpart,
(
4
) Local building officials authorized to review and approve building plans and specifications, or
(
5
) National codes organizations listed in exhibit E to this subpart.
(B) The license or authorization of the individual must be current at the time of the certification statement. A building permit (except as noted in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(C)(
2
) of this section) or professional's stamp is not an acceptable substitute for the certification statement. However, a code compliance review conducted by one of the National recognized code organizations indicating no deficiencies or the noted deficiencies have been corrected is an acceptable substitute for the certification statement.
(C) For Single Family Housing (one to four family dwelling units) the Agency may also accept drawings and specifications that have been certified by:
(
1
) Registered Professional Building Designers certified by the American Institute of Building Design.
(
2
) A local community, if that community has adopted, by reference, one of the model building codes and has trained official(s) who review(s) plans as well as inspect(s) construction for compliance as a requisite for issuing a building permit. The building permit, issued by the community, may serve as
evidence of acceptance. The State Director will determine eligible communities and publish, as a State supplement to this section, a list of those communities that qualify.
(
3
) A plan service that provides drawings and specifications that are certified by individuals or organizations as listed in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (f)(1)(iii)(C) (
1
) and (
2
) of this section as meeting the appropriate state adopted development standard.
(
4
) Builders/Contractors who provide 10-year warranty plans for the specific Agency finance dwelling unit that meet the requirements of exhibit L of this subpart.
(
5
) Builders/Contractors that are approved by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for self-certification.
(D) The modifications of certified drawings or specifications must be certified by the same individual or organization that certified the original drawings and specifications. If such individual or organization is not available, the entire set of modified drawings and specifications must be recertified.
(E) The certification of modifications for single family housing (SFH) construction may be waived if the builder or original author of the drawings and specifications provides a written statement that the modifications are not regulated by the applicable development standard. The County Supervisor may consult with the State Office Architect/Engineer as to acceptance of the statement and granting a waiver.
(F) All certifications of final drawings, specifications, and calculations shall be on Form RD 1924-25, “Plan Certification.”
(2)
Responsibility of the County Supervisor or District Director.
In accordance with program regulations for loans and grants they are required to process, the County Supervisor or District Director, for the sole benefit of the Agency, will:
(i) Visit each farm or site on which the development is proposed. For an FO loan, the County Supervisor and the applicant will determine the items of development necessary to put the farm in a livable and operable condition at the outset. Prepare Form RD 1924-1, when applicable in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert (FMI) for the form, after a complete understanding has been reached between the applicant and the County Supervisor regarding the development to be accomplished, including the dates each item of development will be started and completed.
(ii) Notify the loan or grant applicant in writing immediately if, after reviewing the preliminary proposal and inspecting the site, the proposal is not acceptable. If the proposal is acceptable, an understanding will be reached with the applicant concerning the starting date for each item of development.
(iii) Discuss with the applicant the Agency requirements with respect to good construction and land development practices.
(iv) Advise the applicant regarding drawings, specifications, cost estimates, and other related material which the applicant must submit to the Agency forreview before the loan can be developed. Advise the applicant of the information necessary in the drawings, how the cost estimates should be prepared, the number of sets of drawings, specifications, and cost estimates required, and the necessity for furnishing such information promptly. Advise the applicant that the Agency will provide appropriate specification forms, Form RD 1924-2, “Description of Materials,” and Form RD 1924-3, “Service Building Specifications.” The applicant may, however, use other properly prepared specifications.
(v) Advise the applicant regarding publications, plans, planning aids, engineering data, and other technical advice and assistance available through local, state, and Federal agencies, and private individuals and organizations.
(vi) Review the information furnished by the applicant to determine the completeness of the plans, adequacy of the cost estimates, suitability and soundness of the proposed development.
(vii) When appropriate, offer suggestions as to how drawings and specifications might be altered to improve the facility and better serve the needs of the applicant. The County Supervisor or District Director may assist the applicant in making revisions to the drawings. When appropriate, the contract documents will be forwarded to
the State architect/engineer for review. For revisions requiring technical determinations that the Agency is not able to make, the applicant will be requested to obtain additional technical assistance.
(viii) Provide the applicant with a written list of changes required in the contract documents. The applicant will submit two complete revised (as requested) sets of contract documents, for approval. On one set, the County Supervisor or District Director will indicate acceptance on each sheet of the drawings, and on the cover of the specifications and all other contract documents. At least the date and the initials of the approval official must be shown. On projects where a consulting architect or engineer has been retained, this acceptance will be indicated only after the State Director has given written authorization. The marked set of documents shall be available at the job site at all times for review by the Agency. The second set will become part of the loan docket.
(ix) Review the proposed method of doing the work and determine whether the work can be performed satisfactorily under the proposed method.
(x) Instruct the applicant not to incur any debts prior to loan closing for materials or labor or make any expenditures for such purposes with the expectation of being reimbursed from loan funds.
(xi) Instruct the applicant not to commence any construction nor cause any supplies or materials to be delivered to the construction site prior to loan closing.
(xii) Under certain conditions prescribed in exhibit H of this subpart, provide the applicant with a copy of the leaflet, “Warning—Lead-Based Paint Hazards,” which is attachment 1 of exhibit H (available in any Agency office), and the warning sheet, “Caution Note on Lead-Based Paint Hazard,” which is attachment 2 of exhibit H (available in any Agency office).
(g)
Surplus structures and use or sale of timber, sand, or stone.
In planning the development, the applicant and the County Supervisor or District Director should, when practicable, plan to use salvage from old buildings, timber, sand, gravel, or stone from the property. The borrower may sell surplus buildings, timber, sand, gravel, or stone that is not to be used in performing planned development and use net proceeds to pay costs of performing planned development work. In such a case:
(1) An agreement will be recorded in the narrative of Form RD 1924-1 which as a minimum will:
(i) Identify the property to be sold, the estimated net proceeds to be received, and the approximate date by which the property will be sold.
(ii) Provide that the borrower will deposit the net proceeds in the supervised bank account and apply any funds remaining after the development is complete as an extra payment on the loan, or in accordance with § 1965.13(f) of subpart A of part 1965 of this chapter for farm program loans.
(2) The agreement will be considered by the Government as modifying the mortgage contract to the extent of authorizing and requiring the Government to release the identified property subject to the conditions stated in the agreement without payment or other consideration at the time of release, regardless of whether or not the mortgage specifically refers to Form RD 1924-1 or the agreement to release.
(3) If the Agency loan will be secured by a junior lien, all prior lienholders must give written consent to the proposed sale and the use of the net proceeds before the loan is approved.
(4) Releases requested by the borrower or the buyer will be processed in accordance with applicable release procedures in 7 CFR part 3550, as appropriate.
(h)
Review prior to performing development work.
For the sole benefit of the Agency, prior to beginning development work, the County Supervisor or District Director will review planned development with the borrower. Adequacy of the drawings and specifications as well as the estimates will be checked to make sure the work can be completed within the time limits previously agreed upon and with available funds. Items and quantities of any materials the borrower has agreed to furnish will be checked and dates by which each item of development should be started will be checked in order that
the work may be completed on schedule. If any changes in the plans and specifications are proposed, they should be within the general scope of the work as originally planned. Changes must be approved and processed in accordance with § 1924.10 of this subpart. The appropriate procedure for performing development should be explained to the borrower. Copies of RD forms that will be used during the period of construction should be given to the borrower. The borrower should be advised as to the purpose of each form and at what period during construction each form will be used.
(i)
Time of starting development work.
Development work will be started as soon as feasible after the loan is closed. Except in cases in which advance commitments are made in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550 or according to § 1924.13(e)(1)(vi)(A) or § 1924.13(e)(2)(ix)(A) of this subpart, no commitments with respect to performing planned development will be made by the Agency or the applicant before the loan is closed. The applicant will be instructed that before the loan is closed, debts should not be incurred for labor or materials, or expenditures made for such purposes, with the expectation of being reimbursed from funds except as provided in subpart A of part 1943 of this chapter, 7 CFR part 3550, and subpart E of part 1944 of this chapter. However, with the prior approval of the National Office, a State Supplement may be issued authorizing County Supervisors to permit applicants to commence welldrilling operations prior to loan closing, provided:
(1) It is necessary in the area to provide the water supply prior to loan closing,
(2) The applicant agrees in writing to pay with personal funds all costs incurred if a satisfactory water supply is not obtained,
(3) Any contractors and suppliers understand and agree that loan funds may not be available to make the payment,
(4) Such action will not result under applicable State law in the giving of priority to mechanics and materialmen's liens over the later recorded Agency mortgage, and
(5) The Agency does not guarantee that the cost will be paid.
[52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 19283, May 22, 1987; 52 FR 48391, Dec. 22, 1987; 52 FR 48799, Dec. 28, 1987; 53 FR 43676, Oct. 28, 1988; 59 FR 43723, Aug. 25, 1994; 61 FR 65156, Dec. 11, 1996; 67 FR 78326, Dec. 14, 2002]
§ 1924.6
Performing development work.
All construction work will be performed by one, or a combination, of the following methods: Contract, borrower, mutual self-help, or owner-builder. All development work must be performed by a person, firm or organization qualified to provide the service. The mutual self-help method is performance of work by a group of families by mutual labor under the direction of a construction supervisor, as described in 7 CFR part 3550.
(a)
Contract method.
This method of development will be used for all major construction except in cases where it is clearly not possible to obtain a contract at a reasonable or competitive cost. Work under this method is performed in accordance with a written contract.
(1)
Forms used.
Form RD 1924-6, “Construction Contract,” will be used for SFH construction. Other contract documents for more complex construction, acceptable to the loan approval official and containing the requirements of subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter, may be used provided they are customarily used in the area and protect the interest of the borrower and the Government with respect to compliance with items such as the drawings, specifications, payments for work, inspections, completion, nondiscrimination in construction work and acceptance of the work. If needed, the Office of the General Counsel (OGC) will be consulted. The United States (including the Agency) will not become a party to a construction contract or incur any liability under it.
(2)
Contract provisions.
Contracts will have a listing of attachments and the provisions of the contract will include:
(i) The contract sum.
(ii) The dates for starting and completing the work.
(iii) The amount of liquidated damages to be charged.
(iv) The amount, method, and frequency of payment.
(v) Whether or not surety bonds will be provided.
(vi) The requirement that changes or additions must have prior written approval of the Agency.
(3)
Surety requirements.
(i) Unless an exception is granted in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section or when interim financing will be used, surety that guarantees both payment and performance in the amount of the contract will be furnished when one or more of the following conditions exist:
(A) The contract exceeds the applicable Rural Development Single Family Housing area loan limit as per 7 CFR 3550.63. (Loan limits are available at the local Rural Development field office.)
(B) The loan approval official determines that a surety bond appears advisable to protect the borrower against default of the contractor.
(C) The applicant requests a surety bond.
(D) The contract provides for partial payments in excess of the amount of 60 percent of the value of the work in place.
(E) The contract provides for partial payments for materials suitably stored on the site.
(ii) If surety bonds are required the construction contract must indicate that the contractor will furnish properly executed surety bonds prior to the start of any work. Exhibits F and G of this subpart as revised by OGC if necessary to comply with local or state statutory requirements will be used as the forms of payment bond and performance bond to be provided. Unless noncorporate surety is provided, the surety bonds may only be obtained from a corporate bonding company listed on the current Department of the Treasury Circular 570 (published annually in the
Federal Register
), as holding a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds and as legally doing business in the State where the land is located. Noncorporate sureties are not recommended and the State Director will be responsible for determining the acceptability of the individual or individuals proposed as sureties on the bonds. The State Director must determine that an individual or individuals proposed as sureties must have cash or other liquid assets easily convertible to cash in an amount at least equal to 25 percent more than the contract amount in order to be acceptable. The individual(s) will pledge such liquid assets in an amount equal to the contract amount. Fees charged for noncorporate sureties may not exceed fees charged by corporate sureties on bonds of equal amount and, in no case, may surety be provided by the applicant or any person or organization with an identity of interest in the applicant's operation. The United States (including the Agency) will incur no liability related in any way to a performance or payment bond provided in connection with a construction contract. The Agency will be named as co-obligee in the performance and payment bonds unless prohibited by state law.
(iii) When an experienced and reliable contractor cannot obtain payment and performance bonds meeting the surety requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the State Director may entertain a request from the applicant for an exception to the surety requirements. The applicant's request must specifically state why the proposed contractor is unable to obtain payment and performance bonds meeting the surety requirements, and why it is financially advantageous for the applicant to award the contract to the proposed contractor without the required bonds.
If the applicant's request is reasonable and justified, and if the proposed contractor is reliable and experienced in the construction of projects of similar size, design, scope, and complexity, the State Director may grant an exception to the surety requirements for loans or grants within the State Director's approval authority and accept one or a combination of the following:
(A) An unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit issued by a lending institution which has been reviewed and approved by OGC. In such cases, the construction contract must indicate that the contractor will furnish a properly executed letter of credit from a lending institution acceptable to the Agency prior to the start of any work.
The letter of credit must remain in effect until the date of final acceptance of work by the owner and the Agency. In addition, the letter of credit must stipulate that the lending institution, upon written notification by the Agency of the contractor's failure to perform under the terms of the contract, will advance funds up to the amount of the contract (including all Agency approved contract change orders) to satisfy all prior debts incurred by the contractor in performing the contract and all funds necessary to complete the work. Payments may be made to the contractor in accordance with paragraph (a)(12)(i)(C) of this section as if full surety bonds were being provided.
(B) If a letter of credit satisfying the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section cannot be obtained, the State Director may accept a deposit in the amount of the contract, into an interest or non-interest bearing supervised bank account. In such cases, the construction contract must indicate that the contractor will furnish the required deposit prior to the start of any work and that the funds shall remain on deposit until final acceptance of work by the owner and the Agency. Payments may be made to the contractor in accordance with paragraph (a)(12)(i)(C) of this section as if full surety bonds were being provided.
(C) When the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) (A) or (B) of this section can be met except that a surety bond, a letter of credit, and/or deposits are not obtainable in full amount of the contract, the State Director may accept an amount less than the full amount of the contract provided all of the following conditions are met:
(
1
) The contractor provides a surety bond, a letter of credit, or deposits in the greatest amount possible, and provides documentation indicating the reasons why amounts exceeding the proposed amount cannot be provided.
(
2
) The applicant agrees to the amount of the surety bond, letter of credit, or deposits proposed, and the State Director determines that the applicant has the financial capability to withstand any financial loss due to default of the contractor.
(
3
) In the opinion of the State Director, the proposed amount and the method of payment will provide adequate protection for the borrower and the Government against default of the contractor.
(
4
) The contract provides for partial payments not to exceed 90 percent of the value of the work in place for that portion of the total contract which is guaranteed by an acceptable surety bond, letter of credit, or deposits, and partial payments not to exceed 60 percent of the value of the work in place for that portion of the total contract which is not guaranteed by surety, letter of credit, or deposits.
Example:
Contractor has a surety bond which guarantees payment and performance in an amount of $150,000 which represents 75 percent of the total contract amount of $200,000. The contractor's first request for payment appears thus:
—Value of work in place is $10,000.
—Payment for work guaranteed by surety is 75 percent times $10,000 times 90 percent is $6,750.
—Payment for work not guaranteed by surety is 25 percent times $10,000 times 60 percent is $1,500.
—Authorized payment is $8,250.
(Each partial payment shall reflect values for work guaranteed by surety, letter of credit, or deposits, and work not so guaranteed).
(iv) In cases where the contractor does not obtain payment and performance bonds in accordance with the surety requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, or where an exception to the surety requirements is granted by the State Director, the following steps will be taken to protect the borrower and the government against latent obligations or defects in connection with the construction:
(A) The contractor will furnish a properly executed corporate latent defects bond or a maintenance bond in the amount of 10 percent of the construction contract; or
(B) An unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of 10 percent of the construction contract issued by a lending institution which has been reviewed and approved by OGC; or
(C) A cash deposit into an interest or non-interest bearing supervised bank account in the amount of 10 percent of the construction contract;
(D) The period of protection against latent obligations and/or defects shall be one year from the date of final acceptance of work by the owner and the Agency;
(E) Final payment shall not be rendered to the contractor until the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iv) (A), (B) or (C) of this section have been met;
(F) The contract will contain a clause indicating that the contractor agrees to provide surety or guarantee acceptable to the owner and the Agency against latent obligations and/or defects in connection with the construction.
(4)
Equal opportunity.
Section 1901.205 of subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter applies to all loans or grants involving construction contracts and subcontracts in excess of $10,000.
(5)
Labor standards provisions.
The provisions of the Davis-Bacon and related acts, which are published by the Department of Labor (29 CFR parts 1, 3 and 5), will apply when the contract involves either LH grant assistance, or 9 or more units in a project being assisted under the HUD section 8 housing assistance payment program for new construction.
(6)
Historical and archaeological preservation.
The provisions of subpart F of part 1901 of this chapter concerning the protection of historical and archaeological properties will apply to all construction financed, in whole or in part, by Agency loans and grants. These provisions have special applicability to development in areas designated by NRCS as Resource Conservation and Development (RC
D) areas. (See part 1942, subpart I of this chapter.)
(7)
Air and water acts.
Under Executive Order 11738, all loans or grants involving construction contracts for more than $100,000 must meet all the requirements of section 114 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7414) and section 308 of the Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C., section 1813). The contract should contain provisions obligating the contractor as a condition for the award of the contract as follows:
(i) To notify the owner of the receipt of any communication from Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) indicating that a facility to be utilized in the performance of the contract is under consideration to be listed on the EPA list of Violating Facilities. Prompt notification is required prior to contract award.
(ii) To certify that any facility to be utilized in the performance of any nonexempt contractor subcontract is not listed on the EPA list of Violating Facilities as of the date of contract award.
(iii) To include or cause to be included the above criteria and requirements of paragraphs (a)(7) (i) and (ii) of this section in every nonexempt subcontract, and that the contractor will take such action as the Government may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions.
(8)
Architectural barriers.
In accordance with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (Pub. L. 90-480), as implemented by the General Services Administration regulations (41 CFR 101-19.6) and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112) as implemented by 7 CFR, parts 15 and 15b, all facilities financed with Agency loans and grants and which are accessible to the public or in which people with disabilities may be employed or reside must be developed in compliance with this Act. Copies of the Act and Federal accessibility design standards may be obtained from the Executive Director, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, Washington, DC 20201.
(9)
National Environmental Policy Act.
Loans and grants, including those being assisted under the HUD section 8 housing assistance payment program for new construction, must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(10)
Obtaining bids and selecting a contractor.
(i) The applicant may select a contractor and negotiate a contract or contact several contractors and request each to submit a bid. For complex construction projects, refer also to § 1924.13(e) of this subpart.
(ii) When a price has already been negotiated by an applicant and a contractor, the County Supervisor, District Director or other appropriate
Agency official will review the proposed contract. If the contractor is qualified to perform the development and provide a warranty of the work and the price compares favorably with the cost of similar construction in the area, further negotiation is unnecessary. If the Agency official determines the price is too high or otherwise unreasonable, the applicant will be requested to negotiate further with the contractor. If a reasonable price cannot be negotiated or if the contractor is not qualified, the applicant will be requested to obtain competitive bids.
(iii) When an applicant has a proposed development plan and no contractor in mind, competitive bidding will be encouraged. The applicant should obtain bids from as many qualified contractors, dealers or tradespeople as feasible depending on the method and type of construction.
(iv) If the award of the contract is by competitive bidding, Form RD 1924-5, “Invitation for Bid (Construction Contract),” or another similar invitation bid form containing the requirements of subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter, may be used. All contractors from whom bids are requested should be informed of all conditions of the contract including the time and place of opening bids. Conditions shall not be established which would give preference to a specific bidder or type of bidder. When applicable, copies of Forms RD 1924-6 and RD 400-6, “Compliance Statement,” also should be provided to the prospective bidders.
(11)
Awarding the contract.
The borrower, with the assistance of the County Supervisor or District Director, will consider the amount of the bids or proposals, and all conditions which were listed in the “Invitation for Bid.” On the basis of these considerations, the borrower will select and notify the lowest responsible bidder.
(i) Before work commences, the County Supervisor, District Director or other Agency employee having knowledge of contracts and construction practices will hold a preconstruction conference with the borrower(s), contractor and architect/engineer (if applicable). The purpose of the conference is to reach a mutual understanding of each party's responsibilities under the terms and conditions of the contract documents and the loan agreement during the construction and warranty periods. Form RD 1924-16, “Record of Preconstruction Conference,” may be used as a guide for an agenda.
(ii) A summary of the items covered will be entered in the running case record.
(iii) The contract will then be prepared, signed and copies distributed in accordance with the FMI for Form RD 1924-6.
(iv) After a borrower/contractor's contract or subcontract in excess of $10,000 is received in the Agency County or District Office, the responsible Agency official will send within 10 calendar days of the date of the contract or subcontract, a report similar in form and content to exhibit C of subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter to the Area Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, at the applicable address listed in exhibit E, subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter. The report must contain, at least, the following information: contractor's name, address and telephone number; employer's identification number; amount, starting date and planned completion date of the contract; contract number; and city and DOL region of the contract site. The information for this report should be obtained from the contractor when the contract is awarded.
(12)
Payments for work done by the contract method.
(i) Payments will be made in accordance with one of the following methods unless prohibited by state statute, in which case the State Director shall issue a State Supplement to this section:
(A) The “One-Lump-Sum” payment method will be used when the payment will be made in one lump-sum for the whole contract.
(B) The “Partial payments not to exceed 60 percent of the value of the work in place” payment method will be used when the contractor does not provide surety bond, a letter of credit, or deposits.
(C) The “Partial payments in the amount of 90 percent of the value of the work in place and of the value of the materials suitably stored at the site” payment method will be used
when the contractor provides a surety bond equal to the total contract amount.
(D) The “Partial payments which reflect the portions of the contract amount which is guaranteed” method will be used when the contractor provides surety bonds, a letter of credit, or deposits less than the total amount of the contract in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.
(ii) When Form RD 1924-6 is used, the appropriate payment clause will be checked and the other payment clauses not used will be effectively crossed out.
(iii) When a contract form other than Form RD 1924-6 is used, the payment clause must conform with paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section and the appropriate clause as set forth in Form RD 1924-6.
(iv) The borrower and FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 must take precautionary measures to see that all payments made to the contractor are properly applied against bills for materials and labor procured under the contract. Prior to making any partial payment on any contract where a surety bond is not used, the contractor will be required to furnish the borrower and the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 with a statement showing the total amount owed to date for materials and labor procured under the contract. The contractor also may be required to submit evidence showing that previous partial payments were applied properly. When the borrower and the County Supervisor or District Director have reason to believe that partial payments may not be applied properly, checks may be made jointly to the contractor and persons who furnished materials and labor in connection with the contract.
(v) When partial payments are requested by the contractor and approved by the owner, the amount of the partial payment will be determined by one of the following methods:
(A) Based upon the percentage completed as shown on a recently completed and properly executed Form RD 1924-12, “Inspection Report.”
(B) When the structure will be covered by an insured 10-year warranty, the insurer's construction inspector must provide the Agency with any available copies of inspection reports showing percentage of completion immediately after the inspections are completed. To make partial payments when copies of inspection reports are not available, the responsible Agency official will make the inspections or will be guided by the provisions of § 1924.6(a)(12)(v)(C) of this subpart. If further assurance is deemed necessary to justify partial payments, the Agency official may make onsite inspections or require additional information.
(C) Based upon an application for payment containing an estimate of the value of work in place which has been prepared by the contractor and accepted by the borrower and the Agency. When the contract provides for partial payments for materials satisfactorily stored at the site, the application for payment may include these items. Prior to receiving the first partial payment, the contractor should be required to submit a list of major subcontractors and suppliers and a schedule of prices or values of the various phases of the work aggregating the total sum of the contract such as excavation, foundations, framing, roofing, siding, mill work, painting, plumbing, heating, electric wiring, etc., made out in such form as agreed upon by the borrower, the Agency, and the contractor. In applying for payments, the contractor should submit a statement based upon this schedule. See exhibit A of this subpart for guidance in reviewing the contractor's schedule of prices and estimating the value of the work in place.
(vi)
Final payment.
(A) When the structure will be covered by an insured 10-year warranty, the insurer must provide an insured 10-year warranty policy (or a binder if the policy is not available) before final payment is made to the builder.
(B) Final payment of the amount due on the contract or disbursal of the Agency loan funds where an interim loan was used will be made only upon completion of the entire contract, final inspection by the Agency, acceptance
of the work by the Agency and the borrower, issuance of any and all final permits and approvals for the use and occupancy of the structure by any applicable state and local governmental authorities, and compliance by the contractor with all terms and conditions of the contract. In the event the work of construction is delayed or interrupted by reason of fire, flood unusually stormy weather, war, riot, strike, an order, requisition or regulation of any governmental body (excluding delays related to possible defects in the contractor's performance and excluding delays caused by the necessity of securing building permits or any required inspection procedures connected therewith) or other contingencies reasonably unforeseeable and beyond the reasonable control of the contractor, then with the written consent of the Agency, the date of completion of the work may be extended by the owner by the period of such delay, provided that the contractor shall give the owner and the Agency written notice within 72 hours of the occurrence of the event causing the delay or interruption.
(C) Prior to making final payment on the contract when a surety bond is not used or disbursing Agency loan funds when an interim loan was used, the Agency will be provided with a Form RD 1924-9, “Certificate of Contractor's Release,” and Form RD 1924-10, “Release by Claimants.” executed by all persons who furnished materials or labor in connection with the contract. The borrower should furnish the contractor with a copy of the “Release by Claimants” form at the beginning of the work in order that the contractor may obtain these releases as the work progresses.
(
1
) If such releases cannot be obtained, the funds may be disbursed provided all the following can be met:
(
i
) Release statements to the extent possible are obtained;
(
ii
) The interests of the Agency can be adequately protected and its security position is not impaired; and
(
iii
) Adequate provisions are made for handling the unpaid account by withholding or escrowing sufficient funds to pay any such claims or obtaining a release bond.
(
2
) The State Director may issue a State Supplement which will:
(
i
) Not require the use of Form RD 1924-10, if, under existing state statutes, the furnishing of labor and materials gives no right to a lien against the property, or
(
ii
) Provide an alternative method to protect against mechanic's and materialmen's liens. In this case, the use of Form RD 1924-10 is optional.
(b)
Borrower method.
The borrower method means performance of work by or under the direction of the borrower, using one or more of the ways specified in this paragraph. Development work may be performed by the borrower method only when it is not practicable to do the work by the contract method; the borrower possesses or arranges through an approved self-help plan for the necessary skill and managerial ability to complete the work satisfactorily; such work not interfere seriously with the borrower's farming operation or work schedule, and the County Office caseload will permit a County Supervisor to properly advise the borrower and inspect the work.
(1)
Ways of performing the work.
The borrower will:
(i) Purchase the material and equipment and do the work.
(ii) Utilize lump-sum agreements for (A) minor items or minor portions of items of development, the total cost of which does not exceed $5,000 per agreement, such as labor, material, or labor and material for small service buildings, repair jobs, or land development; or (B) material and equipment which involve a single trade and will be installed by the seller, such as the purchase and installation of heating facilities, electric wiring, wells, painting, liming, or sodding. All agreements will be in writing, however, the County Supervisor may make an exception to this requirement when the agreement involves a relatively small amount.
(2)
Acceptance and storage of material on site.
The County Supervisor will advise the borrower that the acceptance of material as delivered to the site and the proper storage of material will be the borrower's responsibility.
(3)
Payment for work done by the borrower method
—(i)
Payments for labor.
Before the County Supervisor
countersigns checks for labor, the borrower must submit a completed Form RD 1924-11, “Statement of Labor Performed,” for each hired worker performing labor during the pay period. Ordinarily, checks for labor will be made payable to the workers involved. However, under justifiable circumstances, when the borrower has paid for labor with personal funds and has obtained signatures of the workers on Form RD 1924-11 as having received payment, the County Supervisor may countersign a check made payable to the borrower for reimbursement of these expenditures. Under no circumstances will the County Supervisor permit loan funds or funds withdrawn from the supervised bank account to be used to pay the borrower for the borrower's own labor or labor performed by any member of the borrower's household.
(ii)
Payment for equipment, materials or lump-sum agreements.
(A) Before countersigning checks for equipment or materials, the County Supervisor must normally have an invoice from the seller covering the equipment or materials to be purchased. When an invoice is not available at the time the check is issued, an itemized statement of the equipment or materials to be purchased may be substituted until a paid invoice from the seller is submitted, at which time the prepurchase statement may be destroyed.
(B) When an invoice is available at the time the check is drawn, the check will include a reference to the invoice number, the invoice date if unnumbered and, if necessary, the purpose of the expenditure.
(C) The check number and date of payment will be indicated on the appropriate Form RD 1924-11, invoice, itemized statement of equipment or materials and/or lump-sum agreement.
(D) Ordinarily, checks for equipment or materials will be made payable to the seller. Under justifiable circumstances, when the borrower has paid for equipment or materials with personal funds and furnished a paid invoice, the County Supervisor may countersign a check made payable to the borrower for reimbursement of these expenses.
(E) When an invoice includes equipment or materials for more than one item of development, the appropriate part of the cost to be charged against each item of development will be indicated on the invoice by the borrower, with the assistance of the County Supervisor.
(F) Payment made under lump-sum agreements will be made only when all items of equipment and materials have been furnished, labor has been performed as agreed upon, and the work has been accepted by the borrower and the Agency.
(G) Each paid Form RD 1924-11, invoice, itemized statement for equipment or material and/or lump-sum agreement will be given to the borrower in accordance with the FMI.
(c)
Mutual self-help method.
The mutual self-help method is performance of work by a group of families by mutual labor under the direction of a construction supervisor, as described in 7 CFR part 3550. The ways of doing the work, buying materials, and contracting for special services are like those used for the borrower method. Materials can be bought jointly by the group of families, but payments will be made individually by each family. In the case of RH loans to families being assisted by Self-Help Technical Assistance (TA) grants in accordance with subpart I of part 1944 of this chapter, the County Supervisor may countersign checks for materials and necessary contract work made payable directly to the TA grantee, provided the District Director determines that:
(1) The grantee acts in the same capacity as a construction manager in the group purchase of material and services.
(2) The grantee has an adequate bookkeeping system approved by the District Director to assure that funds in each RH account are properly distributed and maintained.
(3) The grantee receives no compensation in the way of profit or overhead for this service and all discounts and rebates received in connection with the purchase of materials or services are passed on to the participating families.
(4) The grantee has a record-keeping system which shows that the costs of
the materials and services were prorated to each borrower's account in relation to the actual material and service used by each borrower.
(d)
Owner-builder method.
This method of construction applies only to RRH loans made under subpart E of part 1944 of this chapter. Regulations governing this method are found at § 1924.13(e)(2) of this subpart.
[52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 41833, Oct. 16, 1990; 60 FR 55122, Oct. 27, 1995; 61 FR 56116, Oct. 31, 1996; 71 FR 25740, May 2, 2006; 81 FR 11029, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1924.7
[Reserved]
§ 1924.8
Development work for modular/panelized housing units.
(a) Exhibit B of this subpart applies to all loans involving modular/panelized housing units.
(b) Complete drawings and specifications will be required as prescribed in exhibit C of this subpart. Each set of drawings will contain the design of the foundation system required for the soil and slope conditions of the particular site on which the modular/panelized house is to be placed.
(c) The manufacturer will provide a certification (exhibit B, attachment 5 of this subpart), stating that the building has been built substantially in accordance with the drawings and specifications. The builder will also provide a certification that the onsite work complies with drawings, specifications, and the applicable development standard (eExhibit B, attachment 5 of this subpart).
(d) Responsibility for field inspections will be in accordance with § 1924.9(a) of this subpart. Frequency and timing of inspections will be in accordance with § 1924.9(b) of this subpart, except that the Stage 2 inspection should be made during the time and in no case later than two working days after the crews commence work on the site and the house is being erected or placed on the foundation, to determine compliance with the accepted drawings and specifications.
(e) Periodic plant inspections will be performed in accordance with paragraphs II and III of exhibit B of this subpart. Agency employees responsible for inspections in the area in which the manufacturing plant or material supply yard is located will perform such inspections as deemed necessary under paragraph III of exhibit B of this subpart.
(1) Plant inspections will be made if the type construction method used could restrict adequate inspections on the building site.
(2) Plant inspections will be made as often as necessary; however, after initial inspection and acceptance of the unit, only when it appears advisable to ascertain the performance and continuing stability of accepted materials and construction.
(f) Only one contract will be accepted for the completed house on the site owned or to be bought by the borrower. The manufacturer of the house or the manufacturer's agent may be the prime contractor for delivery and erection of the house on the site or a builder may contract with the borrower for the complete house in place on the site. Such contracts should provide that payments will be made only for work in place on the borrower's site.
(g) Payments for modular/panelized units will be made in accordance with the terms of the contract and in compliance with § 1924.6(a)(12) of this subpart.
§ 1924.9
Inspection of development work.
The following policies will govern the inspection of all development work.
(a)
Responsibility for inspection.
The County Supervisor or District Director, accompanied by the borrower when practicable, will make final inspection of all development work and periodic inspections as appropriate to protect the security interest of the government. In this respect, inspections other than final inspections, may be conducted by other qualified persons as authorized in paragraph (d) of this section, in 7 CFR part 3550, in RD Instruction 2024-A (available in any Agency office), and as authorized under other agreements executed by, or authorized by, the National Office.
The borrower will be responsible for making inspections necessary to protect the borrower's interest. Agency
inspectionsare not to assure the borrower that the house is built in accordance with the plans and specifications. The inspections create or imply no duty or obligation to the particular borrower. Agency inspections are for the dual purpose of determining that the Agency has adequate security for its loan and is achieving the statutory goal of providing adequate housing. If difficult technical problems are encountered, the County Supervisor or District Director should request the assistance of the State Office or a qualified technician from SCS or the State University Cooperative Extension Service.
(b)
Frequency of inspections.
The County Supervisor or District Director will inspect development work as frequently as necessary to assure that construction and land development conforms to the drawings and specifications. The final inspection will be made at the earliest possible date after completion of the planned development. When several major items of development are involved, final inspection will be made upon completion of each item.
(1) For new buildings and additions to existing buildings, inspections will be made at the following stages of construction and at such other stages of construction as determined by the County Supervisor or District Director except as modified by paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(i)
Stage 1.
Customarily, the initial inspection in construction cases is made just prior to or during the placement of concrete footings or monolithic footings and floor slabs. At this point, foundation excavations are complete, forms or trenches and steel are ready for concrete placement and the subsurface installation is roughed in. However, when it is not practicable to make the initial inspection prior to or during the placement of concrete, the County Supervisor or District Director will make the initial inspection as soon as possible after the placement of concrete and before any backfill is in place.
(ii)
Stage 2.
The Stage 2 inspection will be made when the building is enclosed, structural members are still exposed, roughing in for heating, plumbing, and electrical work is in place and visible, and wall insulation and vapor barriers are installed. Customarily, this is prior to installation of brick veneer or any interior finish which would include lath, wallboard and finish flooring.
(iii)
Stage 3.
The final inspection will be made when all on-site and off-site development has been completed and the structure is ready for occupancy or its intended use.
(2) For rehabilitation of existing buildings, inspections will be made in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, and at such other stages of construction to assure that construction is being performed in a professional manner and in accordance with Agency approved drawings and specifications.
(3) For new construction when the structure will be covered by an insured 10-year warranty plan as described in exhibit L of this subpart, only the final inspection is required, except in cases when partial payments are required when the provisions of § 1924.6(a)(12)(v) of this subpart will be followed.
(4) Arrangements should be made to have the borrower join the County Supervisor or the District Director in making periodic inspections as often as necessary to provide a mutual understanding with regard to the progress and performance of the work.
(5) The Borrower should make enough periodic visits to the site to be familiar with the progress and performance of the work, in order to protect the borrower's interest. If the borrower observes or otherwise becomes aware of any fault or defect in the work or nonconformance with the contract documents, the borrower should give prompt written notice thereof to the contractor with a copy to the County Supervisor or District Director responsible for servicing the type of loan or grant involved.
(6) The borrower should, when practicable, join the County Supervisor or District Director in making all final inspections.
(7) When irrigation equipment and materials are to be purchased and installed, a performance test under actual operating conditions by the person or firm making the installation should be required before final acceptance is
made. The test should be conducted in the presence of the borrower, a qualified technician, and, when practicable, the County Supervisor or District Director. If the Agency official is not present at the performance test, he or she should request the technician to furnish a report as to whether or not the installation meets the requirements of the plans and specifications.
(8) For irrigation and drainage construction or any dwelling construction where part or all of the work will be buried or backfilled, interim inspections should be made at such stages of construction that compliance with plans and specifications can be determined.
(c)
Recording inspections and correction of deficiencies.
All periodic and final inspections made by the County Supervisor or District Director will be recorded on Form RD 1924-12 in accordance with the FMI. The County Supervisor or District Director will be responsible for following up on the correction of deficiencies reported on Form RD 1924-12. When an architect/engineer is providing services on a project, the District Director should notify the architect/engineer immediately of any fault or defect observed in the work or of any nonconformance with the contract document. If the borrower or the contractor refuses to correct the deficiencies, the District Director will report the facts to the State Director who will determine the action to be taken. No inspection will be recorded as a final inspection until all deficiencies or nonconforming conditions have been corrected.
(d)
Acceptance by responsible public authority.
When local (city) county, state, or other public authority) codes and ordinances require inspections, final acceptance by the local authority having jurisdiction will be required prior to final inspection or acceptance by the Agency.
(e)
Acceptance by project architect.
If architectural services pursuant to § 1924.13(a) of this subpart have been obtained, final acceptance by the project architect pursuant to § 1924.13(a)(5)(v) of this subpart will be required prior to acceptance by the Agency.
[52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 55122, Oct. 27, 1995; 61 FR 2899, Jan. 30, 1996; 67 FR 78327, Dec. 24, 2002]
§ 1924.10
Making changes in the planned development.
The borrower may request changes in the planned development in accordance with this section.
(a)
Authority of the County Supervisor.
The County Supervisor is authorized to approve changes in the planned development involving loans and grants within the County Supervisor's approval authority provided:
(1) The change is for an authorized purpose and within the scope of the original proposal.
(2) Sufficient funds are deposited in the borrower's supervised bank account or with the interim lender, as appropriate, to cover the contemplated changes when the change involves additional funds to be furnished by the borrower.
(3) The change will not adversely affect the soundness of the operation or the Agency's security. If uncertain as to the probable effect the change would have on the soundness of the operation or Agency security, the County Supervisor will obtain advice from the District Director on whether to approve the change.
(4) If a surety bond has been provided on the full amount of the construction contract, the aggregate amount of all contract change orders on Form RD 1924-7, “Contract Change Order,” or other acceptable form will not exceed 20 percent of the original contract amount. Change orders for contracts on which a surety bond has been provided which increases the original contract amount by more than 20 percent may only be approved if additional surety is provided in the full revised amount of the contract. For purposes of this paragraph, letters of credit and deposits are not considered surety.
(5) Change orders for contracts on which letters of credit or deposits have been provided on the full amount of the contract which will increase the original contract amount are approved only
if additional letters of credit or deposits are provided in the full revised amount of the contract.
(6) Modifications have been certified in accordance with § 1924.5(f)(1)(iii) or certification has been waived in accordance with § 1924.5(f)(1)(iii)(C) of this subpart.
(b)
Authority of the District Director.
The District Director is authorized to approve changes in the development planned with RRH, RCH, and RHS loans and LH loans and grants within the District Director's approval authority, provided the conditions in § 1924.10(a) have been met. For such loans in excess of the District Director's approval authority, the borrower's request with the District Director's recommendation will be forwarded to the State Director for consideration.
(c)
Recording changes in the planned development.
(1) Changes should be accomplished only after Agency written approval. Changes will not be included in payment requests until approved by the borrower; the contractor, if applicable; the architect/engineer, if applicable; and the Agency loan approval official. Examples of changes requiring documentation are:
(i) Any changes in labor and materials and their respective costs.
(ii) Changes in facility design.
(iii) Any decrease or increase in unit-price on final measurements that are different from those shown in the bidding schedule.
(iv) Any increase or decrease in the time to complete the project.
(2) All changes shall be recorded in chronological order as follows:
(i) Contract method. Changes shall be numbered in sequence as they occur using Form RD 1924-7 with necessary attachments.
(ii) Borrower method. An increase or decrease in the cash cost, extension of time, transfer of funds between items, or an addition or deletion of items of development, will be summarized on the front of Form RD 1924-1 by striking through the original figures on items and writing in the changes. Changes made in the “Development Plan” in the working drawings, or in the plans and specifications will be dated and initialed by all parties.
(iii) Mutual self-help method. [See paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.]
(iv) Owner-builder method. [See paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.]
(3) All changes in facility design and/or materials must be certified in accordance with § 1924.5(f)(1)(iii) of this subpart.
§ 1924.11
District Director's review of incomplete development.
During monthly District Office work organization meetings and during regular visits to the County Office, the District Director will review the progress that is being made in completing development financed with loans within the District Director's and County Supervisor's responsibility.
(a) Once each year the District Director will make a comprehensive review of all development work not completed within the time scheduled. For incomplete development financed with loan or grant funds within the responsibility of the District Director, the District Director will take the necessary actions to assure that the borrower or grantee completes the planned development. For incomplete development financed with loan or grant funds within the responsibility of the County Supervisor, the District Director will give the necessary direction to the County Supervisor to assure completion of the work. In connection with these responsibilities, the District Director will consider:
(1) The current farm and home operations with respect to the need for the development as originally planned.
(2) Revisions to the development plan.
(3) Funds remaining in the supervised bank account.
(4) Need for additional funds.
(5) Personal funds that could be furnished by the borrower.
(6) Estimated completion dates.
(7) The borrower's attitude with respect to completing the development.
(b) After a complete review of the status of development in both the District and County Offices has been made, the District Director will make a written report to the State Director which will include observations and recommendations regarding incomplete development. The report may be
included in the District Director's regular report, and will include:
(1) The number of cases in which borrowers have not completed their development within 9, 15 or 24 months when authorized, and also the number of cases in which funds have been exhausted and the work is incomplete.
(2) The number of borrowers who have not completed their development within 3 years from the loan closing, and indicate the action that was taken in each such case.
(c) If the borrower has not completed development work within 3 years after the date of loan closing and the District Director has determined that the borrower cannot or will not complete the development, the District Director will so indicate on Form RD 1924-1 and request the State Director to withdraw, for application on the loan, any unused development funds remaining in the borrower's supervised bank account, if the borrower will not sign a check for a refund to the loan account.
§ 1924.12
Warranty of development work.
(a) Form RD 1924-19, “Builder's Warranty,” or an insured 10-year home warranty as described in exhibit L of this subpart, and normal trade warranties on items of equipment will be issued to the borrower at the completion of new building construction, dwelling rehabilitation by the contract method, all cases of newly completed and previously unoccupied dwellings or construction under conditional commitments issued to builders and sellers.
(b) If the warranty is not an insured 10-year warranty, a completed Form RD 1924-19, with warranty protection for 1 year, must be provided by the builder upon final acceptance of the work by the owner and the Agency. If an insured 10-year warranty is provided, the requirements of exhibit L of this subpart apply, and a copy of the warranty insurance policy or a binder must have been received by the Agency prior to disbursement of the final payment to the builder.
(c) If, for some reason, the warranty insurance policy cannot be issued, the contractor will be required to execute Form RD 1924-19 and the case will be forwarded to the State Director for consideration of debarment under the provisions of subpart M of part 1940 (available in any Agency office). The County Supervisor will assist the borrower to the extent necessary under the provisions of the warranty and subpart F of part 1924 of this chapter.
(d) The County Supervisor will take the following action prior to the expiration of the first year of the warranty period:
(1) As soon as the warranty has been executed, the follow-up date for sending Form RD 1924-21, “Notice of Expiration of First Year of Warranty,” which will be used for the 1 year warranty or the first year of the insured 10-year warranty, will be posted to the “Servicing and Supervision” section of the Management System card.
(2) Form RD 1924-21 is provided for use in notifying the borrower of the expiration date of the first year of the warranty. This letter will be mailed to the borrower early in the second month preceding the expiration date of the first year of the warranty period.
(3) If the County Supervisor or District Director does not hear from the borrower within 30 days, it can reasonably be assumed that no complaint exists or that any complaint has been satisfied unless information to the contrary has been received.
(4) If the borrower notifies the Agency that any complaint has not been satisfied, an onsite inspection shall be made as early as possible, but not later than 1 month preceding the expiration date of the first year of the warranty. The results of the inspection will be recorded on Form RD 1924-12. If the borrower has complaints, the case should be handled in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of part 1924 of this chapter, or as otherwise provided in this subpart.
[52 FR 8002, Mar. 13, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 14334, Apr. 11, 1989]
§ 1924.13
Supplemental requirements for more complex construction.
This section includes additional provisions that apply to planning and conduct of construction work on all multiple family housing projects and other projects that are more extensive in scope and more complex in nature than
individual housing units or farm buildings. This section will apply in addition to all other requirements contained elsewhere in this subpart.
(a)
Architectural services.
Complete architectural services, as defined in § 1924.4(o)(1) of this subpart are recommended on all projects. They are required for projects involving an LH grant and for all loans for RRH, RCH, and LH projects consisting of more than 4 units unless prior consent to making an exception to the requirements for complete architectural services is obtained from the National Office. If the applicant or contractor is an architect or organization with architectural capability, the applicant must, nevertheless, hire an independent qualified architect or architectural firm to inspect the construction work and perform other needed services during the construction and warranty phases. See Guide 4, attachment 1, “Attachment to AIA Document—Standard Form of Agreement Between Owner and Architect,” for further information (available in any Agency office).
(1)
Exception.
Any request for National Office consent to an exception being made for complete architectural services should include the proposed drawings and specifications, method of providing specific services, the comments and recommendations of the Agency State Architect, and any other pertinent information. The State Director must determine that any services for which an exception is requested can be performed by qualified State or District Office staff members.
(2)
Selecting the architect.
The applicant is responsible for selecting the architect. The District Director with the advice of the State architect/engineer should discuss with the applicant the selection of the architect for the job as early as possible to assist in the site selection and participate in early consultations regarding project scope and design.
(3)
Architectural fees.
Fees for architectural services shall not exceed the fee ordinarily charged by the profession for similar work when Agency financing is not involved. The fee should cover only the architectural services rendered by the architect. The reduction or elimination of any services described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section shall be directly reflected in the fee. Fees for special services rendered by the architects, such as the packaging of the loan application or additional nonarchitectural services, will not be authorized to be paid with loan funds.
(4)
Agreement between borrower and architect.
The borrower and the architect will execute a written agreement. The agreement must provide:
(i) The services listed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(ii) The amount of the fee and how it will be determined and paid.
(iii) That the agreement and any amendments to the agreement shall not be in full force and effect until concurred with in writing by the State Director or the State Director's delegate, and it will contain the following provision:
The Agency, as potential lender or insurer of funds to defray the costs of this agreement and without liability for any payments thereunder, hereby concurs in the form, content and the execution of this agreement.
Date
Agency Approval Official
Title
(5)
Specific services.
Architectural services will include six consecutive phases as follows:
(i)
Schematic design phase.
The architect will:
(A) Consult with the applicant to obtain available information pertinent to the project requirements.
(B) Consult with Agency State architect/engineer about Agency requirements and procedures.
(C) Assist in preparing the project design after analyzing engineering and survey data on the site selected by applicant.
(D) Prepare schematic design studies consisting of drawings and other documents illustrating the scale and relationship of project components for the applicant's approval.
(E) Submit estimates of current development costs based on current area, volume, or other unit costs.
(F) When the applicant and the Agency have accepted the schematic design studies and estimated development
costs, the project architect may be authorized to proceed with the next phase.
(ii)
Design development phase.
The architect will:
(A) Prepare the design development exhibits from the accepted schematic design studies for approval by the applicant. These exhibits should consist of drawings and other documents to fix and describe the size and character of the entire project as to structural, mechanical, and electrical systems, materials, and other essentials as appropriate.
(B) Submit a further statement of probable construction cost.
(C) Obtain applicant and Agency approval of drawings, specifications, and authorization to proceed with next phase.
(iii)
Construction documents phase.
The architect will:
(A) Prepare the working drawings and specifications from the approved design development drawings and set forth in detail the requirements for the construction of the entire project in accordance with applicable regulations and codes; for example, necessary bidding information, assistance in preparing bidding forms, conditions of the construction contract, and the form of agreement between applicant/owner and contractor.
(B) Submit a final and more comprehensive statement of probable development cost. It should show a breakdown of the estimated total development cost of the project and the various trades in enough detail for an adequate review.
(C) Obtain the acceptance of the applicant and the Agency for contract documents, including approval of the final drawings and specifications and authorization to proceed.
(D) Discuss with the applicant various items as they develop.
(iv)
Bidding or negotiation phase.
The architect will, as appropriate, for a bidded or negotiated contract:
(A) Assist in review and selection of bidders and submission of contract documents to selected bidders.
(B) Assist in the interpretation of drawings and specifications, and other contract documents.
(C) Receive and tabulate all bids.
(D) Review the bids and the negotiated proposals and assist in the award and preparation of construction contracts.
(v)
Construction phase.
This phase includes the administration of the construction contract. It will commence with the award of the construction contract and end when the borrower makes final payment to the contractor. The architect will:
(A) Attend the preconstruction conference. Advise and consult with the borrower (or the borrower's representative) and issue the borrower's instructions to the contractor.
(B) Prepare change orders.
(C) Keep construction accounts and work as the general administrator of the project during construction.
(D) Interpret the contract documents and have the authority to reject all work and materials which do not comply.
(E) Review and approve shop drawings, samples, and other submissions of the contractor for conformance with the design concept and for compliance with the contract documents.
(F) Conduct periodic inspections of all phases of construction to determine compliance with the contract documents and certify as to the amount is in place and materials suitably stored on site for partial payment estimates. These inspections will be augmented, when necessary, by inspections performed by structural, mechanical, and electrical representatives. Periodic inspections should be made as frequently as is necessary to verify that the work conforms with the intent of the contract documents and that a high quality of workmanship is maintained. The State Director may require a full-time project representative on projects with a total development cost of $750,000 or more, when in the opinion of the State Director there is a need for such representative, and the State Director states the reasons for such need to the borrower.
(G) Determine, based on the inspections, the dates of substantial completion and final completion; receive on the borrower's behalf all written guarantees and related documents assembled by the contractor; and issue a final certificate for payment.
(vi)
Warranty phase.
The architect will advise and consult with the borrower, as the borrower's representative, about items to be corrected within the warranty period. The architect will accompany the Agency representative during the inspection required one month prior to expiration of the warranty period.
(b)
Other professional services.
The State Director, on the recommendation of the State architect/engineer, may request that additional professional services be provided.
(1) Professional services typically include soils engineering, structural engineering, civil engineering, surveying, land planning, or professional cost estimation or certification. Fees for these services may be paid directly by the borrower or by the architect as reimbursable expenses.
(2) When a project representative is utilized, unless otherwise agreed, the representative will be provided by the consulting architect/engineer. Prior to the preconstruction conference, the architect/engineer will submit a resume of qualifications of the project representative to the applicant and to the Agency for acceptance in writing. If the applicant provided the project representative, the applicant must submit a resume of the representative's qualifications to the project architect/engineer and the Agency for acceptance in writing, prior to the preconstruction conference. The project representative will attend the preconstruction conference where duties and responsibilities will be fully discussed. The project representative will work under the general supervision of the architect/engineer. The project representative will maintain a daily diary in accordance with the following:
(i) The diary shall be maintained in a hard-bound book.
(ii) The diary shall have all pages numbered and all entries in ink.
(iii) All entries shall be on daily basis, beginning with the date and weather conditions.
(iv) Daily entries shall include daily work performed, number of men and equipment used in the performance of the work, and all significant happenings during the day.
(v) The diary shall be made available to Agency personnel and will be reviewed during project inspections.
(vi) The project representative's diary will become the property of the owner after the project is accepted and final payments are made.
(c)
Drawings.
The type and kinds of drawings should be in accordance with exhibit C of this subpart and subpart D of part 1944 of this chapter.
(1) The drawings must be clear, accurate, with adequate dimensions and of sufficient scale for estimating purposes.
(2) Construction sections and large-scale details sufficient for accurate bidding and for the purpose of correlating all parts of the work should be part of the general drawings. This is particularly important where the size of a project makes necessary the preparation of the general drawings at a scale of
1/8
inch equals 1 foot or less.
(3) Mechanical and electrical work should be shown on separate plans.
(4) Schedules should be provided for doors, windows, finishes, electrical fixtures, finish hardware, and any other specialty items necessary to clarify drawings.
(d)
Specifications.
Trade-type specifications (specifications divided into sections for various trades) should be used. The specifications should be complete, clear, and concise, with adequate description of the various classes of work shown under the proper sections and headings.
(e)
Methods of administering construction.
Projects involving a total development cost of less than $100,000 which do not include an LH grant may, with the approval of the State Director, follow the contract procedure in § 1924.6(a) of this subpart without modification. Construction of all other projects, however, will be administered by the contract method or owner-builder method as set forth in this section.
(1)
Contract method.
This method of development will be used for all complex construction except in cases where owner-builder method is authorized. Development under this method is done in accordance with § 1924.6(a) of this subpart except as modified by this paragraph. All construction work will
be completed under one written construction contract. Guide 1, “Contract Documents,” of this subpart (available in any Agency office) is provided to assist Agency personnel and applicants in assembling and reviewing contract documents for more complex construction such as that administered under this section.
(i)
Competitive bidding methods.
(A) All construction contracts must be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding unless an exception is granted in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section thereby permitting contract negotiation. The applicant's architect should prepare the bidding documents. Public notice must be given inviting all interested bidders to submit a bid. Prospective bidders may be contacted asking for their bids; however, public notice is necessary so that all local contractors have the opportunity to submit bids.
(B) A bid bond is required from each bidder in the amount of 5 percent of the bid price as assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of the bid, execute the required contract documents within the time specified.
(C) The construction contract will be awarded based on the contract cost, and all conditions listed in the “Invitation to Bid.”
(D) If advertising does not provide a satisfactory bid in the opinion of the applicant and the Agency, the applicant shall reject all bids and will then be free to negotiate with bidders on anyone else to obtain a satisfactory contract. The following conditions must be met:
(
1
) The State Director determines that the original competitive bid process was handled in a satisfactory manner and that there is no advantage to advertising for competitive bid again.
(
2
) The requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section are met.
(E) If there is no agreement by the Agency and the applicant as to the construction cost, the State Director will cease any further action on the preapplication and inform the applicant of the right to appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
(ii)
Contract documents.
Contract documents will conform with recognized professional practices as prescribed in this paragraph. Such contract documents will contain substantially the following:
Item I Invitation for Bids (Form RD 1924-5)
Item II Information for Bidders
Item III Bid
Item IV Bid Bond
Item V Agreement (Construction Contract)
Item VI Compliance Statement (Form RD 400-6)
Item VII General Conditions
Item VIII Supplemental General Conditions
Item IX Payment Bond (exhibit F of this subpart)
Item X Performance Bond (exhibit G of this subpart)
Item XI Notice of Award
Item XII Notice of Proceed
Item XIII Drawings and Specifications
Item XIV Addenda
Item XV Contract Change Order (Form RD 1924-7)
Item XVI Labor Standards Provisions [Where applicable]
Item XVII Monthly Employment Utilization Report (Form CC-257)
Item XVIII Partial Payment Estimate (Form RD 1924-18)
Item XIX Builder's Warranty (Form RD 1924-19)
(A) Substitution of term “architect” for “engineer” may be necessary on some of the forms. Other modifications may be necessary in some cases to conform to the nature and extent of the project. All such contract documents and related items will be concurred with by the State Director, with the assistance of OGC prior to the release of invitations to bid.
(B) Items listed as I through IV and item XI of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section may be omitted when an exception to the competitive bidding requirement is granted in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, thereby permitting a negotiated contract.
(C) All negotiated contracts shall include a provision to the effect that the borrower, USDA, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to a specific Federal loan program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions.
(D) A provision of liquidated damages
will
be included in all contracts. The liquidated damage amount must be reasonable and represent the best estimate possible of how much interest or other costs will accrue on the loan, and also represent any loss of rent or other income which would result from a delay in the completion of the project beyond the estimated completion date.
(E) All contracts shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3). This Act prohibits anyone from inducing any person in connection with the construction to give up any part of the compensation to which the person is otherwise entitled.
(F) All contracts will contain a certification by the applicant indicating that there is not now nor will there be an identity of interest between the applicant and any of the following: Contractor, architect, engineer, attorney, subcontractors, material suppliers, equipment lessors, or any of their members, directors, officers, stockholders, partners, or beneficiaries unless specifically identified to the Agency in writing prior to the award of the contract. All contracts must also indicate that when any identity of interest exists or comes into being, the contractor agrees to have construction costs as reported to the Agency on Form 1924-13, “Estimate and Certificate of Actual Cost,” audited by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Licensed Public Accountant (LPA) licensed prior to December 31, 1970, who will provide an opinion as to whether the Form RD 1924-13 presents fairly the costs of construction in conformity with eligible construction costs as prescribed in Agency regulations.
(G) All contracts on any form other than Form RD 1924-6, must contain the language of clause (D) of Form RD 1924-6, which is available in all Agency offices. The language of clause (D) of Form RD 1924-6 sets forth the Notice of Requirement for Affirmative Action to Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity required by Executive Order 11246, the Equal Opportunity clause published at 41 CFR 60-1.4 (a) and (b), and the Standard Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Construction Contract Specifications required by Executive Order 11246. For contract forms other than Form RD 1924-6, Form AD 767, “Equal Employment Opportunity Contract Compliance Notices,” which can be obtained from the Finance Office, should be attached and made a part of the contract.
(H) All contracts will contain a provision that they are not in full force and effect until concurred with by the State Director or the State Director's delegate, in writing. Therefore, before loan closing or before the start of construction, whichever occurs first, the State Director or the State Director's delegate will concur in the contract form, content, and execution if acceptable, by including the following paragraph at the end of the contract:
The Agency, as potential lender or insurer of funds to defray to costs of this contract, and without liability for any payments thereunder, hereby concurs in the form, content, and execution of this contract.
Date
Agency Official
Title
(I) The requirements of § 1924.6 (a)(11)(iv) of this subpart apply to all contracts or subcontracts in excess of $10,000.
(iii)
Surety.
When multiple advances of loan or grant funds are utilized, surety that guarantees both payment and performance in the full amount of the contract will be provided in accordance with § 1924.6(a)(3)(ii) of this subpart. Exceptions to the surety requirements shall be governed by the following:
(A) In accordance with the guidance and recommendations of OMB Circulars A-102 and A-110, exceptions to the surety requirements of § 1924.6(a)(3)(ii) of this subpart will not be granted for nonprofit organization or public body applicants.
(B) For loans or grants to applicants other than non-profit organizations or public bodies that are within the State Director's approval authority, the State Director may, upon request of the borrower or grantee, grant exceptions to the surety requirements in accordance with the provisions of § 1924.6(a)(3)(iii) of this subpart. Before
granting such an exception, however, the State Director should be provided the following information from the proposed contractor in order to fully evaluate the experience and capabilities of the contractor:
(
1
) A resume indicating the contractor's history, ability and experience.
(
2
) A current, dated and signed financial statement of the contractor's operations indicating the payment status of accounts and any contingent liabilities that may exist. Agency personnel will be responsible for analyzing the financial statement as to the sufficiency of the contractor's financial capability to carry out construction. The financial strength must demonstrate the ability of the contractor to pay all bills prior to receiving periodic draws of funds from the lender.
(
3
) A credit report (obtained at no expense to the Agency) attesting to the contractor's credit standing.
(
4
) A listing of trade references that could be contacted to substantiate the contractor's experience and good standing.
(
5
) Statements from owners for whom the contractor has done similar work, indicating the scope of the work and the owner's evaluation of the contractor's performance.
(C) For loans or grants to applicants other than non-profit organization or public bodies that are in excess of the State Director's approval authority, the State Director may request National Office authorization to grant one of the exceptions to the surety requirements as indicated in § 1924.6(a)(3)(iii) of this subpart. The following information must be submitted with the request to the National Office:
(
1
) An explanation of why interim financing is not available.
(
2
) An explanation of why the proposed contractor cannot obtain surety bonds meeting the requirements of § 1924.6(a)(3)(ii) of this subpart.
(
3
) The information listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(
4
) The drawings and specifications for the proposed project, together with the comments of the State architect/engineer.
(
5
) The applicant's written request for an exception.
(
6
) An explanation of why the requirements of § 1924.6(a)(3)(iii) (A) or (B) of this subpart cannot be met in those cases where the State Director requests authorization to grant an exception as indicated in § 1924.6(a)(3)(iii)(C) of this subpart. When such a request is made, the documentation required of the contractor under the provision must also be forwarded.
(
7
) The State Director's recommendation.
(D) Adequate steps will be taken to protect the interests of the borrower and the government in accordance with the payment provisions of § 1924.6(a)(12)(i) of this subpart and any alternative as outlined in § 1924.6(a)(3)(iii)(c) of this subpart.
(iv)
Contract cost breakdown.
In any case where the loan approval official feels it appropriate, and prior to the award or approval of any contract in which there is an identity of interest as defined in § 1924.4 (i) of this subpart, the contractor and any subcontractor, material supplier or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest must provide the applicant and the Agency with a trade-item cost breakdown of the proposed contract amount for evaluation. The cost of any surety as required by § 1944.222 (h) and (i) of subpart E of part 1944 of this chapter and § 1924.6(a)(3) of this subpart, or cost certification as required by paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section, will be included in the proposed contract amount and shown under General Requirements on Form RD 1924-13, which is available in all Agency offices. Agency personnel will be responsible for reviewing the estimates on Form RD 1924-13 to determine if the dollar amounts total correctly, to assure that costs are categorized under their appropriate columns, and to confirm that the estimated costs for all line items are reasonable and customary for the State.
(v)
Cost certification.
Whenever the State Director determines it appropriate, and in all situations where there is an identity of interest as defined in § 1924.4(i) of this subpart, the borrower, contractor and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor having an identity of interest must each provide certification
using Form RD 1924-13 as to the actual cost of the work performed in connection with the construction contract. The construction costs, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, must also be audited, in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, by a CPA, or LPA licensed on or before December 31, 1970. In addition, certain agreed upon procedures (available in any Agency office) will be performed in accordance with Attestation Standards. In some cases, the Agency will contract directly with a CPA or LPA for the cost certification. In that event, documentation necessary to have the costs of construction certified by an Agency contractor that they were the actual costs of the work performed, as reported on Form RD 1924-13, will be provided. Funds which were included in the loan for cost certification and which are ultimately not needed because Agency contracts for the cost certification will be returned on the loan. Agency personnel will utilize exhibit M of this subpart (available in any Agency office) and Form RD 1924-26, “Cost Certification Worksheet,” to assist in the evaluation of the cost certification process.
(A) Prior to the start of construction, the borrower, contractor and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest must submit, to the CPA or LPA, the accounting system that the borrower, contractor, subcontractor, material supplier or equipment lessor and/or the CPA or LPA proposes to set up and use in maintaining a running record of the actual cost. In order to be acceptable, the borrower must provide a written assertion that it has an accounting system that is suitably designed to provide for a trade-item basis comparison of the actual cost as compared to the estimated cost submitted on Form RD 1924-13. Costs pertaining to a specific line item will be set up in the accounting system for that particular account. For instance, only costs of materials, supplies, equipment, and labor associated with concrete will be shown in the concrete account. The accounting system must also restrict costs to those pertaining to a specific project so that costs from multiple projects will not be co-mingled. The independent CPA or LPA shall report on the borrower's assertion in accordance with the Standards for Attestation Engagements of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). The borrower's and the CPA or LPA's reports on the accounting system shall be provided to the Agency by the borrower.
(B) Prior to final payment to anyone required to cost certify, a trade-item breakdown showing the actual cost compared to the estimated cost must be provided to the owner and the Agency. Form RD 1924-13 is the form of comparative breakdown that must be used, and contains the certifications required of the applicant and contractor prior to final payment. The amounts for builder's general overhead, builder's profit, and general requirements, respectively, shall not exceed the amounts represented on the estimate of cost breakdown provided in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section for any contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor having or sharing an identity of interest with the borrower. The amounts for general overhead, builder's profit, and general requirements must be established prior to the Agency approving the construction contract and will not be changed during the course of construction. This applies to all contractors, subcontractors, material suppliers, or equipment lessors having or sharing an identity of interest with the applicant. Contract change orders will be processed to adjust the contract amount downward prior to the final payment to the contractor, if necessary, to assure that the amounts shown in the certificate of actual costs do not exceed the amounts represented in the contract cost breakdown. Reduction in the builder's profit, and general overhead if needed, will counterbalance any increase reflected in the contract costs. Any funds remaining as a result of hard cost savings will be applied to the account as an extra payment or used for eligible loan purposes approved by the Agency as long as the improvements are genuinely needed and will enhance marketability of the project. All increases or decreases of 15 percent or more in line item costs will require documentation as to the reason
for the increases and/or decreases. The State Director may require documentation for increases and/or decreases of less than 15 percent, if he/she determines it necessary. This information will be required with the cost certification.
(C) The CPA or LPA audit, performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, will include such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures of the borrower and the contractor (and any subcontractor, material supplier or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest) concerning the work performed, services rendered, and materials supplied in accordance with the construction contract he/she considers necessary to express an opinion on the construction costs as reported on Form RD 1924-13. The CPA or LPA shall also perform the additional agreed upon procedures specified by the Agency (available in any Agency office), performed in accordance with Attestation Standards, for the applicant and the contractor (and any subcontractor, material supplier, or equipment lessor sharing an identity of interest) concerning the work performed, services rendered, and materials supplied in accordance with the construction contract.
