(2) For certification of electric motors, including dedicated-purpose pool pump motors, it must be independent (as defined at § 429.2) of electric motor (including dedicated-purpose pool pump motor) manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers or vendors for which it is providing certification;
(3) It must be qualified to operate a certification system in a highly competent manner; and
(4) In the case of electric motors subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter, the certification program must have expertise in the content and application of the test procedures at § 431.16 of this subchapter and must apply the provisions at §§ 429.64 and 429.70(j); or
(5) In the case of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter, the certification program must have expertise in the content and application of the test procedures at § 431.484 of this subchapter and must apply the provisions at §§ 429.65 and 429.70(k).
(c)
Petition format.
Each petition requesting classification as a nationally recognized certification program must contain a narrative statement as to why the program meets the criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section, must be signed on behalf of the organization operating the program by an authorized representative, and must be accompanied by documentation that supports the narrative statement. The following provides additional guidance as to the specific criteria:
(1)
Standards and procedures.
A copy of the standards and procedures for operating a certification system and for granting a certificate of conformity should accompany the petition.
(2)
Independent status.
The petitioning organization must describe how it is independent (as defined at § 429.2)
from electric motor, including dedicated-purpose pool pump motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers, vendors, and trade associations.
(3)
Qualifications to operate a certification system.
Experience in operating a certification system should be described and substantiated by supporting documents within the petition. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in the application of guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 65, “General requirements for bodies operating product certification systems” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3), ISO/IEC Guide 27, “Guidelines for corrective action to be taken by a certification body in the event of either misapplication of its mark of conformity to a product, or products which bear the mark of the certification body being found to subject persons or property to risk” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3), and ISO/IEC Guide 28, “General rules for a model third-party certification system for products” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3), as well as experience in overseeing compliance with the guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, “General requirements for the competence of calibration and testing laboratories” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3).
(4)
Expertise in test procedures
—(i)
General.
This part of the petition should include items such as, but not limited to, a description of prior projects and qualifications of staff members. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in applying guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, “General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3), and with energy efficiency testing of the equipment to be certified.
(ii)
Electric motors subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter.
The petition should set forth the program's experience with the test procedures detailed in § 431.16 of this subchapter and the provisions in §§ 429.64 and 429.70(j).
(iii)
Dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter.
The petition should set forth the program's experience with the test procedures detailed in § 431.484 of this subchapter and the provisions in §§ 429.65 and 429.70(k).
(d)
Disposition.
The Department will evaluate the petition in accordance with § 429.75, and will determine whether the applicant meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section for classification as a nationally recognized certification program.
(e)
Periodic evaluation.
Within one year after publication of any final rule regarding electric motors, a nationally recognized certification program must evaluate whether they meet the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section and must either submit a letter to DOE certifying that no change to its program is needed to continue to meet the criteria in paragraph (b) or submit a letter describing the measures implemented to ensure the criteria in paragraph (b) are met. A certification program will continue to be classified by the Department of Energy as being nationally recognized in the United States until DOE concludes otherwise.
[87 FR 63651, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 429.74
Department of Energy recognition of accreditation bodies for electric motors, including dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.
(a)
Petition.
To be classified by the Department of Energy as an accreditation body, an organization must submit a petition to the Department requesting such classification, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and § 429.75. The petition must demonstrate that the organization meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Evaluation criteria.
To be classified as an accreditation body by the Department, the organization must meet the following criteria:
(1) It must have satisfactory standards and procedures for conducting and administering an accreditation system and for granting accreditation. This must include provisions for periodic audits to verify that the laboratories receiving its accreditation continue to conform to the criteria by which they
were initially accredited, and for withdrawal of accreditation where such conformance does not occur, including failure to provide accurate test results.
(2) It must be independent (as defined at § 429.2) of electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers or vendors for which it is providing accreditation.
(3) It must be qualified to perform the accrediting function in a highly competent manner.
(4)(i) In the case of electric motors subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter, the organization must be an expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies at § 431.16 of this subchapter and § 429.64.
(ii) In the case of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter, the organization must be an expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies at § 431.484 of this subchapter and § 429.65.
(c)
Petition format.
Each petition requesting classification as an accreditation body must contain a narrative statement as to why the program meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, must be signed on behalf of the organization operating the program by an authorized representative, and must be accompanied by documentation that supports the narrative statement. The following provides additional guidance:
(1)
Standards and procedures.
A copy of the organization's standards and procedures for operating an accreditation system and for granting accreditation should accompany the petition.
(2)
Independent status.
The petitioning organization must describe how it is independent (as defined at § 429.2) from electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers, vendors, and trade associations.
(3)
Qualifications to do accrediting.
Experience in accrediting should be discussed and substantiated by supporting documents. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in the application of guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 58, “Calibration and testing laboratory accreditation systems—General requirements for operation and recognition” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3), as well as experience in overseeing compliance with the guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, “General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3).
(4)
Expertise in test procedures.
The petition should set forth the organization's experience with the test procedures and methodologies test procedures and methodologies at § 431.16 of this subchapter and § 429.64. This part of the petition should include items such as, but not limited to, a description of prior projects and qualifications of staff members. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in applying the guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, “General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories,” (referenced for guidance only,
see
§ 429.3) to energy efficiency testing for electric motors.
(d)
Disposition.
The Department will evaluate the petition in accordance with § 429.75, and will determine whether the applicant meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section for classification as an accrediting body.
[87 FR 63652, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 429.75
Procedures for recognition and withdrawal of recognition of accreditation bodies or certification programs.
(a)
Filing of petition.
Any petition submitted to the Department pursuant to § 429.73(a) or § 429.74(a), shall be entitled “Petition for Recognition” (“Petition”) and must be submitted to the Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Building Technologies Office, Appliance and Equipment Standards Program, EE-5B, 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20585-0121, or via email (preferred submittal method) to
AS_Motor_Petitions@ee.doe.gov.
In accordance with the provisions set forth in 10 CFR 1004.11, any request for confidential treatment of any information contained in such a Petition or in supporting documentation must be accompanied by a copy of the Petition or supporting documentation from which
the information claimed to be confidential has been deleted.
(b)
Public notice and solicitation of comments.
DOE shall publish in the
Federal Register
the Petition from which confidential information, as determined by DOE, has been deleted in accordance with 10 CFR 1004.11 and shall solicit comments, data and information on whether the Petition should be granted. The Department shall also make available for inspection and copying the Petition's supporting documentation from which confidential information, as determined by DOE, has been deleted in accordance with 10 CFR 1004.11. Any person submitting written comments to DOE with respect to a Petition shall also send a copy of such comments to the petitioner.
(c)
Responsive statement by the petitioner.
A petitioner may, within 10 working days of receipt of a copy of any comments submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, respond to such comments in a written statement submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. A petitioner may address more than one set of comments in a single responsive statement.
(d)
Public announcement of interim determination and solicitation of comments.
The Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy shall issue an interim determination on the Petition as soon as is practicable following receipt and review of the Petition and other applicable documents, including, but not limited to, comments and responses to comments. The petitioner shall be notified in writing of the interim determination. DOE shall also publish in the
Federal Register
the interim determination and shall solicit comments, data, and information with respect to that interim determination. Written comments and responsive statements may be submitted as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(e)
Public announcement of final determination.
The Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy shall as soon as practicable, following receipt and review of comments and responsive statements on the interim determination, publish in the
Federal Register
notification of final determination on the Petition.
(f)
Additional information.
The Department may, at any time during the recognition process, request additional relevant information or conduct an investigation concerning the Petition. The Department's determination on a Petition may be based solely on the Petition and supporting documents, or may also be based on such additional information as the Department deems appropriate.
(g)
Withdrawal of recognition
—(1)
Withdrawal by the Department.
If DOE believes that an accreditation body or certification program that has been recognized under § 429.73 or § 429.74, respectively, is failing to meet the criteria of paragraph (b) of the section under which it is recognized, or if the certification program fails to meet the provisions at § 429.73(e), the Department will issue a Notice of Withdrawal (“Notice”) to inform such entity and request that it take appropriate corrective action(s) specified in the Notice. The Department will give the entity an opportunity to respond. In no case shall the time allowed for corrective action exceed 180 days from the date of the notice (inclusive of the 30 days allowed for disputing the bases for DOE's notification of withdrawal). If the entity wishes to dispute any bases identified in the Notice, the entity must respond to DOE within 30 days of receipt of the Notice. If after receiving such response, or no response, the Department believes satisfactory correction has not been made, the Department will withdraw its recognition from that entity.
(2)
Voluntary withdrawal.
An accreditation body or certification program may withdraw itself from recognition by the Department by advising the Department in writing of such withdrawal. It must also advise those that use it (for an accreditation body, the testing laboratories, and for a certification organization, the manufacturers) of such withdrawal.
(3)
Notice of withdrawal of recognition.
The Department will publish in the
Federal Register
notification of any withdrawal of recognition that occurs pursuant to this paragraph.
[87 FR 63652, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 429.76
Portable electric spas.
(a)
Determination of represented values.
Manufacturers must determine the represented values for each basic model of portable electric spas by testing in conjunction with the following provisions.
(1) For spa covers:
(i) If a basic model is distributed in commerce with multiple covers designated by the spa manufacturer for use with the basic model, a manufacturer must determine all represented values for that basic model based on the cover that results in the highest standby loss, except that the manufacturer may choose to identify specific individual combinations of spa and cover as additional basic models.
(ii) If a basic model is distributed in commerce with no cover designated by the spa manufacturer for use with the basic model, a manufacturer must determine all represented values for that basic model by testing as specified in section 3.1.5.2 of appendix GG to subpart B of this part.
(2) The sampling requirements of § 429.11 are applicable to portable electric spas; and
(3) For each basic model of portable electric spas, a sample of sufficient size must be randomly selected and tested to ensure that any representation of standby loss or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the higher of:
(i) The mean of the sample, where:
ER13JN23.005
and
x
is the sample mean, n is the number of samples, and x
i
is the i
th
sample; or,
(ii) The upper 95 percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.05, where:
ER13JN23.006
and
x
is the sample mean, s is the sample standard deviation, n is the number of samples, and t
0.95
is the t statistic for a 95 percent one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from appendix A of subpart B of part 429).
(4) The represented value of standby loss must be a whole number of watts.
(5) The represented value of fill volume of a basic model must be a whole number of gallons that is within 5 gallons of the mean of the fill volumes measured for the units in the sample selected as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
[88 FR 38627, June 13, 2023]
Pt. 429, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 429—Student's t-Distribution Values for Certification Testing
Figure 1—t-Distribution Values for Certification Testing
[One-Sided]
Degrees of freedom
(from Appendix A)
Confidence Interval
90%
95%
97.5%
99%
1
3.078
6.314
12.71
31.82
2
1.886
2.920
4.303
6.965
3
1.638
2.353
3.182
4.541
4
1.533
2.132
2.776
3.747
5
1.476
2.015
2.571
3.365
6
1.440
1.943
2.447
3.143
7
1.415
1.895
2.365
2.998
8
1.397
1.860
2.306
2.896
9
1.383
1.833
2.262
2.821
10
1.372
1.812
2.228
2.764
11
1.363
1.796
2.201
2.718
12
1.356
1.782
2.179
2.681
13
1.350
1.771
2.160
2.650
14
1.345
1.761
2.145
2.624
15
1.341
1.753
2.131
2.602
16
1.337
1.746
2.120
2.583
17
1.333
1.740
2.110
2.567
18
1.330
1.734
2.101
2.552
19
1.328
1.729
2.093
2.539
20
1.325
1.725
2.086
2.528
[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24780, May 2, 2011]
Pt. 429, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 429—Nominal Full-Load Efficiency Table for Electric Motors
99.0
96.5
88.5
68
36.5
98.9
96.2
87.5
66
34.5
98.8
95.8
86.5
64
98.7
95.4
85.5
62
98.6
95
84
59.5
98.5
94.5
82.5
57.5
98.4
94.1
81.5
55
98.2
93.6
80
52.5
98
93
78.5
50.5
97.8
92.4
77
48
97.6
91.7
75.5
46
97.4
91
74
43.5
97.1
90.2
72
41
96.8
89.5
70
38.5
[87 FR 63653, Oct. 19, 2022]

# Subpart C—Enforcement
§ 429.100
Purpose and scope.
This subpart describes the enforcement authority of DOE to ensure compliance with the conservation standards and regulations.
§ 429.102
Prohibited acts subjecting persons to enforcement action.
(a) Each of the following actions is prohibited:
(1) Failure of a manufacturer to provide, maintain, permit access to, or copying of records required to be supplied under the Act and this part or failure to make reports or provide other information required to be supplied under the Act and this part, including but not limited to failure to properly certify covered products and covered equipment in accordance with § 429.12 and §§ 429.14 through 429.66;
(2) Failure to test any covered product or covered equipment subject to an applicable energy conservation standard in conformance with the applicable test requirements prescribed in 10 CFR parts 430 or 431;
(3) Deliberate use of controls or features in a covered product or covered equipment to circumvent the requirements of a test procedure and produce test results that are unrepresentative of a product's energy or water consumption if measured pursuant to DOE's required test procedure;
(4) Failure of a manufacturer to supply at the manufacturer's expense a requested number of covered products or covered equipment to a designated test laboratory in accordance with a test notice issued by DOE;
(5) Failure of a manufacturer to permit a DOE representative to observe any testing required by the Act and this part and inspect the results of such testing;
(6) Distribution in commerce by a manufacturer or private labeler of any new covered product or covered equipment that is not in compliance with an applicable energy conservation standard prescribed under the Act;
(7) Distribution in commerce by a manufacturer or private labeler of a basic model of covered product or covered equipment after a notice of noncompliance determination has been issued to the manufacturer or private labeler;
(8) Knowing misrepresentation by a manufacturer or private labeler by certifying an energy use or efficiency rating of any covered product or covered equipment distributed in commerce in a manner that is not supported by test data;
(9) For any manufacturer, distributor, retailer, or private labeler to distribute in commerce an adapter that—
(i) Is designed to allow an incandescent lamp that does not have a medium screw base to be installed into a fixture or lamp holder with a medium screw base socket; and
(ii) Is capable of being operated at a voltage range at least partially within 110 and 130 volts; or
(10) For any manufacturer or private labeler to knowingly sell a product to a distributor, contractor, or dealer with knowledge that the entity routinely violates any regional standard applicable to the product.
(b) When DOE has reason to believe that a manufacturer or private labeler has undertaken a prohibited act listed in paragraph (a) of this section, DOE may:
(1) Issue a notice of noncompliance determination;
(2) Impose additional certification testing requirements;
(3) Seek injunctive relief;
(4) Assess a civil penalty for knowing violations; or
(5) Undertake any combination of the above.
(c)
Violations of regional standards.
(1) It is a violation for a distributor to knowingly sell a product to a contractor or dealer with knowledge that the entity will sell and/or install the product in violation of any regional standard applicable to the product.
(2) It is a violation for a distributor to knowingly sell a product to a contractor or dealer with knowledge that the entity routinely violates any regional standard applicable to the product.
(3) It is a violation for a contractor or dealer to knowingly sell to and/or install for an end user a central air conditioner subject to regional standards with the knowledge that such product will be installed in violation of any regional standard applicable to the product.
(4) A “product installed in violation” includes:
(i) A complete central air conditioning system that is not certified as a complete system that meets the applicable standard. Combinations that were previously validly certified may be installed after the manufacturer has discontinued the combination, provided all combinations within the basic model, including for single-split-system AC with single-stage or two-stage compressor at least one coil-only combination as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, comply with the regional standard applicable at the time of installation.
(ii) An outdoor unit with no match (
i.e.
, that is not offered for sale with an indoor unit) that is not certified as part of a combination that meets the applicable standard.
(iii) An outdoor unit that is part of a certified combination rated less than the standard applicable in the region in which it is installed or, where applicable, an outdoor unit with no certified coil-only combination as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that meets the standard applicable in the region in which it is installed.
[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 4145, Jan. 25, 2016; 81 FR 45402, July 14, 2016; 87 FR 53639, Aug. 31, 2022; 87 FR 64586, Oct. 25, 2022]
§ 429.104
Assessment testing.
(a) DOE may, at any time, test a basic model to assess whether the basic
model is in compliance with the applicable energy conservation standard(s).
(b) For variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 btu/h), when DOE may require that the manufacturer of a basic model ship at its expense any means of control for the basic model necessary for conducting testing in accordance with Appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431 of this subchapter.
[87 FR 63895, Oct. 20, 2022]
§ 429.106
Investigation of compliance.
(a) DOE may initiate an investigation that a basic model may not be compliant with an applicable conservation standard, certification requirement or other regulation at any time.
(b) DOE may, at any time, request any information relevant to determining compliance with any requirement under parts 429, 430 and 431, including the data underlying certification of a basic model. Such data may be used by DOE to make a determination of compliance or noncompliance with an applicable standard.
§ 429.110
Enforcement testing.
(a)
General provisions.
(1) If DOE has reason to believe that a basic model is not in compliance it may test for enforcement.
(2) For variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h), when determining compliance with an energy conservation standard based on IEER, DOE may test for enforcement if DOE has reason to believe that a basic model is not in compliance, has invalid certified operational settings for critical parameter values, or has an otherwise invalid certified rating.
(3) DOE will select and test units pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section.
(4) Testing will be conducted at a laboratory accredited to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), “General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories,” ISO/IEC 17025:2005(E) (incorporated by reference; see § 429.4). If testing cannot be completed at an independent laboratory, DOE, at its discretion, may allow enforcement testing at a manufacturer's laboratory, so long as the lab is accredited to ISO/IEC 17025:2005(E) and DOE representatives witness the testing. In addition, for commercial packaged boilers with rated input greater than 5,000,000 Btu/h, DOE, at its discretion, may allow enforcement testing of a commissioned commercial packaged boiler in the location in which it was commissioned for use, pursuant to the test provisions at § 431.86(c) of this chapter, for which accreditation to ISO/IEC 17025:2005(E) would not be required.
(b)
Test notice.
(1) To obtain units for enforcement testing to determine compliance with an applicable standard, DOE will issue a test notice addressed to the manufacturer in accordance with the following requirements:
(i) DOE will send the test notice to the manufacturer's certifying official or other company official.
(ii) The test notice will specify the basic model that will be selected for testing, the method of selecting the test sample, the maximum size of the sample and the size of the initial test sample, the dates at which testing is scheduled to be started and completed, and the facility at which testing will be conducted. The test notice may also provide for situations in which the selected basic model is unavailable for testing and may include alternative models or basic models.
(iii) DOE will state in the test notice that it will select the units of a basic model to be tested from the manufacturer, from one or more distributors, and/or from one or more retailers. If any unit is selected from a distributor or retailer, the manufacturer shall make arrangements with the distributor or retailer for compensation for or replacement of any such units.
(iv) DOE may require in the test notice that the manufacturer of a basic model ship or cause to be shipped from a retailer or distributor at its expense the requested number of units of a basic model specified in such test notice to the testing laboratory specified in the test notice. The manufacturer
shall ship the specified initial test unit(s) of the basic model to the testing laboratory within 5 working days from the time unit(s) are selected. For variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 btu/h) the manufacturer shall also ship any means of control necessary for conducting testing in accordance with appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431 of this subchapter. The manufacturer may ship the means of control separately from the system(s) selected for testing.
(v) If DOE determines that the units identified are low-volume or built-to-order products, DOE will contact the manufacturer to develop a plan for enforcement testing in lieu of paragraphs (ii)-(iv) of this section.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Test unit selection.
(1) To select units for testing from a:
(i) Manufacturer's warehouse, distributor, or other facility affiliated with the manufacturer. DOE will select a batch sample at random in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (e) of this section and the conditions specified in the test notice. DOE will randomly select an initial test sample of units from the batch sample for testing in accordance with appendices A through C of this subpart. DOE will make a determination whether an alternative sample size will be used in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.
(ii) Retailer or other facility not affiliated with the manufacturer. DOE will select an initial test sample of units at random that satisfies the minimum units necessary for testing in accordance with the provisions in appendices A through C of this subpart and the conditions specified in the test notice. Depending on the results of the testing, DOE may select additional units for testing from a retailer in accordance with appendices A through C of this subpart. If the full sample is not available from a retailer, DOE will make a determination whether an alternative sample size will be used in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.
(iii) Previously commissioned commercial packaged boilers with a rated input greater than 5,000,000 Btu/h. DOE may test a sample of at least one unit in the location in which it was commissioned for use.
(2) Units tested in accordance with the applicable test procedure under this part by DOE or another Federal agency, pursuant to other provisions or programs, may count toward units in the test sample.
(3) The resulting test data shall constitute official test data for the basic model. Such test data will be used by DOE to make a determination of compliance or noncompliance if a sufficient number of tests have been conducted to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and appendices A through C of this subpart.
(d)
Test unit preparation.
(1) Prior to and during testing, a test unit selected for enforcement testing shall not be prepared, modified, or adjusted in any manner unless such preparation, modification, or adjustment is allowed by the applicable DOE test procedure. One test shall be conducted for each test unit in accordance with the applicable test procedures prescribed in parts 430 and 431.
(2) No quality control, testing or assembly procedures shall be performed on a test unit, or any parts and subassemblies thereof, that is not performed during the production and assembly of all other units included in the basic model.
(3) A test unit shall be considered defective if such unit is inoperative or is found to be in noncompliance due to failure of the unit to operate according to the manufacturer's design and operating instructions. Defective units, including those damaged due to shipping or handling, shall be reported immediately to DOE. DOE may authorize testing of an additional unit on a case-by-case basis.
(e)
Basic model compliance.
DOE will evaluate whether a basic model complies with the applicable energy conservation standard(s) based on testing conducted in accordance with the applicable test procedures specified in parts 430 and 431 of this chapter, and with the following statistical sampling procedures:
(1) For products with applicable energy conservation standard(s) in § 430.32
of this chapter, and commercial prerinse spray valves, illuminated exit signs, traffic signal modules and pedestrian modules, commercial clothes washers, dedicated-purpose pool pumps, circulator pumps, and metal halide lamp ballasts, DOE will use a sample size of not more than 21 units and follow the sampling plans in appendix A of this subpart (Sampling for Enforcement Testing of Covered Consumer Products and Certain High-Volume Commercial Equipment).
(2) For automatic commercial ice makers; commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers; refrigerated bottled or canned vending machines; commercial air conditioners and heat pumps; commercial packaged boilers; commercial warm air furnaces; commercial water heating equipment; and walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer doors, panels, and refrigeration systems, DOE will use an initial sample size of not more than four units and follow the sampling plans in appendix B to this subpart.
(3) If fewer than four units of a basic model are available for testing (under paragraphs (e)(1) or (2) of this section) when the manufacturer receives the notice, then:
(i) DOE will test the available unit(s); or
(ii) If one or more other units of the basic model are expected to become available within 30 calendar days, DOE may instead, at its discretion, test either:
(A) The available unit(s) and one or more of the other units that subsequently become available (up to a maximum of four); or
(B) Up to four of the other units that subsequently become available.
(4) For distribution transformers, DOE will use an initial sample size of not more than five units and follow the sampling plans in appendix C of this subpart (Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Distribution Transformers). If fewer than five units of a basic model are available for testing when the manufacturer receives the test notice, then:
(i) DOE will test the available unit(s); or
(ii) If one or more other units of the basic model are expected to become available within 30 calendar days, DOE may instead, at its discretion, test either:
(A) The available unit(s) and one or more of the other units that subsequently become available (up to a maximum of five); or
(B) Up to five of the other units that subsequently become available.
(5) For pumps subject to the test procedures specified in § 431.464(a) of this chapter, DOE will use an initial sample size of not more than four units and will determine compliance based on the arithmetic mean of the sample.
(6) For uninterruptible power supplies, if a basic model is certified for compliance to the applicable energy conservation standard(s) in § 430.32 of this chapter according to the sampling plan in § 429.39(a)(2)(iv)(A) of this chapter, DOE will use a sample size of not more than 21 units and follow the sampling plan in appendix A of this subpart (Sampling for Enforcement Testing of Covered Consumer Products and Certain High-Volume Commercial Equipment). If a basic model is certified for compliance to the applicable energy conservation standard(s) in § 430.32 of this chapter according to the sampling plan in § 429.39(a)(2)(iv)(B) of this chapter, DOE will use a sample size of at least one unit and follow the sampling plan in appendix D of this subpart (Sampling for Enforcement Testing of Uninterruptible Power Supplies).
(7) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section, if testing of the available or subsequently available units of a basic model would be impractical, as for example when a basic model has unusual testing requirements or has limited production, DOE may in its discretion decide to base the determination of compliance on the testing of fewer than the otherwise required number of units.
(8) When DOE makes a determination in accordance with paragraph (e)(7) of this section to test less than the number of units specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section, DOE will base the compliance determination on the results of such testing in accordance with appendix B of this subpart (Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Covered Equipment and Certain Low-Volume Covered Products)
using a sample size (n
1
) equal to the number of units tested.
(9) For the purposes of this section, available units are those that are available for distribution in commerce within the United States.
[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 4145, Jan. 25, 2016; 81 FR 31841, May 20, 2016; 81 FR 89304, Dec. 9, 2016; 81 FR 89822, Dec. 12, 2016; 81 FR 95800, Dec. 28, 2016; 82 FR 36918, Aug. 7, 2017; 87 FR 57298, Sept. 19, 2022; 87 FR 63895, Oct. 20, 2022; 88 FR 28837, May 4, 2023]
§ 429.114
Notice of noncompliance and notice to cease distribution of a basic model.
(a) In the event that DOE determines a basic model is noncompliant with an applicable energy conservation standard, or if a manufacturer or private labeler determines a basic model to be in noncompliance, DOE may issue a notice of noncompliance determination to the manufacturer or private labeler. This notice of noncompliance determination will notify the manufacturer or private labeler of its obligation to:
(1) Immediately cease distribution in commerce of the basic model;
(2) Give immediate written notification of the determination of noncompliance to all persons to whom the manufacturer has distributed units of the basic model manufactured since the date of the last determination of compliance; and
(3) Provide DOE, within 30 calendar days of the request, records, reports and other documentation pertaining to the acquisition, ordering, storage, shipment, or sale of a basic model determined to be in noncompliance.
(b) In the event that DOE determines a manufacturer has failed to comply with an applicable certification requirement with respect to a particular basic model, DOE may issue a notice of noncompliance determination to the manufacturer or private labeler. This notice of noncompliance determination will notify the manufacturer or private labeler of its obligation to:
(1) Immediately cease distribution in commerce of the basic model;
(2) Immediately comply with the applicable certification requirement; and/or
(3) Provide DOE within 30 days of the request, records, reports and other documentation pertaining to the acquisition, ordering, storage, shipment, or sale of the basic model.
(c) If a manufacturer or private labeler fails to comply with the required actions in the notice of noncompliance determination as set forth in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the General Counsel (or delegee) may seek, among other remedies, injunctive action and civil penalties, where appropriate.
(d) The manufacturer may modify a basic model determined to be noncompliant with an applicable energy conservation standard in such manner as to make it comply with the applicable standard. Such modified basic model shall then be treated as a new basic model and must be certified in accordance with the provisions of this part; except that in addition to satisfying all requirements of this part, any models within the basic model must be assigned new model numbers and the manufacturer shall also maintain, and provide upon request to DOE, records that demonstrate that modifications have been made to all units of the new basic model prior to distribution in commerce.
§ 429.116
Additional certification testing requirements.
Pursuant to § 429.102(b)(2), if DOE determines that independent, third-party testing is necessary to ensure a manufacturer's compliance with the rules of this part, part 430, or part 431, a manufacturer must base its certification of a basic model under subpart B of this part on independent, third-party laboratory testing.
§ 429.118
Injunctions.
If DOE has reason to seek an injunction under the Act:
(a) DOE will notify the manufacturer, private labeler or any other person as required, of the prohibited act at issue and DOE's intent to seek a judicial order enjoining the prohibited act unless the manufacturer, private labeler or other person, delivers to DOE within 15 calendar days a corrective action and compliance plan, satisfactory to DOE, of the steps it will take to ensure that the prohibited act ceases.
DOE will monitor the implementation of such plan.
(b) If the manufacturer, private labeler or any other person as required, fails to cease engaging in the prohibited act or fails to provide a satisfactory corrective action and compliance plan, DOE may seek an injunction.
§ 429.120
Maximum civil penalty.
Any person who knowingly violates any provision of § 429.102(a) may be subject to assessment of a civil penalty of no more than $575 for each violation. As to § 429.102(a)(1) with respect to failure to certify, and as to § 429.102(a)(2), (5) through (9), each unit of a covered product or covered equipment distributed in violation of such paragraph shall constitute a separate violation. For violations of § 429.102(a)(1), (3), and (4), each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation for each basic model at issue.
[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 41794, June 28, 2016; 81 FR 96351, Dec. 30, 2016; 83 FR 1291, Jan. 11, 2018; 83 FR 66083, Dec. 26, 2018; 85 FR 830, Jan. 8, 2020; 86 FR 2955, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 1063, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 2193, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1028, Jan. 9, 2024; 89 FR 105406, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 429.122
Notice of proposed civil penalty.
(a) The General Counsel (or delegee) shall provide notice of any proposed civil penalty.
(b) The notice of proposed penalty shall:
(1) Include the amount of the proposed penalty;
(2) Include a statement of the material facts constituting the alleged violation; and
(3) Inform the person of the opportunity to elect in writing within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notice to have the procedures of § 429.128 (in lieu of those of § 429.126) apply with respect to the penalty.
§ 429.124
Election of procedures.
(a) In responding to a notice of proposed civil penalty, the respondent may request:
(1) An administrative hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) under § 429.126 of this part; or
(2) Elect to have the procedures of § 429.128 apply.
(b) Any election to have the procedures of § 429.128 apply may not be revoked except with the consent of the General Counsel (or delegee).
(c) If the respondent fails to respond to a notice issued under § 429.120 or otherwise fails to indicate its election of procedures, DOE shall refer the civil penalty action to an ALJ for a hearing under § 429.126.
§ 429.126
Administrative law judge hearing and appeal.
(a) When elected pursuant to § 429.124, DOE shall refer a civil penalty action brought under § 429.122 of this part to an ALJ, who shall afford the respondent an opportunity for an agency hearing on the record.
(b) After consideration of all matters of record in the proceeding, the ALJ will issue a recommended decision, if appropriate, recommending a civil penalty. The decision will include a statement of the findings and conclusions, and the reasons therefore, on all material issues of fact, law, and discretion.
(c)(1) The General Counsel (or delegee) shall adopt, modify, or set aside the conclusions of law or discretion contained in the ALJ's recommended decision and shall set forth a final order assessing a civil penalty. The General Counsel (or delegee) shall include in the final order the ALJ's findings of fact and the reasons for the final agency actions.
(2) Any person against whom a penalty is assessed under this section may, within 60 calendar days after the date of the final order assessing such penalty, institute an action in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate judicial circuit for judicial review of such order in accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code. The court shall have jurisdiction to enter a judgment affirming, modifying, or setting aside in whole or in part, the final order, or the court may remand the proceeding to the Department for such further action as the court may direct.
§ 429.128
Immediate issuance of order assessing civil penalty.
(a) If the respondent elects to forgo an agency hearing pursuant to § 429.124, the General Counsel (or delegee) shall issue an order assessing the civil penalty proposed in the notice of proposed penalty under § 429.122, 30 calendar days after the respondent's receipt of the notice of proposed penalty.
(b) If within 60 calendar days of receiving the assessment order in paragraph (a) of this section the respondent does not pay the civil penalty amount, DOE shall institute an action in the appropriate United States District Court for an order affirming the assessment of the civil penalty. The court shall have authority to review de novo the law and the facts involved and shall have jurisdiction to enter a judgment enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so modified, or setting aside in whole or in part, such assessment.
§ 429.130
Collection of civil penalties.
If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty after it has become a final and unappealable order under § 429.126 or after the appropriate District Court has entered final judgment in favor of the Department under § 429.128, the General Counsel (or delegee) shall institute an action to recover the amount of such penalty in any appropriate District Court of the United States. In such action, the validity and appropriateness of such final assessment order or judgment shall not be subject to review.
§ 429.132
Compromise and settlement.
(a) DOE may compromise, modify, or remit, with or without conditions, any civil penalty (with leave of court if necessary).
(b) In exercising its authority under paragraph (a) of this section, DOE may consider the nature and seriousness of the violation, the efforts of the respondent to remedy the violation in a timely manner, and other factors as justice may require.
(c) DOE's authority to compromise, modify or remit a civil penalty may be exercised at any time prior to a final decision by the United States Court of Appeals if § 429.126 procedures are utilized, or prior to a final decision by the United States District Court, if § 429.128 procedures are utilized.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, DOE or the respondent may propose to settle the case. If a settlement is agreed to by the parties, the respondent is notified and the case is closed in accordance with the terms of the settlement.
§ 429.134
Product-specific enforcement provisions.
(a)
General.
The following provisions apply to assessment and enforcement testing of the relevant products and equipment.
(b)
Refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and freezers
—(1)
Verification of total refrigerated volume.
The total refrigerated volume of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of total refrigerated volume certified by the manufacturer. The certified total refrigerated volume will be considered valid only if:
(i) The measurement is within two percent, or 0.5 cubic feet (0.2 cubic feet for compact products), whichever is greater, of the certified total refrigerated volume, or
(ii) The measurement is greater than the certified total refrigerated volume.
(A) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be valid, the certified adjusted total volume will be used as the basis for calculation of maximum allowed energy use for the basic model.
(B) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be invalid, the average measured adjusted total volume, rounded to the nearest 0.1 cubic foot, will serve as the basis for calculation of maximum allowed energy use for the tested basic model.
(2)
Test for models with two compartments, each having its own user-operable temperature control.
The test described in section 5.2(b) of the applicable test procedure for refrigerators or refrigerator-freezers in appendix A to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 shall be used for all units of a tested basic model before DOE makes a determination of noncompliance with respect to the basic model.
(c)
Clothes washers
—(1)
Determination of Remaining Moisture Content.
These provisions address anomalous remaining moisture content (RMC) results that are not representative of a basic model's performance, as well as differences in RMC values that may result from DOE using a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model.
(i) When testing according to appendix J to subpart B of part 430:
(A) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is equal to or lower than the certified RMC value of the basic model (expressed as a percentage), then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value and will be used as the basis for the calculation of per-cycle energy consumption for removal of moisture from the test load for that unit.
(B) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would not affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(C) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then:
(
1
) If DOE used the same test cloth lot that was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
2
) If DOE used a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then:
(
i
) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model by more than three RMC percentage points, then a value three RMC percentage points less than the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
ii
) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model, but by no more than three RMC percentage points, then the certified RMC value of the basic model will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(ii) When testing according to appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430:
(A) The procedure for determining remaining moisture content (RMC) will be performed once in its entirety, pursuant to the test requirements of section 3.8 of appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430, for each unit tested.
(B) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is equal to or lower than the certified RMC value of the basic model (expressed as a percentage), then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value and will be used as the basis for the calculation of per-cycle energy consumption for removal of moisture from the test load for that unit.
(C) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but by no more than two RMC percentage points and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would not affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(D) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but by no more than two RMC percentage points and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then:
(
1
) If DOE used the same test cloth lot that was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the measured RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
2
) If DOE used a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the certified RMC value of the basic model would be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(E) If the measured RMC value of a tested unit is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model by more than two RMC percentage points, then DOE will perform two replications of the RMC measurement procedure, each
pursuant to the provisions of section 3.8.5 of appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430, for a total of three independent RMC measurements of the tested unit. The average of the three RMC measurements will be calculated.
(
1
) If the average of the three RMC measurements is equal to or lower than the certified RMC value of the basic model, then the average RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
2
) If the average of the three RMC measurements is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model but the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would not affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then the average RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
3
) If the average of the three RMC measurements is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then DOE will apply paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(F) of this section.
(F) If the average of the three RMC measurements is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model and the difference between the measured and certified RMC values would affect the unit's compliance with the applicable standards, then:
(
1
) If DOE used the same test cloth lot that was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then the average RMC pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E) of this section will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
2
) If DOE used a different test cloth lot than was used by the manufacturer for testing and certifying the basic model, then:
(
i
) If the average RMC value pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D) of this section is higher than the certified valued of the basic model by more than three RMC percentage points, then a value three RMC percentage points less than the average RMC value will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(
ii
) If the average RMC value pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D) of this section is higher than the certified RMC value of the basic model, but by no more than three RMC percentage points, then the certified RMC value of the basic model will be considered the tested unit's final RMC value.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Residential Water Heaters and Residential-Duty Commercial Water Heaters
—(1)
Verification of first-hour rating and maximum GPM rating.
The first-hour rating or maximum gallons per minute (GPM) rating of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The mean of the measured values will be compared to the rated values of first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating as certified by the manufacturer. The certified rating will be considered valid only if the measurement is within five percent of the certified rating.
(i) If the rated value of first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating is found to be within 5 percent of the mean of the measured values, then the rated value will be used as the basis for determining the applicable draw pattern pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested.
(ii) If the rated value of first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating is found to vary more than 5 percent from the measured values, then the mean of the measured values will serve as the basis for determining the applicable draw pattern pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested.
(2)
Verification of rated storage volume.
The storage volume of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix E to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The mean of the measured values will be compared to the rated storage volume as certified by the manufacturer. The rated value will be considered valid only if the measurement is within 3 percent of the certified rating.
(i) If the rated storage volume is found to be within 3 percent of the mean of the measured value of storage volume, then the rated value will be used as the basis for calculation of the required uniform energy factor for the basic model.
(ii) If the rated storage volume is found to vary more than 3 percent from
the mean of the measured values, then the mean of the measured values will be used as the basis for calculation of the required uniform energy factor for the basic model.
(3)
Verification of fuel input rate.
The fuel input rate of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of section 5.2.3 of 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix E. The measured fuel input rate (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measured fuel input rate is within ±2 percent of the certified rated input.
(i) If the certified rated input is found to be valid, then the certified rated input will be used to determine compliance with the associated energy conservation standard.
(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for gas-fired or oil-fired water heating products is not within ±2 percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will be used to determine compliance with the associated energy conservation standard.
(4)
Circulating water heaters.
A storage tank for testing will be selected as described in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. The effective storage volume of the circulating water heater determined in testing will be measured in accordance with appendix E to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 with the storage tank that is used for testing.
(i)
Electric heat pump circulating water heaters.
For UEF and first-hour rating testing, electric heat pump circulating water heaters will be tested with a minimally-compliant electric storage water heater (as defined at § 430.2 of this chapter) that has a rated storage volume of between 25 and 35 gallons, and is in the low draw pattern, as determined in accordance with appendix E to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430 and the standards set at § 430.32(d) of this chapter. If the manufacturer certifies the specific model of electric storage water heater used for testing to determine the certified UEF and first-hour rating of the electric heat pump circulating water heater, that model of electric storage water heater will be used for testing. If this is not possible (such as if the electric storage water heater model is no longer available or has been discontinued), testing will be performed with an electric storage water heater that has a minimally-compliant UEF rating, in the low draw pattern, and a rated storage volume that is within ± 3 gallons of the rated storage volume of the electric storage water heater used to determine the certified ratings of the electric heat pump circulating water heater (but not less than 25 gallons and not greater than 35 gallons). If no such model is available, then testing will be performed with a minimally-compliant electric storage water heater that has a rated storage volume of between 25 and 35 gallons and is in the low draw pattern.
(ii)
All other circulating water heaters.
For UEF and first-hour rating testing, circulating water heaters are paired with unfired hot water storage tanks (“UFHWSTs”) that have certified storage volumes between 80 and 120 gallons and are at exactly the minimum thermal insulation standard, in terms of R-value, for UFHWSTs, as per the standards set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. Testing will be performed as follows:
(A) If the manufacturer certifies the specific model of UFHWST used for testing to determine the certified UEF and first-hour rating of the circulating water heater, that model of UFHWST will be used for testing.
(B) If it is not possible to perform testing with the same model of UFHWST certified by the manufacturer, testing will be carried out with a different model of UFHWST accordingly:
(1) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from the same manufacturer as the certified UFHWST, with the same certified storage volume as the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,
(2) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from a different manufacturer than the certified UFHWST, with the same certified storage volume as the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not
exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,
(3) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from the same manufacturer as the certified UFHWST, having a certified storage volume within ±5 gallons of the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,
(4) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST from a different manufacturer than the certified UFHWST, having a certified storage volume within ±5 gallons of the certified UFHWST, and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter. If this is not possible,
(5) Testing will be performed with an UFHWST having a certified storage volume between 80 gallons and 120 gallons and with a certified R-value that meets but does not exceed the standard set at § 431.110(a) of this chapter.
(e)
Packaged terminal air conditioners and packaged terminal heat pumps
—(1)
Verification of cooling capacity.
The total cooling capacity of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of cooling capacity certified by the manufacturer. The certified cooling capacity will be considered valid only if the average measured cooling capacity is within five percent of the certified cooling capacity.
(i) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be valid, that cooling capacity will be used as the basis for calculation of minimum allowed EER (and minimum allowed COP for PTHP models) for the basic model.
(ii) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured cooling capacity will serve as the basis for calculation of minimum allowed EER (and minimum allowed COP for PTHP models) for the tested basic model.
(2) [Reserved]
(f)
Dehumidifiers
—(1)
Verification of capacity.
The capacity will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of capacity certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified capacity will be considered valid only if the measurement is within five percent, or 1.00 pint per day, whichever is greater, of the certified capacity.
(i) If the certified capacity is found to be valid, the certified capacity will be used as the basis for determining the minimum energy factor or integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.
(ii) If the certified capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured capacity of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the minimum energy factor or integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.
(2)
Verification of whole-home dehumidifier case volume.
The case volume will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of case volume certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified case volume will be considered valid only if the measurement is within two percent, or 0.2 cubic feet, whichever is greater, of the certified case volume.
(i) If the certified case volume is found to be valid, the certified case volume will be used as the basis for determining the minimum integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.
(ii) If the certified case volume is found to be invalid, the average measured case volume of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the minimum integrated energy factor allowed for the basic model.
(g)
Commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment (excluding air-cooled equipment with a cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h).
Before May 15, 2025, the provisions in 10 CFR 429.134, revised as of January 1, 2024, are applicable. On and after May 15, 2025, the following provisions apply.
(1)
Verification of cooling capacity.
The cooling capacity of each tested unit of
the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix A or appendix A1 to subpart F of part 431. The mean of the cooling capacity measurement(s) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.
(2)
Specific components.
For assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to energy conservation standards denominated in terms of IVEC and IVHE, if a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 7 to § 429.43(a)(3)(vi)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(vi)(A)(
1
)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.
(3)
Verification of cut-out and cut-in temperatures.
For assessment and enforcement testing of models of commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment subject to energy conservation standards denominated in terms of IVHE, the cut-out and cut-in temperatures may be verified using the method in appendix H to AHRI 1340-2023 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4). If this method is conducted, the cut-in and cut-out temperatures determined using this method will be used to calculate IVHE for purposes of compliance.
(h)
Residential boilers—test protocols for functional verification of automatic means for adjusting water temperature.
These tests are intended to verify the functionality of the design requirement that a boiler has an automatic means for adjusting water temperature for single-stage, two-stage, and modulating boilers. These test methods are intended to permit the functional testing of a range of control strategies used to fulfill this design requirement. Section 2,
Definitions,
and paragraph 6.1.a of appendix EE to subpart B of part 430 of this chapter apply for the purposes of this paragraph (h).
(1)
Test protocol for all products other than single-stage products employing burner delay.
This test is intended to verify whether an automatic means for adjusting water temperature other than burner delay produces an incremental change in water supply temperature in response to an incremental change in inferred heat load.
(i)
Boiler setup
—(A)
Boiler installation.
Boiler installation in the test room shall be in accordance with the setup and apparatus requirements of section 6 of appendix EE to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.
(B)
Establishing flow rate and temperature rise.
Start the boiler without enabling the means for adjusting water temperature. Establish a water flow rate that allows for a water temperature rise of greater than or equal to 20 °F at maximum input rate.
(C)
Temperature stabilization.
Temperature stabilization is deemed to be obtained when the boiler supply water temperature does not vary by more than ±3 °F over a period of five minutes.
(D)
Adjust the inferential load controller.
(
1
) Adjust the boiler controls (in accordance with the I
O manual) to the default setting that allows for activation of the means for adjusting water temperature. For boiler controls that do not allow for control adjustment during active mode operation, terminate call for heat and adjust the inferential load controller in accordance with the I
O manual and then reinitiate call for heat.
(
2
) If the means for adjusting water temperature uses outdoor temperature reset, the maximum outdoor temperature setting (if equipped) should be set to a temperature high enough that the boiler operates continuously during the duration of this test (
i.e.,
if the conditions in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section equal room ambient temperature, then the maximum outdoor temperature should be set at a temperature greater than the ambient air temperature during the test).
(ii)
Establish low inferred load conditions at minimum boiler supply water temperature
—(A)
Establish low inferred load conditions.
(
1
) Establish the inferred load conditions (simulated using a controlling parameter, such as outdoor temperature, thermostat patterns, or boiler cycling) so that the supply water temperature is maintained at the minimum supply water temperature prescribed by the boiler manufacturer's
temperature reset control strategy found in the I
O manual.
(
2
) The minimum supply water temperature of the default temperature reset curve is usually provided in the I
O manual. If there is no recommended minimum supply water temperature, set the minimum supply water temperature equal to 20 °F less than the high supply water temperature specified in paragraph (h)(1)(iii)(A) of this section.
(B)
Supply water temperature stabilization at low inferred load.
(
1
) Maintain the call for heat until the boiler supply water temperature has stabilized. Temperature stabilization is deemed to be obtained when the boiler supply water temperature does not vary by more than ±3 °F over a period of five minutes. The duration of time required to stabilize the supply water, following the procedure in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, is dependent on the reset strategy and may vary from model to model.
(
2
) Record the boiler supply water temperature while the temperature is stabilized.
(iii)
Establish high inferred load conditions at maximum boiler supply water temperature
—(A)
Establish high inferred load conditions.
Establish the inferred load conditions so that the supply water temperature is set to the maximum allowable supply water temperature as prescribed in the I
O manual, or if there is no recommendation, set to a temperature greater than 170 °F.
(B)
Supply water temperature stabilization at high inferred load.
(
1
) Maintain the call for heat until the boiler supply water temperature has stabilized. Temperature stabilization is deemed to be obtained when the boiler supply water temperature does not vary by more than ±3 °F over a period of five minutes. The duration of time required to stabilize the supply water, following the procedure in paragraph (h)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, is dependent on the reset strategy and may vary from model to model.
(
2
) Record the boiler supply water temperature while the temperature is stabilized.
(
3
) Terminate the call for heat.
(iv) [Reserved]
(2)
Test protocol for single-stage products employing burner delay.
This test will be used in place of paragraph (h)(1) of this section for products manufacturers have certified to DOE under § 429.18(b)(3) as employing a burner delay automatic means strategy. This test verifies whether the automatic means in single-stage boiler products establishes a burner delay upon a call for heat until the means has determined that the inferred heat load cannot be met by the residual heat of the water in the system.
(i)
Boiler setup
—(A)
Boiler installation.
Boiler installation in the test room shall be in accordance with the setup and apparatus requirements by section 6.0 of appendix EE to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.
(B)
Activation of controls.
Adjust the boiler controls in accordance with the I
O manual at the default setting that allows for activation of the means for adjusting water temperature.
(C)
Adjustment of water flow and temperature.
The flow and temperature of inlet water to the boiler shall be capable of being adjusted manually.
(ii)
Boiler heat-up
—(A)
Boiler start-up.
Power up the boiler and initiate a call for heat.
(B)
Adjustment of firing rate.
Adjust the boiler's firing rate to within ±5% of its maximum rated input.
(C)
Establishing flow rate and temperature rise.
Adjust the water flow through the boiler to achieve a ΔT of 20 °F (±2 °F) or greater with an inlet water temperature equal to 140 °F (±2 °F).
(D)
Terminate the call for heating.
Terminate the call for heat, stop the flow of water through the boiler, and record the time at termination.
(iii)
Verify burner delay
—(A)
Reinitiate call for heat.
Within three (3) minutes of termination (paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(D) of this section) and without adjusting the inlet water flow rate or temperature as specified in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, reinitiate the call for heat and water flow and record the time.
(B)
Verify burner ignition.
At 15-second intervals, record time and supply water temperature until the main burner ignites.
(C)
Terminate the call for heat.
(iv) [Reserved]
(i)
Pumps
—(1)
General purpose pumps.
(i) The volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464 of this chapter, where the value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation certified by the manufacturer will be treated as the expected BEP flow rate. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation certified by the manufacturer. The certified volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation for a single unit sample or the average of the measured flow rates for a multiple unit sample) is within five percent of the certified volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation.
(A) If the representative value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation is found to be valid, the measured volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation will be used in subsequent calculations of constant load pump energy rating (PER
CL
) and constant load pump energy index (PEI
CL
) or variable load pump energy rating (PER
VL
) and variable load pump energy index (PEI
VL
) for that basic model.
(B) If the representative value of volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured volume rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation values determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the new expected BEP flow rate and the unit(s) will be retested until such time as the measured rate of flow (flow rate) at BEP and nominal speed of rotation is within 5 percent of the expected BEP flow rate.
(ii) DOE will test each pump unit according to the test method specified by the manufacturer in the certification report submitted pursuant to § 429.59(b); if the model of pump unit was rated using an AEDM, DOE may use either a testing approach or calculation approach.
(2)
Dedicated-purpose pool pumps.
(i) The rated hydraulic horsepower of each tested unit of the basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(b) of this chapter and the result of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured rated hydraulic horsepower for a single unit sample or the average of the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified rated hydraulic horsepower.
(A) If the representative value of rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be valid, the value of rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the standard level for that basic model.
(B) If the representative value of rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the standard level for that basic model.
(ii) To verify the self-priming capability of non-self-priming pool filter pumps and of self-priming pool filter pumps that are not certified with NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4) as self-priming, the vertical lift and true priming time of each tested unit of the basic model of self-priming or non-self-priming pool filter pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(b) of this chapter.
(A) For self-priming pool filter pumps that are not certified with NSF/ANSI 50-2015 as self-priming, at a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the result of the true priming time measurement(s) will be compared to the value of true priming time certified by the manufacturer. The certified value of true priming time will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured true priming time for a single unit sample or the average of true priming time values for a multiple unit
sample) is within 5 percent of the certified value of true priming time.
(
1
) If the representative value of true priming time is found to be valid, the value of true priming time certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.
(
2
) If the representative value of true priming time is found to be invalid, the mean of the values of true priming time determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.
(B) For non-self-priming pool filter pumps, at a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the result of the true priming time measurement(s) (either the measured true priming time for a single unit sample or the average of true priming time values, for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the value of true priming time referenced in the definition of non-self-priming pool filter pump at § 431.462 (10.0 minutes).
(
1
) If the measurement(s) of true priming time are greater than 95 percent of the value of true priming time referenced in the definition of non-self-priming pool filter pump at § 431.462 with a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the DPPP model will be considered a non-self-priming pool filter pump for the purposes of determining the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.
(
2
) If the conditions specified in paragraph (i)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section are not satisfied, then the DPPP model will be considered a self-priming pool filter pump for the purposes of determining the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.
(iii) To verify the maximum head of self-priming pool filter pump, non-self-priming pool filter pumps, and waterfall pumps, the maximum head of each tested unit of the basic model of self-priming pool filter pump, non-self-priming pool filter pump, or waterfall pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(b) of this chapter and the result of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of maximum head certified by the manufacturer. The certified value of maximum head will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured maximum head for a single unit sample or the average of the maximum head values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified values of maximum head.
(A) If the representative value of maximum head is found to be valid, the value of maximum head certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.
(B) If the representative value of maximum head is found to be invalid, the measured value(s) of maximum head determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the appropriate equipment class and standard level for that basic model.
(iv) To verify that a DPPP model complies with the applicable freeze protection control design requirements, the initiation temperature, run-time, and speed of rotation of the default control configuration of each tested unit of the basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump will be evaluated according to the procedure specified in paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(A) of this section:
(A)(
1
) Set up and configure the dedicated-purpose pool pump under test according to the manufacturer instructions, including any necessary initial priming, in a test apparatus as described in appendix A of HI 40.6-2014-B (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4), except that the ambient temperature registered by the freeze protection ambient temperature sensor will be able to be measured and controlled by, for example, exposing the freeze protection temperature sensor to a specific temperature by submerging the sensor in a water bath of known temperature, by adjusting the actual ambient air temperature of the test chamber and measuring the temperature at the freeze protection ambient temperature sensor location, or by other means that allows the ambient temperature registered by the freeze protection temperature sensor to be reliably simulated, varied, and measured. Do not adjust the default freeze protection control settings or enable the freeze protection control if it is shipped disabled.
(
2
) Activate power to the pump with the flow rate set to zero (
i.e.,
the pump is energized but not circulating water). Set the ambient temperature to 42.0 ± 0.5 °F and allow the temperature to stabilize, where stability is determined in accordance with section 40.6.3.2.2 of HI 40.6-2014-B. After 5 minutes, decrease the temperature measured by the freeze protection temperature sensor by 1.0 ± 0.5 °F and allow the temperature to stabilize. After each reduction in ambient temperature and subsequent stabilization, record the DPPP rotating speed, if any, and freeze protection ambient temperature reading, where the “freeze protection ambient temperature reading” is representative of the temperature measured by the freeze protection ambient temperature sensor, which may be recorded by a variety of means depending on how the temperature is being simulated and controlled. If no flow is initiated, record zero rpm or no flow. Continue decreasing the temperature measured by the freeze protection temperature sensor by 1.0 ± 0.5 °F after 5.0 minutes of stable operation at the previous temperature reading until the pump freeze protection initiates water circulation or until the ambient temperature of 38.0 ± 0.5 °F has been evaluated (
i.e.,
the end of the 5.0 minute interval of 38.0 °F), whichever occurs first.
(
3
) If and when the DPPP freeze protection controls initiate water circulation, increase the ambient temperature reading registered by the freeze protection temperature sensor to a temperature of 42.0 ± 0.5 °F and maintain that temperature for 60.0 minutes. Do not modify or interfere with the operation of the DPPP freeze protection operating cycle. After 60.0 minutes, record the freeze protection ambient temperature and rotating speed, if any, of the dedicated-purpose pool pump under test.
(B) If the dedicated-purpose pool pump initiates water circulation at a temperature greater than 40.0 °F; if the dedicated-purpose pool pump was still circulating water after 60.0 minutes of operation at 42.0 ± 0.5 °F; or if rotating speed measured at any point during the DPPP freeze protection control test in paragraph (i)(2)(iii)(A) of this section was greater than one-half of the maximum rotating speed of the DPPP model certified by the manufacturer, that DPPP model is deemed to not comply with the design requirement for freeze protection controls.
(C) If none of the conditions specified in paragraph (i)(2)(iv)(B) of this section are met, including if the DPPP freeze protection control does not initiate water circulation at all during the test, the dedicated-purpose pool pump under test is deemed compliant with the design requirement for freeze protection controls.
(3)
Circulator pumps.
(i) The flow rate at BEP and maximum speed of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(c) of this chapter, where the value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed certified by the manufacturer will be treated as the expected BEP flow rate at maximum speed. The resulting measurement(s) will be compared to the value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed certified by the manufacturer. The certified flow rate at BEP and maximum speed will be considered valid only if the measurement (either the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed for a single unit sample or the average of the measured flow rates for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified flow rate at BEP and maximum speed.
(A) If the representative value of flow rate is found to be valid, the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed will be used in subsequent calculations of circulator energy rating (CER) and circulator energy index (CEI) for that basic model.
(B) If the representative value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured values of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the new expected BEP flow rate and the unit(s) will be retested until such time as the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed is within 5 percent of the expected BEP flow rate.
(ii) The rated hydraulic horsepower of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.464(c) of this chapter. The resulting measurement will be
compared to the rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be considered valid only if the measurement (either the measured rated hydraulic horsepower for a single unit sample or the average of the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified rated hydraulic horsepower.
(A) If the certified rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be valid, the certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be used as the basis for determining scope of applicability for that model.
(B) If the certified rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be invalid, the arithmetic mean of all the hydraulic horsepower values resulting from DOE's testing will be used as the basis for determining scope of applicability for that model.
(iii) DOE will test each circulator pump unit according to the control setting with which the unit was rated. If no control setting is specified and no controls were available, DOE will test using the full speed test. If no control setting is specified and a variety of controls are available, DOE will test using the test method for any one of the control varieties available on board.
(iv) DOE will test each circulator pump using the description and equation for the control curve with which it was rated, if available.
(j)
Refrigerated bottled or canned beverage vending machines
—(1)
Verification of refrigerated volume.
The refrigerated volume (V) of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR 431.296. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the representative value of refrigerated volume certified by the manufacturer. The certified refrigerated volume will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured refrigerated volume for a single unit sample or the average of the measured refrigerated volumes for a multiple unit sample) is within five percent of the certified refrigerated volume.
(i) If the representative value of refrigerated volume is found to be valid, the certified refrigerated volume will be used as the basis for calculation of maximum daily energy consumption for the basic model.
(ii) If the representative value of refrigerated volume is found to be invalid, the average measured refrigerated volume determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the basis for calculation of maximum daily energy consumption for the tested basic model.
(2)
Verification of surface area, transparent, and non-transparent areas.
The percent transparent surface area on the front side of the basic model will be measured pursuant to these requirements for the purposes of determining whether a given basic model meets the definition of Class A or Combination A, as presented at 10 CFR 431.292. The transparent and non-transparent surface areas shall be determined on the front side of the beverage vending machine at the outermost surfaces of the beverage vending machine cabinet, from edge to edge, excluding any legs or other protrusions that extend beyond the dimensions of the primary cabinet. Determine the transparent and non-transparent areas on each side of a beverage vending machine as described in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. For combination vending machines, disregard the surface area surrounding any refrigerated compartments that are not designed to be refrigerated (as demonstrated by the presence of temperature controls), whether or not it is transparent. Determine the percent transparent surface area on the front side of the beverage vending machine as a ratio of the measured transparent area on that side divided by the sum of the measured transparent and non-transparent areas, multiplying the result by 100.
(
i
)
Determination of transparent area.
Determine the total surface area that is transparent as the sum of all surface areas on the front side of a beverage vending machine that meet the definition of transparent at 10 CFR 431.292. When determining whether or not a particular wall segment is transparent, transparency should be determined for the aggregate performance of all the materials between the refrigerated volume and the ambient environment; the
composite performance of all those materials in a particular wall segment must meet the definition of transparent for that area be treated as transparent.
(
ii
)
Determination of non-transparent area.
Determine the total surface area that is not transparent as the sum of all surface areas on the front side of a beverage vending machine that are not considered part of the transparent area, as determined in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section.
(k)
Central air conditioners and heat pumps
—(1)
Verification of cooling capacity.
The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems) will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23(m) of this chapter. The mean of the measurement(s) (either the measured cooling capacity for a single unit sample or the average of the measured cooling capacities for a multiple unit sample) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.
(2)
Verification of C
D
value. (i) For central air conditioners and heat pumps other than models of outdoor units with no match, if manufacturers certify that they did not conduct the optional tests to determine the C
c
and/or C
h
value for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the default C
c
and/or C
h
value will be used as the basis for calculation of SEER or HSPF for each unit tested. If manufacturers certify that they conducted the optional tests to determine the C
c
and/or C
h
value for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the C
c
and/or C
h
value will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23(m) of this chapter for each unit tested and the result for each unit tested (either the tested value or the default value, as selected according to the criteria for the cyclic test in 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix M, section 3.5e) used as the basis for calculation of SEER or HSPF for that unit.
(ii) For models of outdoor units with no match, DOE will use the default C
c
and/or C
h
value pursuant to 10 CFR part 430.
(l)
Miscellaneous refrigeration products
—(1)
Verification of total refrigerated volume.
For all miscellaneous refrigeration products, the total refrigerated volume of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of total refrigerated volume certified by the manufacturer. The certified total refrigerated volume will be considered valid only if:
(i) The measurement is within two percent, or 0.5 cubic feet (0.2 cubic feet for products with total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet (220 liters)), whichever is greater, of the certified total refrigerated volume; or
(ii) The measurement is greater than the certified total refrigerated volume.
(A) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be valid, the certified adjusted total volume will be used as the basis for calculating the maximum allowed energy use for the tested basic model.
(B) If the certified total refrigerated volume is found to be invalid, the average measured adjusted total volume, rounded to the nearest 0.1 cubic foot, will serve as the basis for calculating the maximum allowed energy use for the tested basic model.
(2)
Test for models with two compartments, each having its own user-operable temperature control.
The test described in section 5.2(b) of the applicable test procedure in appendix A to subpart B part 430 of this chapter shall be used for all units of a tested basic model before DOE makes a determination of noncompliance with respect to the basic model.
(m)
Commercial packaged boilers
—(1)
Verification of fuel input rate.
The fuel input rate of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.86 of this chapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of
the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) is within two percent of the certified rated input.
(i) If the measured fuel input rate is within two-percent of the certified rated input, the certified rated input will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and the mean measured fuel input rate will be used as the basis for calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.
(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for a gas-fired commercial packaged boiler is not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas manifold pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested (or, if not provided in the manual, in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4) of this chapter) to achieve the certified rated input (within two-percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to increase or decrease the gas inlet pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested (or, if not provided in the manual, in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4)) to achieve the certified rated input (within two-percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice if the unit is equipped with one. If the fuel input rate still is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the mean measured fuel input rate (either for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.
(iii) If the measured fuel input rate for an oil-fired commercial packaged boiler is not within two-percent of the certified rated input, the mean measured fuel input rate (either for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.
(2)
Models capable of producing both hot water and steam.
For a model of commercial packaged boiler that is capable of producing both hot water and steam, DOE may measure the thermal or combustion efficiency as applicable (see § 431.87 of this chapter) for steam and/or hot water modes. DOE will evaluate compliance based on the measured thermal or combustion efficiency in steam and hot water modes, independently.
(n)
Commercial water heating equipment other than residential-duty commercial water heaters
—(1)
Verification of fuel input rate.
The fuel input rate of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 431.106 of this chapter. The measured fuel input rate (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measured fuel input rate is within two percent of the certified rated input.
(i) If the certified rated input is found to be valid, then the certified rated input will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).
(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for gas-fired commercial water heating equipment is not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas outlet pressure within 10 percent of the value specified on the nameplate of the model of commercial water heating equipment being tested to achieve the certified rated input (within 2 percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to increase or decrease the gas supply pressure within the range specified on the nameplate of the model of commercial water heating equipment being tested. If the measured fuel input rate is still not within
two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice, if the unit is equipped with one. If the measured fuel input rate still is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).
(iii) If the measured fuel input rate for oil-fired commercial water heating equipment is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).
(2) [Reserved]
(o)
Uninterruptible power supplies.
(1) Determine the UPS architecture by performing the tests specified in the definitions of VI, VFD, and VFI in sections 2.28.1 through 2.28.3 of appendix Y to subpart B of 10 CFR part 430.
(2) [Reserved]
(p)
Compressors
—(1)
Verification of full-load operating pressure.
(i) The maximum full-flow operating pressure of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix A to subpart T of part 431 of this chapter, where 90 percent of the value of full-load operating pressure certified by the manufacturer will be the starting point of the test method prior to increasing discharge pressure. The measured maximum full-flow operating pressure (either the single measured value for a single unit sample or the mean of the measured maximum full-flow operating pressures for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the certified rating for full-load operating pressure to determine if the certified rating is valid or not. The certified rating for full-load operating pressure will be considered valid only if the certified rating for full-load operating pressure is less than or equal to the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure and greater than or equal to the lesser of—
(A) 90 percent of the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure; or
(B) 10 psig less than the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure.
(ii) If the certified full-load operating pressure is found to be valid, then the certified value will be used as the full-load operating pressure and will be the basis for determination of full-load actual volume flow rate, pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure, specific power, and package isentropic efficiency.
(iii) If the certified full-load operating pressure is found to be invalid, then the measured maximum full-flow operating pressure will be used as the full-load operating pressure and will be the basis for determination of full-load actual volume flow rate, pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure, specific power, and package isentropic efficiency.
(2)
Verification of full-load actual volume flow rate.
The measured full-load actual volume flow rate will be measured, pursuant to the test requirements of appendix A to subpart T of part 431 of this chapter, at the full-load operating pressure determined in paragraph (p)(1) of this section. The certified full-load actual volume flow rate will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured full-load actual volume flow rate for a single unit sample or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample) are within the percentage of the certified full-load actual volume flow rate specified in Table 1 of this section:
Table 1 of § 429.134—Allowable Percentage Deviation From the Certified Full-Load Actual Volume Flow Rate
Manufacturer certified full-load actual volume flow rate
(m
3
/s) × 10
−3
Allowable
percent of the certified
full-load
actual volume
flow rate
(%)
0
and ≤ 8.3
±7
8.3
and ≤ 25
±6
25
and ≤ 250
±5
250
±4
(i) If the certified value of full-load actual volume flow rate is found to be valid, the full-load actual volume flow rate certified by the manufacturer will be used as the basis for determination of the applicable standard.
(ii) If the certified value of full-load actual volume flow rate is found to be
invalid, the entire sample (one or multiple units) will be considered as failing the enforcement test.
(3)
Ancillary equipment.
Prior to testing each compressor, DOE will install any required ancillary equipment specified by the manufacturer in the certification report submitted pursuant to § 429.63(b).
(q)
Walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers.
Prior to October 31, 2023, the provisions in 10 CFR 429.134, revised as of January 1, 2022, are applicable. On and after October 31, 2023, the following provisions apply.(1) If DOE determines that a basic model of a panel, door, or refrigeration system for walk-in coolers or walk-in freezers fails to meet an applicable energy conservation standard, then the manufacturer of that basic model is responsible for the noncompliance. If DOE determines that a complete walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer or component thereof fails to meet an applicable energy conservation standard, then the manufacturer of that walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer is responsible for the noncompliance with the applicable standard, except that the manufacturer of a complete walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer is not responsible for the use of components that were certified and labeled (in accordance with DOE labeling requirements) as compliant by another party and later found to be noncompliant with the applicable standard(s).
(2)
Verification of refrigeration system net capacity.
The net capacity of the refrigeration system basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 431, subpart R, appendix C of this chapter for each unit tested on and after October 31, 2023, but before the compliance date of revised energy conservation standards for walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems. The net capacity of the refrigeration system basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of part 431, subpart R, appendix C1 of this chapter for each unit tested on and after the compliance date of revised energy conservation standards for walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of net capacity certified by the manufacturer. The certified net capacity will be considered valid only if the average measured net capacity is within plus or minus five percent of the certified net capacity.
(3)
Verification of door surface area.
The surface area of a display door or non-display door basic model will be measured pursuant to the requirements of 10 CFR part 431, subpart R, appendix A for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the surface area certified by the manufacturer. The certified surface area will be considered valid only if the average measured surface area is within plus or minus three percent of the certified surface area.
(i) If the certified surface area is found to be valid, the certified surface area will be used as the basis for calculating the maximum energy consumption (kWh/day) of the basic model.
(ii) If the certified surface area is found to be invalid, the average measured surface area will serve as the basis for calculating the maximum energy consumption (kWh/day) of the basic model.
(4)
Verification of door electricity-consuming device power.
For each basic model of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer door, DOE will calculate the door's energy consumption using the input power listed on the nameplate of each electricity-consuming device shipped with the door. If an electricity-consuming device shipped with a walk-in door does not have a nameplate or the nameplate does not list the device's input power, then DOE will use the device's rated input power included in the door's certification report. If the door is not certified or if the certification does not include a rated input power for an electricity-consuming device shipped with a walk-in door, DOE will use the measured input power. DOE also may validate the power listed on the nameplate or the rated input power by measuring it when energized using a power supply that provides power within the allowable voltage range listed on the component nameplate or the door nameplate, whichever is available. If the measured input power is more than 10 percent higher than the input power listed on the nameplate or the rated
input power, as appropriate, then the measured input power shall be used in the door's energy consumption calculation.
(i) For electricity-consuming devices with controls, the maximum input wattage observed while energizing the device and activating the control shall be considered the measured input power. For anti-sweat heaters that are controlled based on humidity levels, the control may be activated by increasing relative humidity in the region of the controls without damaging the sensor. For lighting fixtures that are controlled with motion sensors, the control may be activated by simulating motion in the vicinity of the sensor. Other kinds of controls may be activated based on the functions of their sensor.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5)
Break-in period for refrigeration systems.
DOE will perform a compressor break-in period during assessment or enforcement testing using a duration specified by the manufacturer, not to exceed 20 hours, only if a break-in period duration is provided in the certification report.
(r)
Portable air conditioners. Verification of seasonally adjusted cooling capacity.
The seasonally adjusted cooling capacity will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of seasonally adjusted cooling capacity certified by the manufacturer. The certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity will be considered valid only if the average measured seasonally adjusted cooling capacity is within five percent of the certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity.
(1) If the certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity is found to be valid, the certified value will be used as the basis for determining the minimum allowed combined energy efficiency ratio for the basic model.
(2) If the certified seasonally adjusted cooling capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured seasonally adjusted cooling capacity will be used to determine the minimum allowed combined energy efficiency ratio for the basic model.
(s)
Direct Expansion-Dedicated Outdoor Air Systems.
(1) If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 1 to § 429.43(a)(3)(i)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(i)(A)(
1
)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.
(2) If the manufacturer certified testing in accordance with Option 1 using default VERS exhaust air transfer ratio (EATR) values or Option 2 using default VERS effectiveness and EATR values, DOE may determine the integrated seasonal moisture removal efficiency 2 (ISMRE2) and/or the integrated seasonal coefficient of performance 2 (ISCOP2) using the default values or by conducting testing to determine VERS performance according to the DOE test procedure in appendix B to subpart F of part 431 of this chapter (with the minimum purge angle and zero pressure differential between supply and return air).
(3) If the manufacturer certified testing in accordance with Option 1 using VERS exhaust air transfer ratio (EATR) values or Option 2 using VERS effectiveness and EATR values determined using an analysis tool certified in accordance with the DOE test procedure in appendix B to subpart F of part 431 of this chapter, DOE may conduct its own testing to determine VERS performance in accordance with the DOE test procedure in appendix B to subpart F of part 431 of this chapter.
(i) DOE would use the values of VERS performance certified to DOE (
i.e.
EATR, sensible effectiveness, and latent effectiveness) as the basis for determining the ISMRE2 and/or ISCOP2 of the basic model only if, for Option 1, the certified EATR is found to be no more than one percentage point less than the mean of the measured values (
i.e.
the difference between the measured EATR and the certified EATR is no more than 0.01), or for Option 2, all certified values of sensible effectiveness are found to be no greater than 105 percent of the mean of the measured values (
i.e.
the certified effectiveness divided by the measured effectiveness
is no greater than 1.05), all certified values of latent effectiveness are found to be no greater than 107 percent of the mean of the measured values, and the certified EATR is found to be no more than one percentage point less than the mean of the measured values.
(ii) If any of the conditions in paragraph (s)(2)(i) of this section do not hold true, then the mean of the measured values will be used as the basis for determining the ISMRE2 and/or ISCOP2 of the basic model.
(t)
Ceiling Fans
—(1)
Verification of blade span.
DOE will measure the blade span and round the measurement pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented blade span valid only if the rounded measurement(s) (either the rounded measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the rounded measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest inch) is the same as the represented blade span.
(i) If DOE determines that the represented blade span is valid, that blade span will be used as the basis for determining the product class and calculating the minimum allowable ceiling fan efficiency.
(ii) If DOE determines that the represented blade span is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured blade span(s) as the basis for determining the product class, and calculating the minimum allowable ceiling fan efficiency.
(2)
Verification of the distance between the ceiling and lowest point of fan blades.
DOE will measure the distance between the ceiling and lowest point of the fan blades and round the measurement pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented distance valid only if the rounded measurement(s) (either the measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest quarter inch) are the same as the represented distance.
(i) If DOE determines that the represented distance is valid, that distance will be used as the basis for determining the product class.
(ii) If DOE determines that the represented distance is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured distance(s) as the basis for determining the product class.
(3)
Verification of blade revolutions per minute (RPM) measured at high speed.
DOE will measure the blade RPM at high speed pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 of this chapter for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented blade RPM measured at high speed valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest RPM) are within 2 percent of the represented blade RPM at high speed.
(i) If DOE determines that the represented RPM is valid, that RPM will be used as the basis for determining the product class.
(ii) If DOE determines that the represented RPM is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured RPM(s) as the basis for determining the product class.
(4)
Verification of blade edge thickness.
DOE will measure the blade edge thickness and round the measurement pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. DOE will consider the represented blade edge thickness valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured value for a single unit, or the mean of the measured values for a multiple unit sample, rounded to the nearest 0.01 inch) are the same as the represented blade edge thickness.
(i) If DOE determines that the represented blade edge thickness is valid, that blade edge thickness will be used for determining product class.
(ii) If DOE determines that the represented blade edge thickness is invalid, DOE will use the rounded measured blade edge thickness(es) as the basis for determining the product class.
(u)
Battery chargers
—
verification of reported represented value obtained from testing in accordance with appendix Y1 of 10 CFR part 430 subpart B when using an external power supply.
If the battery charger basic model requires the use of an external power supply (“EPS”), and the manufacturer reported EPS is no longer available on the market, then DOE will test the battery charger with any compatible EPS that is minimally
compliant with DOE's energy conservation standards for EPSs as prescribed in § 430.32(w) of this subchapter and that meets the battery charger input power criteria.
(v)
Variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps (other than air-cooled with rated cooling capacity less than 65,000 btu/h).
The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of IEER:
(1)
Specific components.
For each indoor unit model identified in the tested combination for which the model number certified in the STI does not fully specify the presence or absence of components listed at table 2 to 10 CFR 429.43(a)(3)(ii)(B), the following provision applies. If DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number of those components, then DOE may test a system that includes any individual indoor unit model that has a model number consistent with the certified indoor unit model number.
(2)
Manufacturer involvement in assessment or enforcement testing.
A manufacturer's representative will be allowed to support commissioning and witness assessment and/or enforcement testing for variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps, including during the controls verification procedures (CVPs) specified in paragraph (v)(3) of this section, with allowance for additional involvement as described in the following provisions.
(i)
Manufacturer involvement in CVP.
Control settings must be set by a member of the third-party laboratory consistent with the provisions in section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. Critical parameters must operate automatically from the system controls and must not be manually controlled or adjusted at any point by any party during the CVP.
(ii)
Manufacturer involvement in heating tests and IEER cooling tests.
All control settings other than critical parameters must be set by a member of the third-party laboratory consistent with the provisions of section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. In heating tests and IEER cooling tests, critical parameters may be manually controlled by a manufacturer's representative and initially set to their certified values as described in section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. During IEER cooling mode tests only, a manufacturer's representative may also make additional adjustments to the critical parameters as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. Setting and adjustment of critical parameters by a manufacturer's representative must be monitored by third-party laboratory personnel using a service tool. Other than critical parameter adjustments made in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, the manufacturer's representative must not make any other adjustments to the VRF multi-split system under test. If a manufacturer's representative is not present for testing, a member of the third-party laboratory must set and adjust critical parameters using the means of control provided by the manufacturer, as described in § 429.110(b)(1)(iv) for enforcement testing and § 429.104 for assessment testing.
(3)
Controls Verification Procedure (CVP).
This procedure validates the certified values of critical parameters for which positions may be manually set during the full- and part-load IEER cooling test conditions specified at appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. The CVP will only be conducted for a single system.
(i)
Conducting the CVP
—The CVP will be conducted at all of the four IEER cooling test conditions as specified in appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431; the CVP is not conducted at any heating test conditions. The CVP will first be performed at the full-load cooling condition before being conducted at part-load cooling conditions and must be conducted per Appendix C of AHRI 1230-2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4).
(ii)
Validating critical parameters
—At each load point, certified critical parameter values will be validated or invalidated according to Section C6 of AHRI 1230-2021 with the following amendments:
(A) The duration of the period used for validating certified critical parameter values must be whichever of the following is longer: three minutes, or
the time period needed to obtain five sample readings while meeting the minimum data collection interval requirements of Table C2 of AHRI 1230-2021.
(B) If at least one measurement period with duration identified in paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section exists before t
OFF
that has an average root-sum-square (“RSS”) points total (as defined in Section 3.27 of AHRI 1230-2021) over the measurement period that is less than or equal to 70 points, the certified critical parameter values are valid.
(C) If no measurement period with duration identified in paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section exists before t
OFF
that has an average RSS points total over the measurement period that is less than or equal to 70 points, the certified critical parameter values are invalid.
(iii)
Determining critical parameters for use in steady-state IEER cooling tests.
If, following a CVP, IEER testing is conducted per appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, the following provisions apply:
(A)
Validated critical parameter settings.
At each load point, if certified critical parameter values are found to be valid according to the results of the CVP, initially set critical parameters to their certified values for the IEER test at the corresponding full- or part-load cooling condition. Perform additional adjustments to critical parameters as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431.
(B)
Invalidated critical parameter settings.
At each load point, if certified critical parameter values identified pursuant to paragraph (v)(3) of this section are found to be invalid according to the results of the CVP, determine alternate critical parameter values for use in the corresponding IEER test (as specified in appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431) as follows:
(
1
) Select the CVP measurement period—this period must have duration determined per paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section and must be the period where the RSS points total has a lower average value over the measurement period than over any other time period in the CVP of the same duration. If multiple periods exist with the same RSS points total, select the measurement period closest to but before the time that the first indoor unit switches to thermally inactive (denoted as “t
off
” in AHRI 1230-2021).
(
2
) Determine alternate critical parameters—calculate the average position for each critical parameter during the measurement period selected in paragraph (v)(3)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section. When initially setting critical parameters per section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, instead of using the certified critical parameter values, use the alternate critical parameter values as control inputs. The same initial alternate critical parameter values must be used for all systems in the assessment/enforcement sample (though critical parameter adjustments as needed to achieve target capacity or sensible heat ratio (SHR) limits are made independently for each tested system, per paragraph (v)(3)(iii)(B)(
3)
of this section.
(
3
) For each system, determine whether critical parameter adjustments are needed to achieve the target capacity or SHR limit for an IEER cooling test. Perform critical parameter adjustments independently on each system as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, with the following exceptions:
(
i
) Replace all references to “certified critical parameter values” with “alternate critical parameter values” as determined in paragraph (v)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.
(
ii
) Determine
CP
Max
from a CVP conducted at full-load cooling conditions as the maximum value observed during the R2 period as described in Section C.4.4.2.3 of AHRI 1230-2021. If multiple components corresponding to a single parameter are present, determine
CP
Max
at the point during the R2 period at which the average value across all components corresponding to that critical parameter is maximized.
(4)
Break-in period.
DOE will perform a compressor break-in period during assessment or enforcement testing using a duration specified by the manufacturer only if a break-in period duration is provided in the supplemental testing instructions.
(w)
Automatic commercial ice makers—verification of harvest rate.
The harvest rate will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of harvest rate certified by the manufacturer of the basic model. The certified harvest rate will be considered valid only if the average measured harvest rate is within five percent of the certified harvest rate.
(1) If the certified harvest rate is found to be valid, the certified harvest rate will be used as the basis for determining the maximum energy use and maximum condenser water use, if applicable, allowed for the basic model.
(2) If the certified harvest rate is found to be invalid, the average measured harvest rate of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the maximum energy use and maximum condenser water use, if applicable, allowed for the basic model.
(x)
Single package vertical air conditioners and heat pumps.
The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of IEER.
(1)
Verification of cooling capacity.
The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix G1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. The mean of the measurement(s) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.
(2)
Specific components.
If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 4 to § 429.43(a)(3)(iii)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(iii)(A)(
1
)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.
(3)
Validation of outdoor ventilation airflow rate.
The outdoor ventilation airflow rate in cubic feet per minute (“CFM”) of the basic model will be measured in accordance with ASHRAE 41.2-1987 and Section 6.4 of ASHRAE 37-2009 (both incorporated by reference, see § 429.4). All references to the inlet shall be determined to mean the outdoor air inlet.
(i) The outdoor ventilation airflow rate validation shall be conducted at the conditions specified in Table 3 of AHRI 390-2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4), Full Load Standard Rating Capacity Test, Cooling, except for the following:
The outdoor ventilation airflow rate shall be determined at 0 in. H
2
O external static pressure with a tolerance of −0.00/+0.05 in. H
2
O.
(ii) When validating the outdoor ventilation airflow rate, the outdoor air inlet pressure shall be 0.00 in. H
2
O, with a tolerance of −0.00/+0.05 in. H
2
O when measured against the room ambient pressure.
(y)
Air-cooled, three-phase, small commercial package air conditioning and heating equipment with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h and air-cooled, three-phase, variable refrigerant flow multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps with a cooling capacity of less than 65,000 Btu/h.
The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of SEER2 and HSPF2 (as applicable).
(1)
Verification of cooling capacity.
The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the individual model (for single-package units) or individual combination (for split systems) will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431. The mean of the cooling capacity measurement(s) (either the measured cooling capacity for a single unit sample or the average of the measured cooling capacities for a multiple unit sample) will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.
(2)
Verification of C
D
value.
(i) For models other than models of outdoor units with no match, if manufacturers certify that they did not conduct the optional tests to determine the C
c
and/or C
h
value for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the default value of C
c
and/or C
h
will be used as the basis for calculation of SEER2 or HSPF2 for each unit tested. If manufacturers certify that they conducted the optional tests to
determine the value of C
c
and/or C
h
for an individual model (for single-package systems) or individual combination (for split systems), as applicable, the value of C
c
and/or C
h
will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431 for each unit tested. The result for each unit tested (either the tested value or the default value, as selected according to the criteria for the cyclic test in section 4 of appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431) will be used as the basis for calculation of SEER2 or HSPF2 for that unit.
(ii) For models of outdoor units with no match, DOE will use the default value of Cc and/or Ch specified in the test procedure in appendix F1 to subpart F of part 431.
(z)
Dishwashers
—(1)
Determination of Most Energy-Intensive Cycle.
For any dishwasher basic model that does not meet the specified cleaning index threshold at a given soil load, the most energy-intensive cycle will be determined through testing as specified in sections 4.1.1 and 5.2 of appendix C2 to subpart B of part 430.
(2)
Detergent dosing requirement.
For any dishwasher basic model certified in accordance with the test procedure at appendix C1 to subpart B of part 430 of this chapter, DOE will conduct enforcement testing using the detergent dosing requirement that was used by the manufacturer as the basis for certifying compliance with the applicable energy conservation standard, in accordance with the applicable test procedure and certification reporting requirements.
(aa)
Computer room air conditioners.
The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to energy conservation standards denominated in terms of NSenCOP.
(1)
Verification of net sensible cooling capacity.
The net sensible cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431, subpart F, appendix E1. The mean of the net sensible cooling capacity measurement(s) will be used to determine the applicable energy conservation standards for purposes of compliance.
(2)
Specific components.
If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 5 to § 429.43(a)(3)(iv)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(iv)(A)(
1
)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.
(bb)
Room air conditioners.
The cooling capacity will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 430 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of cooling capacity certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified cooling capacity will be considered valid only if the measurement is within five percent of the certified cooling capacity.
(1) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be valid, the certified cooling capacity will be used as the basis for determining the minimum combined energy efficiency ratio allowed for the basic model.
(2) If the certified cooling capacity is found to be invalid, the average measured cooling capacity of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the minimum combined energy efficiency ratio allowed for the basic model.
(cc)
Pool heaters.
Beginning on May 30, 2028:
(1)
Verification of input capacity for gas-fired pool heaters.
The input capacity of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23(p) of this subchapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the represented value of input capacity certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified input capacity will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured input capacity for a single unit sample or the average of the measured input capacity for a multiple unit sample) is within two percent of the certified input capacity.
(i) If the representative value of input capacity is found to be valid, the certified input capacity will serve as
the basis for determination of the applicable standard and the mean measured input capacity will be used as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.
(ii) If the representative value of input capacity is not within two percent of the certified input capacity, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the gas-fired pool heater being tested to achieve the certified input capacity (within two percent). If the input capacity is still not within two percent of the certified input capacity, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice. If the input capacity still is not within two percent of the certified input capacity, the mean measured input capacity (either for a single unit sample or the average for a multiple unit sample) determined from the tested units will serve as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.
(2)
Verification of active electrical power for electric pool heaters.
The active electrical power of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of § 430.23 of this subchapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the represented value of active electrical power city certified by the manufacturer for the basic model. The certified active electrical power will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured active electrical power for a single unit sample or the average of the measured active electrical power for a multiple unit sample) is within five percent of the certified active electrical power.
(i) If the representative value of active electrical power is found to be valid, the certified active electrical power will serve as the basis for determination of the applicable standard and the mean measured active electrical power will be used as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.
(ii) If the representative value of active electrical power is not within five percent of the certified active electrical power, the mean measured active electrical power (either for a single unit sample or the average for a multiple unit sample) determined from the tested units will serve as the basis for calculation of the integrated thermal efficiency standard for the basic model.
(dd)
Water-Source Heat Pumps.
The following provisions apply for assessment and enforcement testing of models subject to standards in terms of IEER and ACOP.
(1)
Verification of Cooling Capacity.
The cooling capacity of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of appendix C1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. The mean of the measurements will be used to determine the applicable standards for purposes of compliance.
(2)
Specific Components.
If a basic model includes individual models with components listed at table 6 to § 429.43(a)(3)(v)(A) and DOE is not able to obtain an individual model with the least number (which could be zero) of those components within an otherwise comparable model group (as defined in § 429.43(a)(3)(v)(A)(
1
)), DOE may test any individual model within the otherwise comparable model group.
(ee)
Dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.
(1) To verify the dedicated-purpose pool pump motor variable speed capability, a test in accordance with section 5 of UL 1004-10:2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4) will be conducted.
(2) To verify that dedicated-purpose pool pump motor comply with the applicable freeze protection design requirements, a test in accordance with section 6 of UL 1004-10:2022 will be conducted.
(ff)
Commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers
—(1)
Verification of volume.
The volume will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the certified volume of the basic model. The certified volume will be considered valid only if the average measured volume is within five percent of the certified volume.
(i) If the certified volume is found to be valid, the certified volume will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.
(ii) If the certified volume is found to be invalid, the average measured volume of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.
(2)
Verification of total display area.
The total display area will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of 10 CFR part 431 for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the certified total display area of the basic model. The certified total display area will be considered valid only if the average measured total display area is within five percent of the certified total display area.
(i) If the certified total display area is found to be valid, the certified total display area will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.
(ii) If the certified total display area is found to be invalid, the average measured total display area of the units in the sample will be used as the basis for determining the maximum daily energy consumption allowed for the basic model.
(3)
Determination of pull-down temperature application.
A classification of a basic model as pull-down temperature application will be considered valid only if a model meets the definition of “pull-down temperature application” specified in § 431.62 of this chapter as follows.
(i) 12-ounce beverage can temperatures will be measured for 12-ounce beverage cans loaded at the locations within the commercial refrigerator that are as close as possible to the locations that would be measured by test simulators according to the test procedure for commercial refrigerators specified in § 431.64 of this chapter.
(ii) The commercial refrigerator will be operated at ambient conditions consistent with those specified for commercial refrigerators in § 431.64 of this chapter and at the control setting necessary to achieve a stable integrated average temperature of 38 °F, prior to loading.
(iii) 12-ounce beverage cans to be fully loaded into the commercial refrigerator (with and without temperature measurements) will be maintained at 90 °F ±2 °F based on the average measured 12-ounce beverage can temperatures prior to loading into the commercial refrigerator.
(iv) The duration of pull-down (which must be 12 hours or less) will be determined starting from closing the commercial refrigerator door after completing the 12-ounce beverage can loading until the integrated average temperature reaches 38 °F ±2 °F.
(v) An average stable temperature of 38 °F will be determined by operating the commercial refrigerator for an additional 12 hours after initially reaching 38 °F ±2 °F with no changes to control settings, and determining an integrated average temperature of 38 °F ±2 °F at the end of the 12 hour stability period.
[79 FR 22348, Apr. 21, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 40566, July 11, 2014; 80 FR 37148, June 30, 2015; 80 FR 45824, July 31, 2015; 80 FR 46760, Aug. 5, 2015; 80 FR 79669, Dec. 23, 2015; 81 FR 2646, Jan. 15, 2016; 81 FR 15426, Mar. 23, 2016; 81 FR 24009, Apr. 25, 2016; 81 FR 37055, June 8, 2016; 81 FR 38395, June 13, 2016; 81 FR 46791, July 18, 2016; 81 FR 79320, Nov. 10, 2016; 81 FR 96236, Dec. 29, 2016; 81 FR 89304, Dec. 9, 2016; 81 FR 89822, Dec. 12, 2016; 81 FR 95800, Dec. 28, 2016; 82 FR 1100, Jan. 4, 2017; 82 FR 36919, Aug. 7, 2017; 85 FR 1446, Jan. 10, 2020; 86 FR 56820, Oct. 12, 2021; 87 FR 33379, June 1, 2022; 87 FR 45197, July 27, 2022; 87 FR 50423, Aug. 16, 2022; 87 FR 55122, Sept. 8, 2022; 87 FR 57298, Sept. 19, 2022; 87 FR 63895, Oct. 20, 2022; 87 FR 65667, 65899, Nov. 1, 2022; 87 FR 75167, Dec. 7, 2022; 87 FR 77324, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 3276, Jan. 18, 2023; 88 FR 15537, Mar. 13, 2023; 88 FR 17975, Mar. 24, 2023; 88 FR 21838, Apr. 11, 2023; 88 FR 28837, May 4, 2023; 88 FR 40472, June 21, 2023; 88 FR 34362, May 26, 2023; 88 FR 34702, May 30, 2023; 88 FR 48357, July 27, 2023; 88 FR 66222, Sept. 26, 2023; 88 FR 67041, Sept. 28, 2023; 88 FR 84228, Dec. 4, 2023; 89 FR 37942, May 6, 2024; 89 FR 44035, May 20, 2024; 89 FR 82070, Oct. 9, 2024]

# Regional Standards Enforcement Procedures
§ 429.140
Regional standards enforcement procedures.
Sections 429.140 through 429.158 provide enforcement procedures specific to the violations enumerated in
§ 429.102(c). These provisions explain the responsibilities of manufacturers, private labelers, distributors, contractors and dealers with respect to central air conditioners subject to regional standards; however, these provisions do not limit the responsibilities of parties otherwise subject to 10 CFR parts 429 and 430.
[81 FR 45402, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.142
Records retention.
(a)
Record retention.
The following entities must maintain the specified records—(1)
Contractors and dealers.
(i) Contractors and dealers must retain the following records for at least 48 months from the date of installation of a central air conditioner in the states of Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, or Virginia or in the District of Columbia:
(A)
For split-system central air conditioner outdoor units:
The manufacturer name, model number, serial number, location of installation (including street address, city, state, and zip code), date of installation, and party from whom the unit was purchased (including person's name, full address, and phone number); and
(B)
For split-system central air conditioner indoor units:
The manufacturer name, model number, location of installation (including street address, city, state, and zip code), date of installation, and party from whom the unit was purchased (including person's name, full address, and phone number).
(ii) Contractors and dealers must retain the following, additional records for at least 48 months from the date of installation of a central air conditioner in the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, and New Mexico:
(A)
For single-package central air conditioners:
The manufacturer name, model number, serial number, location of installation (including street address, city, state, and zip code), date of installation, and party from whom the unit was purchased (including person's name, full address, and phone number).
(B) [Reserved]
(2)
Distributors.
Beginning July 1, 2016, all distributors must retain the following records for no less than 54 months from the date of sale:
(i)
For split-system central air conditioner outdoor units:
The outdoor unit manufacturer, outdoor unit model number, outdoor unit serial number, date unit was purchased from manufacturer, party from whom the unit was purchased (including company or individual's name, full address, and phone number), date unit was sold to contractor or dealer, party to whom the unit was sold (including company or individual's name, full address, and phone number), and, if delivered, delivery address.
(ii)
For single-package air conditioners:
The manufacturer, model number, serial number, date unit was purchased from manufacturer, party from whom the unit was purchased (including company or individual's name, full address, and phone number), date unit was sold to a contractor or dealer, party to whom the unit was sold (including company or individual's name, full address, and phone number), and, if delivered, delivery address.
(3)
Manufacturers and private labelers.
All manufacturers and private labelers must retain the following records for no less than 60 months from the date of sale:
(i)
For split system air conditioner outdoor units:
The model number, serial number, date of manufacture, date of sale, and party to whom the unit was sold (including person's name, full address, and phone number);
(ii)
For split system central air conditioner indoor units:
The model number, date of manufacture, date of sale, and party to whom the unit was sold (including person's name, full address, and phone number); and
(iii)
For single-package central air conditioners:
The model number, serial number, date of manufacture, date of sale, and party to whom the unit was sold (including person's name, full address, and phone number).
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 45402, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.144
Records request.
(a) DOE must have reasonable belief a violation has occurred to request
records specific to an on-going investigation of a violation of central air conditioner regional standards.
(b) Upon request, the manufacturer, private labeler, distributor, dealer, or contractor must provide to DOE the relevant records within 30 calendar days of the request.
(1) DOE, at its discretion, may grant additional time for records production if the party from whom records have been requested has made a good faith effort to produce records.
(2) To request additional time, the party from whom records have been requested must produce all records gathered in 30 days and provide to DOE a written explanation of the need for additional time with the requested date for completing the production of records.
[81 FR 45402, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.146
Notice of violation.
(a) If DOE determines a party has committed a violation of regional standards, DOE will issue a Notice of Violation advising that party of DOE's determination.
(b) If, however, DOE determines a noncompliant installation occurred in only one instance, the noncompliant installation is remediated prior to DOE issuing a Notice of Violation, and the party has no history of prior violations, DOE will not issue such notice.
(c) If DOE does not find a violation of regional standards, DOE will notify the party under investigation.
[81 FR 45403, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.148
Routine violator.
(a) DOE will consider,
inter alia,
the following factors in determining if a person is a routine violator: Number of violations in current and past cases, length of time over which violations occurred, ratio of compliant to noncompliant installations or sales, percentage of employees committing violations, evidence of intent, evidence of training or education provided, and subsequent remedial actions.
(b) In the event that DOE determines a person to be a routine violator, DOE will issue a Notice of Finding of Routine Violation.
(c) In making a finding of Routine Violation, DOE will consider whether the Routine Violation was limited to a specific location. If DOE finds that the routine violation was so limited, DOE may, in its discretion, in the Notice of Finding of Routine Violation limit the prohibition on manufacturer and/or private labeler sales to a particular contractor or distribution location.
[81 FR 45403, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.150
Appealing a finding of routine violation.
(a) Any person found to be a routine violator may, within 30 calendar days after the date of Notice of Finding of Routine Violation, request an administrative appeal to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(b) The appeal must present information rebutting the finding of violation(s).
(c) The Office of Hearings and Appeals will issue a decision on the appeal within 45 days of receipt of the appeal.
(d) A routine violator must file a Notice of Intent to Appeal with the Office of Hearings and Appeals within three business days of the date of the Notice of Finding of Routine Violation, serving a copy on the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Enforcement to retain the ability to buy central air conditioners during the pendency of the appeal.
[81 FR 45403, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.152
Removal of finding of “routine violator”.
(a) A routine violator may be removed from DOE's list of routine violators through completion of remediation in accordance with the requirements in § 429.154.
(b) A routine violator that wants to remediate must contact the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Enforcement via the point of contact listed in the Notice of Finding of Routine Violation and identify the distributor(s), manufacturer(s), or private labeler(s) from whom it wishes to buy compliant replacement product.
(c) DOE will contact the distributor(s), manufacturer(s), or private labeler(s) and authorize sale of central
air conditioner units to the routine violator for purposes of remediation within 3 business days of receipt of the request for remediation. DOE will provide the manufacturer(s), distributor(s), and/or private labeler(s) with an official letter authorizing the sale of units for purposes of remediation.
(d) DOE will contact routine violators that requested units for remediation within 30 days of sending the official letter to the manufacturer(s), distributor(s), and/or private labeler(s) to determine the status of the remediation.
(e) If remediation is successfully completed, DOE will issue a Notice indicating a person is no longer considered to be a routine violator. The Notice will be issued no more than 30 days after DOE has received documentation demonstrating that remediation is complete.
[81 FR 45403, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.154
Remediation.
(a) Any party found to be in violation of the regional standards may remediate by replacing the noncompliant unit at cost to the violator; the end user cannot be charged for any costs of remediation.
(1) If a violator is unable to replace all noncompliant installations, then the Department may, in its discretion, consider the remediation complete if the violator satisfactorily demonstrates to the Department that it attempted to replace all noncompliant installations.
(2) The Department will scrutinize any “failed” attempts at replacement to ensure that there was indeed a good faith effort to complete remediation of the noncompliant unit.
(b) The violator must provide to DOE the serial number of any outdoor unit and/or indoor unit installed not in compliance with the applicable regional standard as well as the serial number(s) of the replacement unit(s) to be checked by the Department against warranty and other replacement claims.
(c) If the remediation is approved by the Department, then DOE will issue a Notice of Remediation and the violation will not count towards a finding of “routine violator”.
[81 FR 45403, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.156
Manufacturer and private labeler liability.
(a) In accordance with § 429.102, paragraphs (a)(10) and (c), manufacturers and private labelers are prohibited from selling central air conditioners and heat pumps to a routine violator.
(1) To avoid financial penalties, manufacturers and/or private labelers must cease sales to a routine violator within 3 business days from the date of issuance of a Notice of Finding of Routine Violation.
(2) If a Routine Violator files a Notice of Intent to Appeal pursuant to § 429.150, then a manufacturer and/or private labeler may assume the risk of selling central air conditioners to the Routine Violator during the pendency of the appeal.
(3) If the appeal of the Finding of Routine Violator is denied, then the manufacturer and/or private labeler may be fined in accordance with § 429.120, for sale of any units to a routine violator during the pendency of the appeal that do not meet the applicable regional standard.
(b) If a manufacturer and/or private labeler has knowledge of routine violation, then the manufacturer can be held liable for all sales that occurred after the date the manufacturer had knowledge of the routine violation. However, if the manufacturer and/or private labeler reports its suspicion of a routine violation to DOE within 15 days of receipt of such knowledge, then it will not be liable for product sold to the suspected routine violator prior to reporting the routine violation to DOE.
[81 FR 45403, July 14, 2016]
§ 429.158
Product determined noncompliant with regional standards.
(a) If DOE determines a model of outdoor unit fails to meet the applicable regional standard(s) when tested in a combination certified by the same manufacturer, then the outdoor unit basic model will be deemed noncompliant with the regional standard(s). In accordance with § 429.102(a)(10), the outdoor unit manufacturer and/or private
labeler is liable for distribution of noncompliant units in commerce.
(b) If DOE determines a combination fails to meet the applicable regional standard(s) when tested in a combination certified by a manufacturer other than the outdoor unit manufacturer (e.g., ICM), then that combination is deemed noncompliant with the regional standard(s). In accordance with § 429.102(a)(10), the certifying manufacturer is liable for distribution of noncompliant units in commerce.
(c) All such units manufactured and distributed in commerce are presumed to have been installed in a region where they would not comply with the applicable energy conservation standard; however, a manufacturer and/or private labeler may demonstrate through installer records that individual units were installed in a region where the unit is compliant with the applicable standards.
[81 FR 45404, July 14, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 64586, Oct. 25, 2022]
Pt. 429, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 429—Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Covered Consumer Products and Certain High-Volume Commercial Equipment
(a) The first sample size (
n
1
) for enforcement testing must be four or more units, except as provided by § 429.57(e)(1)(i).
(b) Compute the mean of the measured energy performance (x
1
) for all tests as follows:
ER07MR11.132
where x
i
is the measured energy or water efficiency or consumption from test i, and n
1
is the total number of tests.
(c) Compute the standard deviation (s
1
) of the measured energy performance from the n
1
tests as follows:
ER07MR11.133
(d) Compute the standard error (s
x1
) of the measured energy performance from the n
1
tests as follows:
ER07MR11.134
(e)(1) Compute the upper control limit (UCL
1
) and lower control limit (LCL
1
) for the mean of the first sample using the applicable DOE energy efficiency standard (EES) as the desired mean and a probability level of 95 percent (two-tailed test) as follows:
LCL
1
EES —
ts
X
1
X
ER07MR11.135
where t is the statistic based on a 95 percent two-tailed probability level with degrees of freedom (n
1
−1).
(2) For an energy efficiency or water efficiency standard, compare the mean of the first sample (x
1
) with the upper and lower control limits (UCL
1
and LCL
1
) to determine one of the following:
(i) If the mean of the first sample is below the lower control limit, then the basic model is in noncompliance and testing is at an end. (Do not go on to any of the steps below.)
(ii) If the mean of the first sample is equal to or greater than the upper control limit, then the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end. (Do not go on to any of the steps below.)
(iii) If the sample mean is equal to or greater than the lower control limit but less than the upper control limit, then no determination of compliance or noncompliance can be made and a second sample size is determined by Step (e)(3).
(3) For an energy efficiency or water efficiency standard, determine the second sample size (n
2
) as follows:
ER07MR11.136
where s
1
and t have the values used in equations 2 and 4, respectively. The term “0.05 EES” is the difference between the applicable energy efficiency or water efficiency standard and 95 percent of the standard, where 95 percent of the standard is taken as the lower control limit. This procedure yields a sufficient combined sample size (n
1
+ n
2
) to give an estimated 97.5 percent probability of obtaining a determination of compliance when the true mean efficiency is equal to the applicable standard. Given the solution value of n
2
, determine one of the following:
(i) If the value of n
2
is less than or equal to zero and if the mean energy or water efficiency of the first sample (x
1
) is either equal to or greater than the lower control limit (LCL
1
) or equal to or greater than 95 percent of the applicable energy efficiency or water efficiency standard (EES), whichever is greater,
i.e.,
if n
2
≤0 and x
1
≥max (LCL
1
, 0.95 EES), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
(ii) If the value of n
2
is less than or equal to zero and the mean energy efficiency of the first sample (x
1
) is less than the lower control limit (LCL
1
) or less than 95 percent of the applicable energy or water efficiency standard (EES), whichever is greater,
i.e.,
if n
2
≤0 and x
1
≤max (LCL
1
, 0.95 EES), the basic model is not in compliance and testing is at an end.
(iii) If the value of n
2
is greater than zero, then, the value of the second sample size is determined to be the smallest integer equal to or greater than the solution value of n
2
for equation (6). If the value of n
2
so calculated is greater than 21− n
1
, set n
2
equal to 21− n
1
.
(4) Compute the combined mean (x
2
) of the measured energy or water efficiency of the n
1
and n
2
units of the combined first and second samples as follows:
ER07MR11.137
(5) Compute the standard error (S
x2
) of the measured energy or water performance of the n
1
and n
2
units in the combined first and second samples as follows:
ER07MR11.138

# Note:
s
1
is the value obtained in Step (c).
(6) For an energy efficiency standard (EES), compute the lower control limit (LCL
2
) for the mean of the combined first and second samples using the DOE EES as the desired mean and a one-tailed probability level of 97.5 percent (equivalent to the two-tailed probability level of 95 percent used in Step (e)(1)) as follows:
ER07MR11.139
where the t-statistic has the value obtained in Step (e)(1) and s
x2
is the value obtained in Step (e)(5).
(7) For an energy efficiency standard (EES), compare the combined sample mean (x
2
) to the lower control limit (LCL
2
) to determine one of the following:
(i) If the mean of the combined sample (x
2
) is less than the lower control limit (LCL
2
) or 95 percent of the applicable energy efficiency standard (EES), whichever is greater,
i.e.,
if x
2
max (LCL
2
, 0.95 EES), the basic model is not compliant and testing is at an end.
(iii) If the mean of the combined sample (x
2
) is equal to or greater than the lower control limit (LCL
2
) or 95 percent of the applicable energy efficiency standard (EES), whichever is greater,
i.e.,
if x
2
≥max (LCL
2
, 0.95 EES), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
(f)(1) Compute the upper control limit (UCL
1
) and lower control limit (LCL
1
) for the mean of the first sample using the applicable DOE energy consumption standard (ECS) as the desired mean and a probability level of 95 percent (two-tailed test) as follows:
ER07MR11.140
where t is the statistic based on a 95 percent two-tailed probability level with degrees of freedom (n
1
− 1).
(2) For an energy or water consumption standard, compare the mean of the first sample (x
1
) with the upper and lower control limits (UCL
1
and LCL
1
) to determine one of the following:
(i) If the mean of the first sample is above the upper control limit, then the basic model is in noncompliance and testing is at an end. (Do not go on to any of the steps below.)
(ii) If the mean of the first sample is equal to or less than the lower control limit, then the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end. (Do not go on to any of the steps below.)
(iii) If the sample mean is equal to or less than the upper control limit but greater than the lower control limit, then no determination of compliance or noncompliance can be made and a second sample size is determined by Step (f)(3).
(3) For an Energy or Water Consumption Standard, determine the second sample size (n
2
) as follows:
ER07MR11.141
where s
1
and t have the values used in equations (2) and (10), respectively. The term “0.05 ECS” is the difference between the applicable energy or water consumption standard and 105 percent of the standard, where 105 percent of the standard is taken as the upper control limit. This procedure yields a sufficient combined sample size (n
1
+ n
2
) to give an estimated 97.5 percent probability of obtaining a determination of compliance
when the true mean consumption is equal to the applicable standard. Given the solution value of n
2
, determine one of the following:
(i) If the value of n
2
is less than or equal to zero and if the mean energy or water consumption of the first sample (x
1
) is either equal to or less than the upper control limit (UCL
1
) or equal to or less than 105 percent of the applicable energy or water consumption standard (ECS), whichever is less,
i.e.,
if n
2
≤0 and x
1
≤min (UCL
1
, 1.05 ECS), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
(ii) If the value of n
2
is less than or equal to zero and the mean energy or water consumption of the first sample (x
1
) is greater than the upper control limit (UCL
1
) or more than 105 percent of the applicable energy or water consumption standard (ECS), whichever is less,
i.e.,
if n
2
≤0 and x
1
min (UCL
1
, 1.05 EPS), the basic model is not compliant and testing is at an end.
(iii) If the value of n
2
is greater than zero, then the value of the second sample size is determined to be the smallest integer equal to or greater than the solution value of n
2
for equation (11). If the value of n
2
so calculated is greater than 21−n
1
, set n
2
equal to 21−n
1
.
(4) Compute the combined mean (x
2
) of the measured energy or water consumption of the n
1
and n
2
units of the combined first and second samples as follows:
ER07MR11.142
(5) Compute the standard error (S
x2
) of the measured energy or water consumption of the n
1
and n
2
units in the combined first and second samples as follows:
ER07MR11.143

# Note:
s
1
is the value obtained in Step (c).
(6) For an energy or water consumption standard (ECS), compute the upper control limit (UCL
2
) for the mean of the combined first and second samples using the DOE ECS as the desired mean and a one-tailed probability level of 97.5 percent (equivalent to the two-tailed probability level of 95 percent used in Step (f)(1)) as follows:
ER07MR11.144
where the t-statistic has the value obtained in (f)(1).
(7) For an energy or water consumption standard (ECS), compare the combined sample mean (x
2
) to the upper control limit (UCL
2
) to determine one of the following:
(i) If the mean of the combined sample (x
2
) is greater than the upper control limit (UCL
2
) or 105 percent of the ECS whichever is less,
i.e.,
if x
2
min (UCL
2
, 1.05 ECS), the basic model is not compliant and testing is at an end.
(ii) If the mean of the combined sample (x
2
) is equal to or less than the upper control limit (UCL
2
) or 105 percent of the applicable energy or water performance standard (ECS), whichever is less,
i.e.,
if x
2
≤min (UCL
2
, 1.05 ECS), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
Pt. 429, Subpt. C, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 429—Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Covered Equipment and Certain Low-Volume Covered Products
The Department will determine compliance as follows:
(a) The first sample size (n
1
) must be four or more units, except as provided by § 429.57(e)(1)(ii).
(b) Compute the mean of the measured energy performance (x
1
) for all tests as follows:
ER07MR11.145
where x
i
is the measured energy efficiency or consumption from test i, and n
1
is the total number of tests.
(c) Compute the standard deviation (s
1
) of the measured energy performance from the n
1
tests as follows:
ER07MR11.146
(d) Compute the standard error (s
x1
) of the measured energy performance from the n
1
tests as follows:
ER07MR11.147
(e)(1) For an energy efficiency standard (EES), determine the appropriate lower control limit (LCL
1
) according to:
ER07MR11.148
And use whichever is greater. Where EES is the energy efficiency standard and t is a statistic based on a 97.5 percent, one-sided confidence limit and a sample size of n
1
.
(2) For an energy consumption standard (ECS), determine the appropriate upper control limit (UCL
1
) according to:
ER07MR11.149
And use whichever is less, where ECS is the energy consumption standard and t is a statistic based on a 97.5 percent, one-sided confidence limit and a sample size of n
1
.
(f)(1) Compare the sample mean to the control limit.
(i) The basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end if:
(A) For an energy or water efficiency standard, the sample mean is equal to or greater than the lower control limit, or
(B) For an energy or water consumption standard, the sample mean is equal to or less than the upper control limit.
Pt. 429, Subpt. C, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart C of Part 429—Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Distribution Transformers
(a) When testing distribution transformers, the number of units in the sample (m
1
) shall be in accordance with § 429.47(a) and DOE shall perform the following number of tests:
(1) If DOE tests four or more units, it will test each unit once;
(2) If DOE tests two or three units, it will test each unit twice; or
(3) If DOE tests one unit, it will test that unit four times.
(b) DOE shall determine compliance as follows:
(1) Compute the mean (X
1
) of the measured energy performance of the n
1
tests in the first sample as follows:
ER07MR11.150
where X
i
is the measured efficiency of test i.
(2) Compute the sample standard deviation (S
1
) of the measured efficiency of the n
1
tests in the first sample as follows:
ER07MR11.151
(3) Compute the standard error (SE(X
1
)) of the mean efficiency of the first sample as follows:
ER07MR11.152
(4) Compute the sample size discount (SSD(m
1
)) as follows:
ER07MR11.153
where m
1
is the number of units in the sample, and RE is the applicable DOE efficiency when the test is to determine compliance with the applicable energy conservation standard, or is the labeled efficiency when the test is to determine compliance with the labeled efficiency value.
(5) Compute the lower control limit (LCL
1
) for the mean of
ER02MY11.089
(6) Compare the mean of the first sample (X
1
) with the lower control limit (LCL
1
) to determine one of the following:
(i) If the mean of the first sample is below the lower control limit, then the basic model is not compliant and testing is at an end.
(ii) If the mean is equal to or greater than the lower control limit, no final determination of compliance or noncompliance can be made; proceed to Step (7).
(7) Determine the recommended sample size (n) as follows:
ER07MR11.155
Given the value of n, determine one of the following:
(i) If the value of n is less than or equal to n
1
and if the mean energy efficiency of the first sample (X
1
) is equal to or greater than the lower control limit (LCL
1
), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
(ii) If the value of n is greater than n
1
, the basic model is not compliant. The size of a second sample n
2
is determined to be the smallest integer equal to or greater than the difference n−n
1
. If the value of n
2
so calculated is greater than 21−n
1
, set n
2
equal to 21−n
1
.
(8) Compute the combined (X
2
) mean of the measured energy performance of the n
1
and n
2
units of the combined first and second samples as follows:
ER07MR11.156
(9) Compute the standard error (SE(X
2
)) of the mean full-load efficiency of the n
1
and n
2
units in the combined first and second samples as follows:
ER07MR11.157
(Note that S
1
is the value obtained above in (2).)
(10) Set the lower control limit (LCL
2
) to,
ER07MR11.158
where t has the value obtained in (5) and SSD(m
1
) is sample size discount determined in (4), and compare the combined sample mean (X
2
) to the lower control limit (LCL
2
) to determine one of the following:
(i) If the mean of the combined sample (X
2
) is less than the lower control limit (LCL
2
), the basic model is not compliant and testing is at an end.
(ii) If the mean of the combined sample (X
2
) is equal to or greater than the lower control limit (LCL
2
), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24781, May 2, 2011]
Pt. 429, Subpt. C, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart C of Part 429—Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Uninterruptible Power Supplies
(a) The minimum sample size for enforcement testing will be one unit.
(b) Compute the average load adjusted efficiency (
Eff
avg
) of the unit in the sample.
(c) Determine the applicable DOE energy efficiency standard (EES).
(d) If all
Eff
avg
are equal to or greater than EES, then the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.
(e) If any
Eff
avg
is less than EES, then the basic model is in noncompliance and testing is at an end.
[81 FR 89822, Dec. 12, 2016]
Pt. 430

# PART 430—ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
430.1
Purpose and scope.
430.2
Definitions.
430.3
Materials incorporated by reference.
430.4
Sources for information and guidance.
430.5
Error correction procedures for energy conservation standards rules.

# Subpart B—Test Procedures
430.21
Purpose and scope.
430.23
Test procedures for the measurement of energy and water consumption.
430.24
[Reserved]
430.25
Laboratory Accreditation Program.
430.27
Petitions for waiver and interim waiver.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Refrigerators, Refrigerator-Freezers, and Miscellaneous Refrigeration Products
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Freezers
Appendix C1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers
Appendix C2 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers
Appendix D1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers
Appendix D2 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers
Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Water Heaters
Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Room Air Conditioners
Appendix G to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Unvented Home Heating Equipment
Appendix H to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Power Consumption of Television Sets
Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Microwave Ovens
Appendix I1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Conventional Cooking Products
Appendix J to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Automatic and Semi-Automatic Clothes Washers
Appendix J1 to Subpart B of Part 430 [Reserved]
Appendix J2 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Automatic and Semi-automatic Clothes Washers
Appendix J3 to Subpart B of Part 430—Energy Test Cloth Specifications and Procedures for Determining Correction Coefficients of New Energy Test Cloth Lots
Appendixes K-L to Subpart B of Part 430 [Reserved]
Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
Appendix N to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Furnaces Other Than Boilers
Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
Appendix P to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Pool Heaters
Appendix Q to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts
Appendix R to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring Electrical and Photometric Characteristics of General Service Fluorescent Lamps, Incandescent Reflector Lamps, and General Service Incandescent Lamps
Appendix S to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Water Consumption of Faucets and Showerheads
Appendix T to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Water Consumption of Water Closets and Urinals
Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
Appendix V to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fan Light Kits Packaged With Other Fluorescent Lamps (Not Compact Fluorescent Lamps or General Service Fluorescent Lamps), Packaged With Consumer-Replaceable SSL (Not Integrated LED Lamps), Packaged With Non-Consumer-Replaceable SSL, or Packaged With Other SSL Lamps That Have an ANSI Standard Base (Not Integrated LED Lamps)
Appendix W to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Compact Fluorescent Lamps
Appendix X to Subpart B of Part 430 [Reserved]
Appendix X1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dehumidifiers
Appendix Y to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers
Appendix Y1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers
Appendix Z to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies
Appendix AA to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Furnace Fans
Appendix BB to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Input Power, Lumen Output, Lamp Efficacy, Correlated Color Temperature (CCT), Color Rendering Index (CRI), Power Factor, Time to Failure, and Standby Mode Power of Integrated Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Lamps
Appendix CC to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Portable Air Conditioners
Appendix CC1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Portable Air Conditioners
Appendix DD to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption and Energy Efficiency of General Service Lamps That Are Not General Service Incandescent Lamps, Compact Fluorescent Lamps, or Integrated LED Lamps
Appendix EE to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method For Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Boilers
Appendix FF to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Air Cleaners
Appendix GG to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Portable Electric Spas

# Subpart C—Energy and Water Conservation Standards
430.31
Purpose and scope.
430.32
Energy and water conservation standards and their compliance dates.
430.33
Preemption of State regulations.
430.34
Energy and water conservation standards amendments.
430.35
Petitions with respect to general service lamps.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 430—Procedures, Interpretations, and Policies for Consideration of New or Revised Energy Conservation Standards and
Test Procedures for Consumer Products and Certain Commercial/Industrial Equipment

# Subpart D—Petitions To Exempt State Regulation From Preemption; Petitions To Withdraw Exemption of State Regulation
430.40
Purpose and scope.
430.41
Prescriptions of a rule.
430.42
Filing requirements.
430.43
Notice of petition.
430.44
Consolidation.
430.45
Hearing.
430.46
Disposition of petitions.
430.47
Effective dates of final rules.
430.48
Request for reconsideration.
430.49
Finality of decision.

# Subpart E—Small Business Exemptions
430.50
Purpose and scope.
430.51
Eligibility.
430.52
Requirements for applications.
430.53
Processing of applications.
430.54
Referral to the Attorney General.
430.55
Evaluation of application.
430.56
Decision and order.
430.57
Duration of temporary exemption.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 6291-6309; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note.

# Source:
42 FR 27898, June 1, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 430.1
Purpose and scope.
This part establishes the regulations for the implementation of part B of title III (42 U.S.C. 6291-6309) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94-163), as amended by Pub. L. 95-619, Pub. L. 100-12, Pub. L. 100-357, and Pub. L. 102-486 which establishes an energy conservation program for consumer products other than automobiles.
[62 FR 29237, May 29, 1997]
§ 430.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, words shall be defined as provided for in section 321 of the Act and as follows—
3-Way incandescent lamp
means an incandescent lamp that—
(1) Employs two filaments, operated separately and in combination, to provide three light levels; and
(2) Is designated on the lamp packaging and marketing materials as being a 3-way incandescent lamp.
700 series fluorescent lamp
means a fluorescent lamp with a color rendering index (measured according to the test procedures outlined in Appendix R to subpart B of this part) that is in the range (inclusive) of 70 to 79.
Act
means the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6291-6316.
Activation lock
means a control mechanism (either by a physical device directly on the water heater or a control system integrated into the water heater) that is locked by default and contains a physical, software, or digital communication that must be activated with an activation key to enable to the product to operate at its designed specifications and capabilities and without which the activation of the product will provide not greater than 50 percent of the rated first hour delivery of hot water certified by the manufacturer.
Active mode
means the condition in which an energy-using product—
(1) Is connected to a main power source;
(2) Has been activated; and
(3) Provides one or more main functions.
Air cleaner
means a product for improving indoor air quality, other than a central air conditioner, room air conditioner, portable air conditioner, dehumidifier, or furnace, that is an electrically-powered, self-contained, mechanically encased assembly that contains means to remove, destroy, or deactivate particulates, VOC, and/or microorganisms from the air. It excludes products that operate solely by means of ultraviolet light without a fan for air circulation.
All-refrigerator
means a refrigerator that does not include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C) as determined according to the provisions in § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter. It may include a compartment of 0.50 cubic-foot capacity (14.2 liters) or less for the freezing and storage of ice.
Annual fuel utilization efficiency
means the efficiency descriptor for furnaces and boilers, determined using
test procedures prescribed under section 323 and based on the assumption that all—
(1) Weatherized warm air furnaces or boilers are located out-of-doors;
(2) Warm air furnaces which are not weatherized are located indoors and all combustion and ventilation air is admitted through grill or ducts from the outdoors and does not communicate with air in the conditioned space;
(3) Boilers which are not weatherized are located within the heated space.
ANSI
means the American National Standards Institute.
Appliance lamp
means any lamp that—
(1) Is specifically designed to operate in a household appliance and has a maximum wattage of 40 watts (including an oven lamp, refrigerator lamp, and vacuum cleaner lamp); and
(2) When sold at retail, is designated and marketed for the intended application, with
(i) The designation on the lamp packaging; and
(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being for appliance use.
ASME
means the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Automatic clothes washer
means a class of clothes washer which has a control system which is capable of scheduling a preselected combination of operations, such as regulation of water temperature, regulation of the water fill level, and performance of wash, rinse, drain, and spin functions without the need for user intervention subsequent to the initiation of machine operation. Some models may require user intervention to initiate these different segments of the cycle after the machine has begun operation, but they do not require the user to intervene to regulate the water temperature by adjusting the external water faucet valves.
Back-up battery charger
means a battery charger excluding UPSs:
(1) That is embedded in a separate end-use product that is designed to continuously operate using mains power (including end-use products that use external power supplies); and
(2) Whose sole purpose is to recharge a battery used to maintain continuity of power in order to provide normal or partial operation of a product in case of input power failure.
Ballast
means a device used with an electric discharge lamp to obtain necessary circuit conditions (voltage, current, and waveform) for starting and operating.
Ballast efficacy factor
means the relative light output divided by the power input of a fluorescent lamp ballast, as measured under test conditions specified in ANSI Standard C82.2-1984.
Ballast luminous efficiency
means the total fluorescent lamp arc power divided by the fluorescent lamp ballast input power multiplied by the appropriate frequency adjustment factor, as defined in appendix Q of subpart B of this part.
Baseboard electric heater
means an electric heater which is intended to be recessed in or surface mounted on walls at floor level, which is characterized by long, low physical dimensions, and which transfers heat by natural convection and/or radiation.
Basic model
means all units of a given type of covered product (or class thereof) manufactured by one manufacturer; having the same primary energy source; and, which have essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics that affect energy consumption, energy efficiency, water consumption, or water efficiency; and
(1) With respect to general service fluorescent lamps, general service incandescent lamps, and incandescent reflector lamps: Lamps that have essentially identical light output and electrical characteristics—including lamp efficacy and color rendering index (CRI).
(2) With respect to faucets and showerheads: Have the identical flow control mechanism attached to or installed within the fixture fittings, or the identical water-passage design features that use the same path of water in the highest flow mode.
(3) With respect to furnace fans: Are marketed and/or designed to be installed in the same type of installation; and
(4) With respect to central air conditioners and central air conditioning
heat pumps essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics means:
(i) For split systems manufactured by outdoor unit manufacturers (OUMs): all individual combinations having the same model of outdoor unit, which means comparably performing compressor(s) [a variation of no more than five percent in displacement rate (volume per time) as rated by the compressor manufacturer, and no more than five percent in capacity and power input for the same operating conditions as rated by the compressor manufacturer], outdoor coil(s) [no more than five percent variation in face area and total fin surface area; same fin material; same tube material], and outdoor fan(s) [no more than ten percent variation in air flow and no more than twenty percent variation in power input];
(ii) For split systems having indoor units manufactured by independent coil manufacturers (ICMs): all individual combinations having comparably performing indoor coil(s) [plus or minus one square foot face area, plus or minus one fin per inch fin density, and the same fin material, tube material, number of tube rows, tube pattern, and tube size]; and
(iii) For single-package systems: all individual models having comparably performing compressor(s) [no more than five percent variation in displacement rate (volume per time) rated by the compressor manufacturer, and no more than five percent variations in capacity and power input rated by the compressor manufacturer corresponding to the same compressor rating conditions], outdoor coil(s) and indoor coil(s) [no more than five percent variation in face area and total fin surface area; same fin material; same tube material], outdoor fan(s) [no more than ten percent variation in outdoor air flow], and indoor blower(s) [no more than ten percent variation in indoor air flow, with no more than twenty percent variation in fan motor power input];
(iv) Except that,
(A) for single-package systems and single-split systems, manufacturers may instead choose to make each individual model/combination its own basic model provided the testing and represented value requirements in 10 CFR 429.16 of this chapter are met; and
(B) For multi-split, multi-circuit, and multi-head mini-split combinations, a basic model may not include both individual small-duct, high velocity (SDHV) combinations and non-SDHV combinations even when they include the same model of outdoor unit. The manufacturer may choose to identify specific individual combinations as additional basic models.
Basic-voltage external power supply
means an external power supply that is not a low-voltage external power supply.
Batch
means a collection of production units of a basic model from which a batch sample is selected.
Batch sample
means the collection of units of the same basic model from which test units are selected.
Batch sample size
means the number of units in a batch sample.
Batch size
means the number of units in a batch.
Battery charger
means a device that charges batteries for consumer products, including battery chargers embedded in other consumer products.
Black light lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed as a black light lamp and is an ultraviolet lamp with the highest radiant power peaks in the UV-A band (315 to 400 nm) of the electromagnetic spectrum.
Blowout action
means a means of flushing a water closet whereby a jet of water directed at the bowl outlet opening pushes the bowl contents into the upleg, over the weir, and into the gravity drainage system.
Blowout bowl
means a non-siphonic water closet bowl with an integral flushing rim, a trap at the rear of the bowl, and a visible or concealed jet that operates with a blowout action.
BPAR incandescent reflector lamp
means a reflector lamp as shown in figure C78.21-278 of ANSI C78.21-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
BR30
means a BR incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 30/8ths of an inch.
BR40
means a BR incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 40/8ths of an inch.
BR incandescent reflector lamp
means a reflector lamp that has a bulged section below the bulb's major diameter and above its approximate base line as shown in Figure 1 (RB) of ANSI C78.79-2020. A BR30 lamp has a lamp wattage of 85 or less than 66 and a BR40 lamp has a lamp wattage of 120 or less.
Btu
means British thermal unit, which is the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit.
Bug lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed as a bug lamp, has radiant power peaks above 550 nm on the electromagnetic spectrum, and has a visible yellow coating.
Built-in compact cooler
means any cooler with a total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet and no more than 24 inches in depth, excluding doors, handles, and custom front panels, that is designed, intended, and marketed exclusively to be:
(1) Installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are attached during installation;
(2) Securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or floor;
(3) Equipped with unfinished sides that are not visible after installation; and
(4) Equipped with an integral factory-finished face or built to accept a custom front panel.
Built-in cooler
means any cooler with a total refrigerated volume of 7.75 cubic feet or greater and no more than 24 inches in depth, excluding doors, handles, and custom front panels; that is designed, intended, and marketed exclusively to be:
(1) Installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are attached during installation;
(2) Securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or floor;
(3) Equipped with unfinished sides that are not visible after installation; and
(4) Equipped with an integral factory-finished face or built to accept a custom front panel.
Built-in refrigerator/refrigerator-freezer/freezer
means any refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer or freezer with 7.75 cubic feet or greater total volume and 24 inches or less depth not including doors, handles, and custom front panels; with sides which are not finished and not designed to be visible after installation; and that is designed, intended, and marketed exclusively (1) To be installed totally encased by cabinetry or panels that are attached during installation, (2) to be securely fastened to adjacent cabinetry, walls or floor, and (3) to either be equipped with an integral factory-finished face or accept a custom front panel.
Candelabra base incandescent lamp
means a lamp that uses a candelabra screw base as described in ANSI C81.61, Specifications for Electric Bases, common designations E11 and E12 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Casement-only
means a room air conditioner designed for mounting in a casement window with an encased assembly with a width of 14.8 inches or less and a height of 11.2 inches or less.
Casement-slider
means a room air conditioner with an encased assembly designed for mounting in a sliding or casement window with a width of 15.5 inches or less.
Ceiling electric heater
means an electric heater which is intended to be recessed in, surface mounted on, or hung from a ceiling, and which transfers heat by radiation and/or convection (either natural or forced).
Ceiling fan
means a nonportable device that is suspended from a ceiling for circulating air via the rotation of fan blades. For the purpose of this definition:
(1) Circulating air means the discharge of air in an upward or downward direction. A ceiling fan that has a ratio of fan blade span (in inches) to maximum rotation rate (in revolutions per minute) greater than 0.06 provides circulating air.
(2) For all other ceiling fan related definitions, see appendix U to this subpart.
Ceiling fan light kit
means equipment designed to provide light from a ceiling fan that can be—
(1) Integral, such that the equipment is attached to the ceiling fan prior to the time of retail sale; or
(2) Attachable, such that at the time of retail sale the equipment is not physically attached to the ceiling fan, but may be included inside the ceiling
fan at the time of sale or sold separately for subsequent attachment to the fan.
Central air conditioner or central air conditioning heat pump
means a product, other than a packaged terminal air conditioner, packaged terminal heat pump, single-phase single-package vertical air conditioner with cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h, single-phase single-package vertical heat pump with cooling capacity less than 65,000 Btu/h, computer room air conditioner, or unitary dedicated outdoor air system as these equipment categories are defined at 10 CFR 431.92, which is powered by single phase electric current, air cooled, rated below 65,000 Btu per hour, not contained within the same cabinet as a furnace, the rated capacity of which is above 225,000 Btu per hour, and is a heat pump or a cooling unit only. A central air conditioner or central air conditioning heat pump may consist of: A single-package unit; an outdoor unit and one or more indoor units; an indoor unit only; or an outdoor unit with no match. In the case of an indoor unit only or an outdoor unit with no match, the unit must be tested and rated as a system (combination of both an indoor and an outdoor unit). For all central air conditioner and central air conditioning heat pump-related definitions, see appendix M or M1 of subpart B of this part.
Central system humidifier
means a class of humidifier designed to add moisture into the air stream of a heating system.
Circulating water heater
means a water heater that does not have an operational scheme in which the burner, heating element, or compressor initiates and/or terminates heating based on sensing flow; has a water temperature sensor located at the inlet or the outlet of the water heater or in a separate storage tank that is the primary means of initiating and terminating heating; and must be used in combination with a recirculating pump to circulate water and either a separate storage tank or water circulation loop in order to achieve the water flow and temperature conditions recommended in the manufacturer's installation and operation instructions. A circulating water heater constitutes a storage-type water heater.
Class A external power supply
—
(1) Means a device that—
(i) Is designed to convert line voltage AC input into lower voltage AC or DC output;
(ii) Is able to convert to only one AC or DC output voltage at a time;
(iii) Is sold with, or intended to be used with, a separate end-use product that constitutes the primary load;
(iv) Is contained in a separate physical enclosure from the end-use product;
(v) Is connected to the end-use product via a removable or hard-wired male/female electrical connection, cable, cord, or other wiring; and
(vi) Has nameplate output power that is less than or equal to 250 watts;
(2) But, does not include any device that—
(i) Requires Federal Food and Drug Administration listing and approval as a medical device in accordance with section 513 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360(c)); or
(ii) Powers the charger of a detachable battery pack or charges the battery of a product that is fully or primarily motor operated.
Clothes washer
means a consumer product designed to clean clothes, utilizing a water solution of soap and/or detergent and mechanical agitation or other movement, and must be one of the following classes: automatic clothes washers, semi-automatic clothes washers, and other clothes washers.
Cold temperature fluorescent lamp
means a fluorescent lamp specifically designed to start at −20 °F when used with a ballast conforming to the requirements of ANSI C78.81 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and ANSI C78.901 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), and is expressly designated as a cold temperature lamp both in markings on the lamp and in marketing materials, including catalogs, sales literature, and promotional material.
Color Rendering Index or CRI
means the measured degree of color shift objects undergo when illuminated by a light source as compared with the color of those same objects when illuminated
by a reference source of comparable color temperature.
Colored fluorescent lamp
means a fluorescent lamp designated and marketed as a colored lamp and not designed or marketed for general illumination applications with either of the following characteristics:
(1) A CRI less than 40, as determined according to the method set forth in CIE Publication 13.3 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3); or
(2) A correlated color temperature less than 2,500K or greater than 7,000K as determined according to the method set forth in IES LM-9 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3).
Colored incandescent lamp
means an incandescent lamp designated and marketed as a colored lamp that has—
(1) A color rendering index of less than 50, as determined according to the test method given in CIE 13.3 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3); or
(2) A correlated color temperature of less than 2,500K, or greater than 4,600K, where correlated temperature is computed according to the “Computation of Correlated Color Temperature and Distribution Temperature,” Journal of the Optical Society of America, (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Colored lamp
means a colored fluorescent lamp, a colored incandescent lamp, or a lamp designed and marketed as a colored lamp with either of the following characteristics (if multiple modes of operation are possible [such as variable CCT], either of the below characteristics must be maintained throughout all modes of operation):
(1) A CRI less than 40, as determined according to the method set forth in CIE 13.3 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3); or
(2) A CCT less than 2,500 K or greater than 7,000 K.
Combination cooler refrigeration product
means any cooler-refrigerator, cooler-refrigerator-freezer, or cooler-freezer.
Combined-duct portable air conditioner
means a portable air conditioner for which condenser inlet and outlet air streams flow through separate ducts housed in a single duct structure.
Commercial and industrial power supply
means a power supply that is used to convert electric current into DC or lower-voltage AC current, is not distributed in commerce for use with a consumer product, and may include any of the following characteristics:
(1) A power supply that requires 3-phase input power and that is incapable of operating on household mains electricity;
(2) A DC-DC-only power supply that is incapable of operating on household mains electricity;
(3) A power supply with a fixed, non-removable connection to an end-use device that is not a consumer product as defined under the Act;
(4) A power supply whose output connector is uniquely shaped to fit only an end-use device that is not a consumer product;
(5) A power supply that cannot be readily connected to an end-use device that is a consumer product without significant modification or customization of the power supply itself or the end-use device;
(6) A power supply packaged with an end-use device that is not a consumer product, as evidenced by either:
(i) Such device being certified as, or declared to be in conformance with, a specific standard applicable only to non-consumer products. For example, a power supply model intended for use with an end-use device that is certified to the following standards would not meet the EPCA definition of an EPS:
(A) CISPR 11 (Class A Equipment), “Industrial, scientific and medical equipment—Radio-frequency disturbance—Limits and methods of measurement”;
(B) UL 1480A, “Standard for Speakers for Commercial and Professional Use”;
(C) UL 813, “Standard for Commercial Audio Equipment”; and
(D) UL 1727, “Standard for Commercial Electric Personal Grooming Appliances”; or
(ii) Such device being excluded or exempted from inclusion within, or conformance with, a law, regulation, or broadly-accepted industry standard where such exclusion or exemption applies only to non-consumer products;
(7) A power supply distributed in commerce for use with an end-use device where:
(i) The end-use device is not a consumer product, as evidenced by either
the circumstances in paragraph (6)(i) or (ii) of this definition; and
(ii) The end-use device for which the power supply is distributed in commerce is reasonably disclosed to the public, such as by identification of the end-use device on the packaging for the power supply, documentation physically present with the power supply, or on the manufacturer's or private labeler's public website; or
(8) A power supply that is not marketed for residential or consumer use, and that is clearly marked (or, alternatively, the packaging of the individual power supply, the shipping container of multiple such power supplies, or associated documentation physically present with the power supply when distributed in commerce is clearly marked) “FOR USE WITH COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT ONLY” or “NOT FOR RESIDENTIAL OR CONSUMER USE,” with the marking designed and applied so that the marking will be visible and legible during customary conditions for the item on which the marking is placed.
Compact fluorescent lamp (CFL)
means an integrated or non-integrated single-base, low-pressure mercury, electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light; the term does not include circline or U-shaped lamps.
Compact refrigerator/refrigerator-freezer/freezer
means any refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer or freezer with a total refrigerated volume of less than 7.75 cubic feet (220 liters). (Total refrigerated volume shall be determined using the applicable test procedure appendix prescribed in subpart B of this part.)
Component video
means a video display interface as defined in the Consumer Electronics Association's (CEA) standard, CEA-770.3-D (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Composite video
means a video display interface that uses Radio Corporation of America (RCA) connections carrying a signal defined by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers' (SMPTE) standard, SMPTE 170M-2004 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) for regions that support a power frequency of 59.94 Hz or International Telecommunication Union's (ITU) standard, ITU-R BT 470-6 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) for regions that support a power frequency of 50 Hz.
Consumer product
means any article (other than an automobile, as defined in Section 501(1) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act):
(1) Of a type—
(i) Which in operation consumes, or is designed to consume, energy or, with respect to showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals, water; and
(ii) Which, to any significant extent, is distributed in commerce for personal use or consumption by individuals;
(2) Without regard to whether such article of such type is in fact distributed in commerce for personal use or consumption by an individual, except that such term includes fluorescent lamp ballasts, general service fluorescent lamps, incandescent reflector lamps, showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals distributed in commerce for personal or commercial use or consumption.
Consumer refrigeration product
means a refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer, freezer, or miscellaneous refrigeration product.
Contractor
means a person (other than the manufacturer or distributor) who sells to and/or installs for an end user a central air conditioner subject to regional standards. The term “end user” means the entity that purchases or selects for purchase the central air conditioner. Some examples of typical “end users” are homeowners, building owners, building managers, and property developers.
Controlling parameter
means a measurable quantity or an algorithm (such as temperature or usage pattern) used for inferring heating load to a residential boiler, which would then result in incremental changes in boiler supply water temperature.
Convection microwave oven
means a microwave oven that incorporates convection features and any other means of cooking in a single compartment.
Conventional cooking top
means a category of cooking products which is a household cooking appliance consisting of a horizontal surface containing one
or more surface units that utilize a gas flame, electric resistance heating, or electric inductive heating. This includes any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
Conventional oven
means a category of cooking products which is a household cooking appliance consisting of one or more compartments intended for the cooking or heating of food by means of either a gas flame or electric resistance heating. It does not include portable or countertop ovens which use electric resistance heating for the cooking or heating of food and are designed for an electrical supply of approximately 120 volts. This includes any conventional oven(s) component of a combined cooking product.
Conventional room air cleaner
means an air cleaner that—
(1) Is a portable or wall mounted (fixed) unit, excluding ceiling mounted unit, that plugs into an electrical outlet;
(2) Operates with a fan for air circulation; and
(3) Contains means to remove, destroy, and/or deactivate particulates. The term portable is as defined in section 2.1.3.1 of AHAM AC-7-2022 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and fixed is as defined in section 2.1.3.2 of AHAM AC-7-2022.
Cooking products
means consumer products that are used as the major household cooking appliances. They are designed to cook or heat different types of food by one or more of the following sources of heat: Gas, electricity, or microwave energy. Each product may consist of a horizontal cooking top containing one or more surface units and/or one or more heating compartments.
Cooler
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration capable of operating on single-phase, alternating current and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures either:
(1) No lower than 39 °F (3.9 °C); or
(2) In a range that extends no lower than 37 °F (2.8 °C) but at least as high as 60 °F (15.6 °C) as determined according to the applicable provisions in § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.
Cooler-all-refrigerator
means a cooler-refrigerator that does not include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C) as determined according to the provisions in § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter. It may include a compartment of 0.50 cubic-foot capacity (14.2 liters) or less for the freezing and storage of ice.
Cooler-freezer
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only, and consists of two or more compartments, including at least one cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part, where the remaining compartment(s) are capable of maintaining compartment temperatures at 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to the provisions in § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.
Cooler-refrigerator
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only, and consists of two or more compartments, including at least one cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part, where:
(1) At least one of the remaining compartments is not a cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter;
(2) The cabinet may also include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter; but
(3) The cabinet does not provide a separate low temperature compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 8 °F (−13.3 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.
Cooler-refrigerator-freezer
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only, and consists of three or more compartments, including at least one cooler
compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part, where:
(1) At least one of the remaining compartments is not a cooler compartment as defined in appendix A of subpart B of this part and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter; and
(2) At least one other compartment is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 8 °F (−13.3 °C) and may be adjusted by the user to a temperature of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to § 429.61(d)(2) of this chapter.
Correlated color temperature (CCT)
means the absolute temperature of a blackbody whose chromaticity most nearly resembles that of the light source.
Covered product
means a consumer product—
(1) Of a type specified in section 322 of the Act; or
(2) That is an air cleaner, battery charger, ceiling fan, ceiling fan light kit, dehumidifier, external power supply, medium base compact fluorescent lamp, miscellaneous refrigeration product, portable air conditioner, portable electric spa, or torchiere.
Dealer
means a type of contractor, generally with a relationship with one or more specific manufacturers.
Decorative hearth product
means a gas-fired appliance that—
(1) Simulates a solid-fueled fireplace or presents a flame pattern;
(2) Includes products designed for indoor use, outdoor use, or either indoor or outdoor use;
(3) Is not for use with a thermostat;
(4) For products designed for indoor use, is not designed to provide space heating to the space in which it is installed; and
(5) For products designed for outdoor use, is not designed to provide heat proximate to the unit.
Dehumidifier
means a product, other than a portable air conditioner, room air conditioner, or packaged terminal air conditioner, that is a self-contained, electrically operated, and mechanically encased assembly consisting of—
(1) A refrigerated surface (evaporator) that condenses moisture from the atmosphere;
(2) A refrigerating system, including an electric motor;
(3) An air-circulating fan; and
(4) A means for collecting or disposing of the condensate.
Design voltage
with respect to an incandescent lamp means:
(1) The voltage marked as the intended operating voltage;
(2) The mid-point of the voltage range if the lamp is marked with a voltage range; or
(3) 120 V if the lamp is not marked with a voltage or voltage range.
Designed and marketed
means exclusively designed to fulfill the indicated application and, when distributed in commerce, designated and marketed solely for that application, with the designation prominently displayed on the packaging and all publicly available documents (
e.g.,
product literature, catalogs, and packaging labels). This definition applies to the following covered lighting products: Fluorescent lamp ballasts; fluorescent lamps; general service fluorescent lamps; general service incandescent lamps; general service lamps; incandescent lamps; incandescent reflector lamps; compact fluorescent lamps (including medium base compact fluorescent lamps); LED lamps; and specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballasts.
Detachable battery
means a battery that is—
(1) Contained in a separate enclosure from the product; and
(2) Intended to be removed or disconnected from the product for recharging.
Direct heating equipment
means vented home heating equipment and unvented home heating equipment.
Direct operation external power supply
means an external power supply that can operate a consumer product that is not a battery charger without the assistance of a battery.
Direct vent system
means a system supplied by a manufacturer which provides outdoor air or air from an unheated space (such as an attic or crawl space) directly to a furnace or vented heater for combustion and for
draft relief if the unit is equipped with a draft control device.
Dishwasher
means a cabinet-like appliance which with the aid of water and detergent, washes, rinses, and dries (when a drying process is included) dishware, glassware, eating utensils, and most cooking utensils by chemical, mechanical and/or electrical means and discharges to the plumbing drainage system.
Distributor
means a person (other than a manufacturer or retailer) to whom a consumer appliance product is delivered or sold for purposes of distribution in commerce.
DOE
means the Department of Energy.
Dual-duct portable air conditioner
means a portable air conditioner that draws some or all of the condenser inlet air from outside the conditioned space through a duct attached to an adjustable window bracket, may draw additional condenser inlet air from the conditioned space, and discharges the condenser outlet air outside the conditioned space by means of a separate duct attached to an adjustable window bracket.
Dual-flush water closet
means a water closet incorporating a feature that allows the user to flush the water closet with either a reduced or a full volume of water.
Electric boiler
means an electrically powered furnace designed to supply low pressure steam or hot water for space heating application. A low pressure steam boiler operates at or below 15 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) steam pressure; a hot water boiler operates at or below 160 psig water pressure and 250 °F. water temperature.
Electric central furnace
means a furnace designed to supply heat through a system of ducts with air as the heating medium, in which heat is generated by one or more electric resistance heating elements and the heated air is circulated by means of a fan or blower.
Electric circulating water heater
means a circulating water heater with an input of 12 kW or less (including heat pump-only units with power inputs of no more than 24 A at 250 V).
Electric clothes dryer
means a cabinet-like appliance designed to dry fabrics in a tumble-type drum with forced air circulation. The heat source is electricity and the drum and blower(s) are driven by an electric motor(s).
Electric heater
means an electric appliance which is a class of unvented home heating equipment in which heat is generated from electrical energy and dissipated by convection and radiation and includes baseboard electric heaters, ceiling electric heaters, floor electric heaters, portable electric heaters, and wall electric heaters.
Electric instantaneous water heater
means a water heater that uses electricity as the energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 12 kW or less, and contains no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.
Electric pool heater
means a pool heater other than an electric spa heater that uses electricity as its primary energy source.
Electric spa heater
means a pool heater that—
(1) Uses electricity as its primary energy source;
(2) Has an output capacity (as measured according to appendix P to subpart B of part 430) of 11 kW or less; and
(3) Is designed to be installed within a portable electric spa.
Electric storage water heater
means a water heater that uses electricity as the energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 12 kW or less, and contains more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.
Electromechanical hydraulic water closet
means any water closet that utilizes electrically operated devices, such as, but not limited to, air compressors, pumps, solenoids, motors, or macerators in place of or to aid gravity in evacuating waste from the toilet bowl.
Electronic ballast
means a device that uses semiconductors as the primary means to control lamp starting and operation.
Energy conservation standard
means any standards meeting the definitions of that term in 42 U.S.C. 6291(6) and 42 U.S.C. 6311(18) as well as any other water conservation standards and design requirements found in this part or parts 430 or 431.
Energy use of a type of consumer product which is used by households
means the energy consumed by such product
within housing units occupied by households (such as energy for space heating and cooling, water heating, the operation of appliances, or other activities of the households), and includes energy consumed on any property that is contiguous with a housing unit and that is used primarily by the household occupying the housing unit (such as energy for exterior lights or heating a pool).
ER incandescent reflector lamp
means a reflector lamp that has an elliptical section below the major diameter of the bulb and above the approximate base line of the bulb, as shown in Figure 1 (RE) of ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and product space drawings shown in ANSI C78.21-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
ER30
means an ER incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 30/8ths of an inch.
ER40
means an ER incandescent reflector lamp with a diameter of 40/8ths of an inch.
Estimated annual operating cost
means the aggregate retail cost of the energy which is likely to be consumed annually, and in the case of showerheads, faucets, water closets, and urinals, the aggregate retail cost of water and wastewater treatment services likely to be incurred annually, in representative use of a consumer product, determined in accordance with Section 323 of EPCA (42 U.S.C. 6293).
External power supply
means an external power supply circuit that is used to convert household electric current into DC current or lower-voltage AC current to operate a consumer product. However, the term does not include any “commercial and industrial power supply” as defined in this section, or a power supply circuit, driver, or device that is designed exclusively to be connected to, and power—
(1) Light-emitting diodes providing illumination;
(2) Organic light-emitting diodes providing illumination; or
(3) Ceiling fans using direct current motors.
External power supply design family
means a set of external power supply basic models, produced by the same manufacturer, which share the same circuit layout, output power, and output cord resistance, but differ in output voltage.
Faucet
means a lavatory faucet, kitchen faucet, metering faucet, or replacement aerator for a lavatory or kitchen faucet, excluding low-pressure water dispensers and pot fillers.
Fitting
means a device that controls and guides the flow of water.
Floor electric heater
means an electric heater which is intended to be recessed in a floor, and which transfers heat by radiation and/or convection (either natural or forced).
Fluorescent lamp
means a low pressure mercury electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light, including only the following:
(1) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 4-foot medium bipin lamps) with medium bipin bases of nominal overall length of 48 inches and rated wattage of 25 or more;
(2) Any U-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 2-foot U-shaped lamps) with medium bipin bases of nominal overall length between 22 and 25 inches and rated wattage of 25 or more;
(3) Any rapid start lamp (commonly referred to as 8-foot high output lamps) with recessed double contact bases of nominal overall length of 96 inches;
(4) Any instant start lamp (commonly referred to as 8-foot slimline lamps) with single pin bases of nominal overall length of 96 inches and rated wattage of 49 or more;
(5) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to as 4-foot miniature bipin standard output lamps) with miniature bipin bases of nominal overall length between 45 and 48 inches and rated wattage of 25 or more; and
(6) Any straight-shaped lamp (commonly referred to 4-foot miniature bipin high output lamps) with miniature bipin bases of nominal overall length between 45 and 48 inches and rated wattage of 44 or more.
Fluorescent lamp ballast
means a device which is used to start and operate fluorescent lamps by providing a starting voltage and current and limiting the current during normal operation.
Fluorescent lamp designed for use in reprographic equipment
means a fluorescent lamp intended for use in equipment used to reproduce, reprint, or copy graphic material.
Flushometer tank
means a device whose function is defined in flushometer valve, but integrated within an accumulator vessel affixed and adjacent to the fixture inlet so as to cause an effective enlargement of the supply line immediately before the unit.
Flushometer valve
means a valve attached to a pressurized water supply pipe and so designed that when actuated, it opens the line for direct flow into the fixture at a rate and quantity to properly operate the fixture, and then gradually closes to provide trap reseal in the fixture in order to avoid water hammer. The pipe to which this device is connected is in itself of sufficient size, that when open, will allow the device to deliver water at a sufficient rate of flow for flushing purposes.
Forced air central furnace
means a gas or oil burning furnace designed to supply heat through a system of ducts with air as the heating medium. The heat generated by combustion of gas or oil is transferred to the air within a casing by conduction through heat exchange surfaces and is circulated through the duct system by means of a fan or blower.
Freestanding compact cooler
means any cooler, excluding built-in compact coolers, with a total refrigerated volume less than 7.75 cubic feet.
Freestanding cooler
means any cooler, excluding built-in coolers, with a total refrigerated volume of 7.75 cubic feet or greater.
Freezer
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to the provisions in § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter. It does not include any refrigerated cabinet that consists solely of an automatic ice maker and an ice storage bin arranged so that operation of the automatic icemaker fills the bin to its capacity. However, the term does not include:
(1) Any product that does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly; or
(2) Any miscellaneous refrigeration product that must comply with an applicable miscellaneous refrigeration product energy conservation standard.
Furnace
means a product which utilizes only single-phase electric current, or single-phase electric current or DC current in conjunction with natural gas, propane, or home heating oil, and which—
(1) Is designed to be the principal heating source for the living space of a residence;
(2) Is not contained within the same cabinet with a central air conditioner whose rated cooling capacity is above 65,000 Btu per hour;
(3) Is an electric central furnace, electric boiler, forced-air central furnace, gravity central furnace, or low-pressure steam or hot water boiler; and
(4) Has a heat input rate of less than 300,000 Btu per hour for electric boilers and low-pressure steam or hot water boilers and less than 225,000 Btu per hour for forced-air central furnaces, gravity central furnaces, and electric central furnaces.
Furnace fan
means an electrically-powered device used in a consumer product for the purpose of circulating air through ductwork.
Gas
means either natural gas or propane.
Gas clothes dryer
means a cabinet-like appliance designed to dry fabrics in a tumble-type drum with forced air circulation. The heat source is gas and the drum and blower(s) are driven by an electric motor(s).
Gas-fired circulating water heater
means a circulating water heater with a nominal input of 75,000 Btu/h or less.
Gas-fired instantaneous water heater
means a water heater that uses gas as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating less than 200,000 Btu/h, and contains no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.
Gas-fired pool heater
means a pool heater that uses gas as its primary energy source.
Gas-fired storage water heater
means a water heater that uses gas as the main
energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 75,000 Btu/h or less, and contains more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.
General lighting application
means lighting that provides an interior or exterior area with overall illumination.
General service fluorescent lamp
means any fluorescent lamp which can be used to satisfy the majority of fluorescent lighting applications, but does not include any lamp designed and marketed for the following nongeneral application:
(1) Fluorescent lamps designed to promote plant growth;
(2) Fluorescent lamps specifically designed for cold temperature applications;
(3) Colored fluorescent lamps;
(4) Impact-resistant fluorescent lamps;
(5) Reflectorized or aperture lamps;
(6) Fluorescent lamps designed for use in reprographic equipment;
(7) Lamps primarily designed to produce radiation in the ultra-violet region of the spectrum; and
(8) Lamps with a Color Rendering Index of 87 or greater.
General service incandescent lamp
means a standard incandescent or halogen type lamp that is intended for general service applications; has a medium screw base; has a lumen range of not less than 310 lumens and not more than 2,600 lumens or, in the case of a modified spectrum lamp, not less than 232 lumens and not more than 1,950 lumens; and is capable of being operated at a voltage range at least partially within 110 and 130 volts; however, this definition does not apply to the following incandescent lamps—
(1) An appliance lamp;
(2) A black light lamp;
(3) A bug lamp;
(4) A colored lamp;
(5) A G shape lamp with a diameter of 5 inches or more as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3);
(6) An infrared lamp;
(7) A left-hand thread lamp;
(8) A marine lamp;
(9) A marine signal service lamp;
(10) A mine service lamp;
(11) A plant light lamp;
(12) An R20 short lamp;
(13) A sign service lamp;
(14) A silver bowl lamp;
(15) A showcase lamp; and
(16) A traffic signal lamp.
General service lamp
means a lamp that has an ANSI base; is able to operate at a voltage of 12 volts or 24 volts, at or between 100 to 130 volts, at or between 220 to 240 volts, or of 277 volts for integrated lamps (as set out in this definition), or is able to operate at any voltage for non-integrated lamps (as set out in this definition); has an initial lumen output of greater than or equal to 310 lumens (or 232 lumens for modified spectrum general service incandescent lamps) and less than or equal to 3,300 lumens; is not a light fixture; is not an LED downlight retrofit kit; and is used in general lighting applications. General service lamps include, but are not limited to, general service incandescent lamps, compact fluorescent lamps, general service light-emitting diode lamps, and general service organic light emitting diode lamps. General service lamps do not include:
(1) Appliance lamps;
(2) Black light lamps;
(3) Bug lamps;
(4) Colored lamps;
(5) G shape lamps with a diameter of 5 inches or more as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3);
(6) General service fluorescent lamps;
(7) High intensity discharge lamps;
(8) Infrared lamps;
(9) J, JC, JCD, JCS, JCV, JCX, JD, JS, and JT shape lamps that do not have Edison screw bases;
(10) Lamps that have a wedge base or prefocus base;
(11) Left-hand thread lamps;
(12) Marine lamps;
(13) Marine signal service lamps;
(14) Mine service lamps;
(15) MR shape lamps that have a first number symbol equal to 16 (diameter equal to 2 inches) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), operate at 12 volts, and have a lumen output greater than or equal to 800;
(16) Other fluorescent lamps;
(17) Plant light lamps;
(18) R20 short lamps;
(19) Reflector lamps (as set out in this definition) that have a first number symbol less than 16 (diameter less than 2 inches) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and that do not have E26/E24, E26d, E26/50x39, E26/53x39, E29/28, E29/53x39, E39, E39d, EP39, or EX39 bases;
(20) S shape or G shape lamps that have a first number symbol less than or equal to 12.5 (diameter less than or equal to 1.5625 inches) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2014 (R2020) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3);
(21) Sign service lamps;
(22) Silver bowl lamps;
(23) Showcase lamps;
(24) Specialty MR lamps;
(25) T shape lamps that have a first number symbol less than or equal to 8 (diameter less than or equal to 1 inch) as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), nominal overall length less than 12 inches, and that are not compact fluorescent lamps (as set out in this definition);
(26) Traffic signal lamps.
General service light-emitting diode (LED) lamp
means an integrated or non-integrated LED lamp designed for use in general lighting applications (as defined in this section) and that uses light-emitting diodes as the primary source of light.
General service organic light-emitting diode (OLED) lamp
means an integrated or non- integrated OLED lamp designed for use in general lighting applications (as defined in this section) and that uses organic light-emitting diodes as the primary source of light.
Gravity central furnace
means a gas fueled furnace which depends primarily on natural convection for circulation of heated air and which is designed to be used in conjunction with a system of ducts.
Gravity flush tank water closet
means a water closet designed to flush the bowl with water supplied by gravity only.
Grid-enabled water heater
means an electric resistance water heater that—
(1) Has a rated storage tank volume of more than 75 gallons;
(2) Is manufactured on or after April 16, 2015;
(3) Is equipped at the point of manufacture with an activation lock and;
(4) Bears a permanent label applied by the manufacturer that—
(i) Is made of material not adversely affected by water;
(ii) Is attached by means of non-water-soluble adhesive; and
(iii) Advises purchasers and end-users of the intended and appropriate use of the product with the following notice printed in 16.5 point Arial Narrow Bold font: “IMPORTANT INFORMATION: This water heater is intended only for use as part of an electric thermal storage or demand response program. It will not provide adequate hot water unless enrolled in such a program and activated by your utility company or another program operator. Confirm the availability of a program in your local area before purchasing or installing this product.”
Hand-held showerhead
means a showerhead that can be held or fixed in place for the purpose of spraying water onto a bather and that is connected to a flexible hose.
High-definition multimedia interface or HDMI®
means an audio and video interface as defined by HDMI® Specification Informational Version 1.0 or greater (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Home heating equipment, not including furnaces
means vented home heating equipment and unvented home heating equipment.
Household
means an entity consisting of either an individual, a family, or a group of unrelated individuals, who reside in a particular housing unit. For the purpose of this definition:
(1)
Group quarters
means living quarters that are occupied by an institutional group of 10 or more unrelated persons, such as a nursing home, military barracks, halfway house, college dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, convent, shelter, jail or correctional institution.
(2)
Housing unit
means a house, an apartment, a group of rooms, or a single room occupied as separate living quarters, but does not include group quarters.
(3)
Separate living quarters
means living quarters:
(i) To which the occupants have access either:
(A) Directly from outside of the building, or
(B) Through a common hall that is accessible to other living quarters and that does not go through someone else's living quarters, and
(ii) Occupied by one or more persons who live and eat separately from occupant(s) of other living quarters, if any, in the same building.
Immersed heating element
means an electrically powered heating device which is designed to operate while totally immersed in water in such a manner that the heat generated by the device is imparted directly to the water.
Impact-resistant fluorescent lamp
means a lamp that:
(1) Has a coating or equivalent technology that is compliant with NSF/ANSI 51 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and is designed to contain the glass if the glass envelope of the lamp is broken; and
(2) Is designated and marketed for the intended application, with:
(i) The designation on the lamp packaging; and
(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being impact-resistant, shatter-resistant, shatter-proof, or shatter-protected.
Import
means to import into the customs territory of the United States.
Incandescent lamp
means a lamp in which light is produced by a filament heated to incandescence by an electric current, including only the following:
(1) Any lamp (commonly referred to as lower wattage non-reflector general service lamps, including any tungsten halogen lamp) that has a rated wattage between 30 and 199, has an E26 medium screw base, has a rated voltage or voltage range that lies at least partially in the range of 115 and 130 volts, and is not a reflector lamp.
(2) Any incandescent reflector lamp.
(3) Any general service incandescent lamp (commonly referred to as a high-or higher-wattage lamp) that has a rated wattage above 199 (above 205 for a high wattage reflector lamp).
Incandescent reflector lamp
(commonly referred to as a reflector lamp) means any lamp in which light is produced by a filament heated to incandescence by an electric current, which: contains an inner reflective coating on the outer bulb to direct the light; is not colored; is not designed for rough or vibration service applications; is not an R20 short lamp; has an R, PAR, ER, BR, BPAR, or similar bulb shapes with an E26 medium screw base; has a rated voltage or voltage range that lies at least partially in the range of 115 and 130 volts; has a diameter that exceeds 2.25 inches; and has a rated wattage that is 40 watts or higher.
Indirect operation external power supply
means an external power supply that cannot operate a consumer product that is not a battery charger without the assistance of a battery as determined by the steps in paragraphs (1)(i) through (v) of this definition:
(1) If the external power supply (EPS) can be connected to an end-use consumer product and that consumer product can be operated using battery power, the method for determining whether that EPS is incapable of operating that consumer product directly is as follows:
(i) If the end-use product has a removable battery, remove it for the remainder of the test and proceed to the step in paragraph (1)(v) of this definition. If not, proceed to the step in paragraph (1)(ii).
(ii) Charge the battery in the application via the EPS such that the application can operate as intended before taking any additional steps.
(iii) Disconnect the EPS from the application. From an off mode state, turn on the application and record the time necessary for it to become operational to the nearest five second increment (5 sec, 10 sec, etc.).
(iv) Operate the application using power only from the battery until the application stops functioning due to the battery discharging.
(v) Connect the EPS first to mains and then to the application. Immediately attempt to operate the application. If the battery was removed for testing and the end-use product operates as intended, the EPS is not an indirect operation EPS and paragraph 2 of this definition does not apply. If the battery could not be removed for testing, record the time for the application to become operational to the nearest five second increment (5 seconds, 10 seconds, etc.).
(2) If the time recorded in paragraph (1)(v) of this definition is greater than the summation of the time recorded in paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition and five seconds, the EPS cannot operate the application directly and is an indirect operation EPS.
Infrared lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed as an infrared lamp; has its highest radiant power peaks in the infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum (770 nm to 1 mm); has a rated wattage of 125 watts or greater; and which has a primary purpose of providing heat.
Installation of a central air conditioner
means the connection of the refrigerant lines and/or electrical systems to make the central air conditioner operational.
Integrated lamp
means a lamp that contains all components necessary for the starting and stable operation of the lamp, does not include any replaceable or interchangeable parts, and is connected directly to a branch circuit through an ANSI base and corresponding ANSI standard lamp-holder (socket).
Integrated light-emitting diode lamp
means an integrated LED lamp as defined in ANSI/IES RP-16 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Intermediate base incandescent lamp
means a lamp that uses an intermediate screw base as described in ANSI C81.61, Specifications for Electric Bases, common designation E17 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Kerosene
means No. 1 fuel oil with a viscosity meeting the specifications as specified in UL-730-1974, section 36.9 and in tables 2 and 3 of ANSI Standard Z91.1-1972.
Lamp Efficacy (LE)
means the measured lumen output of a lamp in lumens divided by the measured lamp electrical power input in watts expressed in units of lumens per watt (LPW).
Lamps primarily designed to produce radiation in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum
means fluorescent lamps that primarily emit light in the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum where light has a wavelength between 10 and 400 nanometers.
LED downlight retrofit kit
means a product designed and marketed to install into an existing downlight, replacing the existing light source and related electrical components, typically employing an ANSI standard lamp base, either integrated or connected to the downlight retrofit by wire leads, and is a retrofit kit classified or certified to UL 1598C-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). LED downlight retrofit kit does not include integrated lamps or non-integrated lamps.
Left-hand thread lamp
means a lamp with direction of threads on the lamp base oriented in the left-hand direction.
Lifetime
with respect to an incandescent reflector lamp or general service incandescent lamp means the length of operating time between first use and failure of 50 percent of the sample units (as specified in 10 CFR 429.55 and 429.66), determined in accordance with the test procedures described in appendix R to subpart B of this part.
Lifetime of a compact fluorescent lamp
means the length of operating time between first use and failure of 50 percent of the sample units (as specified in § 429.35(a)(1) of this chapter), determined in accordance with the test procedures described in section 3.3 of appendix W to subpart B of this part.
Lifetime of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp
means the length of operating time between first use and failure of 50 percent of the sample units (as required by § 429.56(a)(1) of this chapter), when measured in accordance with the test procedures described in section 4 of appendix BB to subpart B of this part.
Light-emitting diode
or
LED
means a p-n junction solid state device of which the radiated output, either in the infrared region, the visible region, or the ultraviolet region, is a function of the physical construction, material used, and exciting current of the device.
Light fixture
means a complete lighting unit consisting of light source(s) and ballast(s) or driver(s) (when applicable) together with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the light source, and to connect the light source(s) to the power supply.
Low consumption
has the meaning given such a term in ASME A112.19.2-2008. (
see
§ 430.3)
Low pressure steam or hot water boiler
means an electric, gas or oil burning furnace designed to supply low pressure steam or hot water for space heating application. A low pressure steam boiler operates at or below 15 pounds psig steam pressure; a hot water boiler operates at or below 160 psig water pressure and 250 °F. water temperature.
Low-pressure water dispenser
means a terminal fitting that dispenses drinking water at a pressure of 105 kPA (15 psi) or less.
Low-temperature water heater
means an electric instantaneous water heater that is not a circulating water heater and cannot deliver water at a temperature greater than or equal to the set point temperature specified in section 2.5 of appendix E to subpart B of this part when supplied with water at the supply water temperature specified in section 2.3 of appendix E to subpart B of this part and the flow rate specified in section 5.2.2.1 of appendix E to subpart B of this part.
Low-voltage external power supply
means an external power supply with a nameplate output voltage less than 6 volts and nameplate output current greater than or equal to 550 milliamps.
LP-gas
means liquified petroleum gas, and includes propane, butane, and propane/butane mixtures.
Major cooking component
means either a conventional cooking top, a conventional oven or a microwave oven.
Manufacture
means to manufacture, produce, assemble, or import.
Manufacturer
means any person who manufactures a consumer product.
Marine lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed for use on boats and can operate at or between 12 volts and 13.5 volts.
Marine signal service lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed for marine signal service applications.
Medium base compact fluorescent lamp
means an integrally ballasted fluorescent lamp with a medium screw base, a rated input voltage range of 115 to 130 volts and which is designed as a direct replacement for a general service incandescent lamp; however, the term does not include—
(1) Any lamp that is—
(i) Specifically designed to be used for special purpose applications; and
(ii) Unlikely to be used in general purpose applications, such as the applications described in the definition of “General Service Incandescent Lamp” in this section; or
(2) Any lamp not described in the definition of “General Service Incandescent Lamp” in this section that is excluded by the Secretary, by rule, because the lamp is—
(i) Designed for special applications; and
(ii) Unlikely to be used in general purpose applications.
Medium screw base
means an Edison screw base identified with the prefix E-26 in the “American National Standard for Electric Lamp Bases”, ANSI__IEC C81.61-2003, published by the American National Standards Institute.
Microwave oven
means a category of cooking products which is a household cooking appliance consisting of a compartment designed to cook or heat food by means of microwave energy, including microwave ovens with or without thermal elements designed for surface browning of food and convection microwave ovens. This includes any microwave oven(s) component of a combined cooking product.
Mine service lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed for mine service applications.
Miscellaneous gas products
mean decorative hearth products and outdoor heaters.
Miscellaneous refrigeration product
means a consumer refrigeration product other than a refrigerator, refrigerator-freezer, or freezer, which includes coolers and combination cooler refrigeration products.
Mobile home furnace
means a direct vent furnace that is designed for use only in mobile homes.
Modified spectrum
means, with respect to an incandescent lamp, an incandescent lamp that—
(1) Is not a colored incandescent lamp; and
(2) When operated at the rated voltage and wattage of the incandescent lamp—
(A) Has a color point with (x,y) chromaticity coordinates on the C.I.E. 1931 chromaticity diagram, figure 2, page 3
of IESNA LM-16 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3) that lies below the black-body locus; and
(B) Has a color point with (x,y) chromaticity coordinates on the C.I.E. 1931 chromaticity diagram, figure 2, page 3 of IESNA LM-16 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3) that lies at least 4 MacAdam steps, as referenced in IESNA LM-16, distant from the color point of a clear lamp with the same filament and bulb shape, operated at the same rated voltage and wattage.
Natural gas
means natural gas as defined by the Federal Power Commission.
Non-integrated lamp
means a lamp that is not an integrated lamp.
Off mode
means the condition in which an energy using product—
(1) Is connected to a main power source; and
(2) Is not providing any stand-by or active mode function.
Oil
means heating oil grade No. 2 as defined in American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D396-71.
Oil-fired circulating water heater
means a circulating water heater with a nominal input of 105,000 Btu/h or less.
Oil-fired instantaneous water heater
means a water heater that uses oil as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 210,000 Btu/h or less, and contains no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.
Oil-fired pool heater
means a pool heater that uses oil as its primary energy source.
Oil-fired storage water heater
means a water heater that uses oil as the main energy source, has a nameplate input rating of 105,000 Btu/h or less, and contains more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input.
Organic light-emitting diode
or O
LED
means a thin-film light-emitting device that typically consists of a series of organic layers between 2 electrical contacts (electrodes).
Other clothes washer
means a class of clothes washer which is not an automatic or semi-automatic clothes washer.
Other cooking products
means any category of cooking products other than conventional cooking tops, conventional ovens, and microwave ovens.
Other fluorescent lamp
means low pressure mercury electric-discharge sources in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light and include circline lamps and include double-ended lamps with the following characteristics: Lengths from one to eight feet; designed for cold temperature applications; designed for use in reprographic equipment; designed to produce radiation in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum; impact-resistant; reflectorized or aperture; or a CRI of 87 or greater.
Outdoor heater
means a gas-fired appliance designed for use in outdoor spaces only, and which is designed to provide heat proximate to the unit.
Packaged terminal air conditioner
means a wall sleeve and a separate unencased combination of heating and cooling assemblies specified by the builder and intended for mounting through the wall. It includes a prime source of refrigeration, separable outdoor louvers, forced ventilation, and heating availability energy.
Packaged terminal heat pump
means a packaged terminal air conditioner that utilizes reverse cycle refrigeration as its prime heat source and should have supplementary heating availability by builder's choice of energy.
PAR incandescent reflector lamp
means a reflector lamp formed by the sealing together during the lamp-making process of a pressed glass parabolic section and a pressed lens section as shown in Figure 1 (PAR) of ANSI C78.79-2020, (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). The pressed lens section may be either plain or configured.
Person
includes any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, trust, joint venture or joint stock company, the government, and any agency of the United States or any State or political subdivision thereof.
Pin base lamp
means a lamp that uses a base type designated as a single pin base or multiple pin base system.
Pin-based
means (1) the base of a fluorescent lamp, that is not integrally ballasted and that has a plug-in lamp base, including multi-tube, multibend,
spiral, and circline types, or (2) a socket that holds such a lamp.
Plant light lamp
means a lamp that is designed to promote plant growth by emitting its highest radiant power peaks in the regions of the electromagnetic spectrum that promote photosynthesis: Blue (440 nm to 490 nm) and/or red (620 to 740 nm), and is designed and marketed for plant growing applications.
Pool heater
means an appliance designed for heating nonpotable water contained at atmospheric pressure, including heating water in swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and similar applications.
Portable air conditioner
means a portable encased assembly, other than a “packaged terminal air conditioner,” “room air conditioner,” or “dehumidifier,” that delivers cooled, conditioned air to an enclosed space, and is powered by single-phase electric current. It includes a source of refrigeration and may include additional means for air circulation and heating.
Portable dehumidifier
means a dehumidifier that, in accordance with any manufacturer instructions available to a consumer, operates within the dehumidified space without the attachment of additional ducting, although means may be provided for optional duct attachment.
Portable electric heater
means an electric heater which is intended to stand unsupported, and can be moved from place to place within a structure. It is connected to electric supply by means of a cord and plug, and transfers heat by radiation and/or convention (either natural or forced).
Portable electric spa
means a factory-built electric spa or hot tub, supplied with equipment for heating and circulating water at the time of sale or sold separately for subsequent attachment.
Portable indoor conventional cooking top
means a conventional cooking top designed—
(1) For indoor use; and
(2) To be moved from place to place.
Pot filler
means a terminal fitting that can accommodate only a single supply water inlet, with an articulated arm or the equivalent that allows the product to reach to fill vessels when in use and allows the product to be retracted when not in use.
Primary electric heater
means an electric heater that is the principal source of heat for a structure and includes baseboard electric heaters, ceiling electric heaters, floor electric heaters, and wall electric heaters.
Private labeler
means an owner of a brand or trademark on the label of a consumer product which bears a private label. A consumer product bears a private label if:
(1) Such product (or its container) is labeled with the brand or trademark of a person other than a manufacturer of such product;
(2) The person with whose brand or trademark such product (or container) is labeled has authorized or caused such product to be so labeled; and
(3) The brand or trademark of a manufacturer of such product does not appear on such label.
Propane
means a hydrocarbon whose chemical composition is predominantly C
3
H
8
, whether recovered from natural gas or crude oil.
R incandescent reflector lamp
means a reflector lamp that includes a parabolic or elliptical section below the major diameter as shown in Figure 1 (R) of ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
R20 incandescent reflector lamp
means an R incandescent reflector lamp that has a face diameter of approximately 2.5 inches, as shown in Figure C78.21-254 of ANSI C78.21-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
R20 short lamp
means a lamp that is an R20 incandescent reflector lamp that has a rated wattage of 100 watts; has a maximum overall length of 3 and 5/8, or 3.625, inches; and is designed, labeled, and marketed specifically for pool and spa applications.
Rated voltage
with respect to incandescent lamps means:
(1) The design voltage if the design voltage is 115 V, 130 V or between 115V and 130 V:
(2) 115 V if the design voltage is less than 115 V and greater than or equal to 100 V and the lamp can operate at 115 V; and
(3) 130 V if the design voltage is greater than 130 V and less than or
equal to 150 V and the lamp can operate at 130 V.
Rated wattage
means:
(1) With respect to fluorescent lamps and general service fluorescent lamps:
(i) If the lamp is listed in ANSI C78.81 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3) or ANSI C78.901 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3), the rated wattage of a lamp determined by the lamp designation of Clause 11.1 of ANSI C78.81 or ANSI C78.901;
(ii) If the lamp is a residential straight-shaped lamp, and not listed in ANSI C78.81 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3), the wattage of a lamp when operated on a reference ballast for which the lamp is designed; or
(iii) If the lamp is neither listed in one of the ANSI standards referenced in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition, nor a residential straight-shaped lamp, a represented value of electrical power for a basic model, determined according to 10 CFR 429.27, and derived from the measured initial input power of a lamp tested according to appendix R to subpart B of this part.
(2) With respect to general service incandescent lamps, a represented value of electrical power for a basic model, determined according to 10 CFR 429.27, and derived from the measured initial input power of a lamp tested according to appendix R to subpart B of this part.
(3) With respect to incandescent reflector lamps, a represented value of electrical power for a basic model, determined according to 10 CFR 429.55, and derived from the measured initial input power of a lamp tested according to appendix R to subpart B of this part.
Reflector lamp
means a lamp that has an R, PAR, BPAR, BR, ER, MR, or similar bulb shape as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and is used to provide directional light.
Reflectorized or aperture lamp
means a fluorescent lamp that contains an inner reflective coating on the bulb to direct light.
Refrigerant-desiccant dehumidifier
means a whole-home dehumidifier that removes moisture from the process air by means of a desiccant material in addition to a refrigeration system.
Refrigerator
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only and is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter. A refrigerator may include a compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C), but does not provide a separate low temperature compartment capable of maintaining compartment temperatures below8 °F (−13.3 °C) as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2). However, the term does not include:
(1) Any product that does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly;
(2) A cooler; or
(3) Any miscellaneous refrigeration product that must comply with an applicable miscellaneous refrigeration product energy conservation standard.
Refrigerator-freezer
means a cabinet, used with one or more doors, that has a source of refrigeration that requires single-phase, alternating current electric energy input only and consists of two or more compartments where at least one of the compartments is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C) as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2) of this chapter, and at least one other compartment is capable of maintaining compartment temperatures of 8 °F (−13.3 °C) and may be adjusted by the user to a temperature of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below as determined according to § 429.14(d)(2). However, the term does not include:
(1) Any product that does not include a compressor and condenser unit as an integral part of the cabinet assembly; or
(2) Any miscellaneous refrigeration product that must comply with an applicable miscellaneous refrigeration product energy conservation standard.
Replacement ballast
means a ballast that—
(1) Is designed for use to replace an existing fluorescent lamp ballast in a previously installed luminaire;
(2) Is marked “FOR REPLACEMENT USE ONLY”;
(3) Is shipped by the manufacturer in packages containing not more than 10 fluorescent lamp ballasts; and
(4) Has output leads that when fully extended are a total length that is less than the length of the lamp with which the ballast is intended to be operated.
Residential straight-shaped lamp
means a low pressure mercury electric-discharge source in which a fluorescing coating transforms some of the ultraviolet energy generated by the mercury discharge into light, including a straight-shaped fluorescent lamp with medium bi-pin bases of nominal overall length of 48 inches and is either designed exclusively for residential applications; or designed primarily and marketed exclusively for residential applications.
(1) A lamp is designed exclusively for residential applications if it will not function for more than 100 hours with a commercial high-power-factor ballast.
(2) A lamp is designed primarily and marketed exclusively for residential applications if it:
(i) Is permanently and clearly marked as being for residential use only;
(ii) Has a life of 6,000 hours or less when used with a commercial high-power-factor ballast;
(iii) Is not labeled or represented as a replacement for a fluorescent lamp that is a covered product; and
(iv) Is marketed and distributed in a manner designed to minimize use of the lamp with commercial high-power-factor ballasts.
(3) A manufacturer may market and distribute a lamp in a manner designed to minimize use of the lamp with commercial high-power-factor ballasts by:
(i) Packaging and labeling the lamp in a manner that clearly indicates the lamp is for residential use only and includes appropriate instructions concerning proper and improper use; if the lamp is included in a catalog or price list that also includes commercial/industrial lamps, listing the lamp in a separate residential section accompanied by notes about proper use on the same page; and providing as part of any express warranty accompanying the lamp that improper use voids such warranty; or
(ii) Using other comparably effective measures to minimize use with commercial high-power-factor ballasts.
Room air conditioner
means a window-mounted or through-the-wall-mounted encased assembly, other than a “packaged terminal air conditioner,” that delivers cooled, conditioned air to an enclosed space, and is powered by single-phase electric current. It includes a source of refrigeration and may include additional means for ventilating and heating.
Rough or vibration service incandescent reflector lamp
means a reflector lamp: in which a C-11 (5 support), C-17 (8 support), or C-22 (16 support) filament is mounted (the number of support excludes lead wires); in which the filament configuration is as shown in Chapter 6 of the 1993
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America Lighting Handbook,
8th Edition (see 10 CFR 430.22); and that is designated and marketed specifically for rough or vibration service applications.
Rough service lamp
means a lamp that—
(1) Has a minimum of 5 supports with filament configurations that are C-7A, C-11, C-17, and C-22 as listed in Figure 6-12 of the IESNA Lighting Handbook (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3), or similar configurations where lead wires are not counted as supports; and
(2) Is designated and marketed specifically for ‘rough service’ applications, with
(i) The designation appearing on the lamp packaging; and
(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being for rough service.
S-video
means a video display interface that transmits analog video over two channels: luma and chroma as defined by IEC 60933-5 Ed. 1.0 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
Safety shower showerhead
means a showerhead designed to meet the requirements of ISEA Z358.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of Energy.
Security or life safety alarm or surveillance system
means:
(1) Equipment designed and marketed to perform any of the following functions (on a continuous basis):
(i) Monitor, detect, record, or provide notification of intrusion or access to real property or physical assets or notification of threats to life safety.
(ii) Deter or control access to real property or physical assets, or prevent the unauthorized removal of physical assets.
(iii) Monitor, detect, record, or provide notification of fire, gas, smoke, flooding, or other physical threats to real property, physical assets, or life safety.
(2) This term does not include any product with a principal function other than life safety, security, or surveillance that:
(i) Is designed and marketed with a built-in alarm or theft-deterrent feature; or
(ii) Does not operate necessarily and continuously in active mode.
Semi-automatic clothes washer
means a class of clothes washer that is the same as an automatic clothes washer except that user intervention is required to regulate the water temperature by adjusting the external water faucet valves.
Shatter-resistant lamp, shatter-proof lamp,
or
shatter-protected lamp
means a lamp that—
(1) Has a coating or equivalent technology that is compliant with NSF/ANSI 51 (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3) and is designed to contain the glass if the glass envelope of the lamp is broken; and
(2) Is designated and marketed for the intended application, with
(i) The designation on the lamp packaging; and
(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being shatter-resistant, shatter-proof, or shatter-protected.
Showcase lamp
means a lamp that has a T shape as specified in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), is designed and marketed as a showcase lamp, and has a maximum rated wattage of 75 watts.
Showerhead
means a component or set of components distributed in commerce for attachment to a single supply fitting, for spraying water onto a bather, typically from an overhead position, excluding safety shower showerheads.
Sign service lamp
means a vacuum type or gas-filled lamp that has sufficiently low bulb temperature to permit exposed outdoor use on high-speed flashing circuits, is designed and marketed as a sign service lamp, and has a maximum rated wattage of 15 watts.
Silver bowl lamp
means a lamp that has an opaque reflective coating applied directly to part of the bulb surface that reflects light toward the lamp base and that is designed and marketed as a silver bowl lamp.
Single-duct portable air conditioner
means a portable air conditioner that draws all of the condenser inlet air from the conditioned space without the means of a duct, and discharges the condenser outlet air outside the conditioned space through a single duct attached to an adjustable window bracket.
Siphonic action
means the movement of water through a flushing fixture by creating a siphon to remove waste material.
Siphonic bowl
means a water closet bowl that has an integral flushing rim, a trap at the front or rear, and a floor or wall outlet, and operates with a siphonic action (with or without a jet).
Small-duct high-velocity (SDHV) electric furnace
means an electric furnace that:
(1) Is designed for, and produces, at least 1.2 inches of external static pressure when operated at the certified air volume rate of 220-350 CFM per rated ton of cooling in the highest default cooling airflow-control setting; and
(2) When applied in the field, uses high velocity room outlets generally greater than 1,000 fpm that have less than 6.0 square inches of free area.
Small-duct high-velocity (SDHV) modular blower
means a modular blower that:
(1) Is designed for, and produces, at least 1.2 inches of external static pressure when operated at the certified air volume rate of 220-350 CFM per rated ton of cooling in the highest default cooling airflow-controls setting; and
(2) When applied in the field, uses high velocity room outlets generally greater than 1,000 fpm that have less than 6.0 square inches of free area.
Space constrained product
means a central air conditioner or heat pump:
(1) That has rated cooling capacities no greater than 30,000 BTU/hr;
(2) That has an outdoor or indoor unit having at least two overall exterior dimensions or an overall displacement that:
(i) Is substantially smaller than those of other units that are:
(A) Currently usually installed in site-built single family homes; and
(B) Of a similar cooling, and, if a heat pump, heating capacity; and
(ii) If increased, would certainly result in a considerable increase in the usual cost of installation or would certainly result in a significant loss in the utility of the product to the consumer; and
(3) Of a product type that was available for purchase in the United States as of December 1, 2000.
Specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballast
means a mercury vapor lamp ballast that—
(1) Is designed and marketed for operation of mercury vapor lamps used in quality inspection, industrial processing, or scientific use, including fluorescent microscopy and ultraviolet curing; and
(2) In the case of a specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballast, the label of which—
(i) Provides that the specialty application mercury vapor lamp ballast is ‘For specialty applications only, not for general illumination’; and
(ii) Specifies the specific applications for which the ballast is designed.
Specialty MR lamp
means a lamp that has an MR shape as defined in ANSI C78.79-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), a diameter of less than or equal to 2.25 inches, a lifetime of less than or equal to 300 hours, and that is designed and marketed for a specialty application.
Standby mode
means the condition in which an energy-using product—
(1) Is connected to a main power source; and
(2) Offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions:
(i) To facilitate the activation or deactivation of other functions (including active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer; or
(ii) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions.
State
means a State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
State regulation
means a law or regulation of a State or political subdivision thereof.
Supplementary electric heater
means an electric heater that provides heat to a space in addition to that which is supplied by a primary electric heater and includes portable electric heaters.
Surface unit
means either a heating unit mounted in a cooking top, or a heating source and its associated heated area of the cooking top, on which vessels are placed for the cooking or heating of food.
Tabletop water heater
means a water heater in a rectangular box enclosure designed to slide into a kitchen countertop space with typical dimensions of 36 inches high, 25 inches deep, and 24 inches wide, and with a certified first-hour rating that results in either the very small draw pattern or the low draw pattern, as specified in Table I in section 5.4.1 of appendix E to subpart B of this part.
Television set or TV
means a product designed to produce dynamic video, contains an internal TV tuner encased within the product housing, and that is capable of receiving dynamic visual content from wired or wireless sources including but not limited to:
(1) Broadcast and similar services for terrestrial, cable, satellite, and/or broadband transmission of analog and/or digital signals; and/or
(2) Display-specific data connections, such as HDMI, Component video, S-video, Composite video; and/or
(3) Media storage devices such as a USB flash drive, memory card, or a DVD; and/or
(4) Network connections, usually using Internet Protocol, typically carried over Ethernet or Wi-Fi.
Through-the-wall central air conditioner
means a central air conditioner that is designed to be installed totally or partially within a fixed-size opening in an exterior wall, and:
(1) Is not weatherized;
(2) Is clearly and permanently marked for installation only through an exterior wall;
(3) Has a rated cooling capacity no greater than 30,000 Btu/hr;
(4) Exchanges all of its outdoor air across a single surface of the equipment cabinet; and
(5) Has a combined outdoor air exchange area of less than 800 square inches (split systems) or less than 1,210 square inches (single packaged systems) as measured on the surface described in paragraph (4) of this definition.
Through-the-wall central air conditioning heat pump
means a heat pump that is designed to be installed totally or partially within a fixed-size opening in an exterior wall, and:
(1) Is not weatherized;
(2) Is clearly and permanently marked for installation only through an exterior wall;
(3) Has a rated cooling capacity no greater than 30,000 Btu/hr;
(4) Exchanges all of its outdoor air across a single surface of the equipment cabinet; and
(5) Has a combined outdoor air exchange area of less than 800 square inches (split systems) or less than 1,210 square inches (single packaged systems) as measured on the surface described in paragraph (4) of this definition.
Torchiere
means a portable electric lamp with a reflector bowl that directs light upward to give indirect illumination.
Traffic signal lamp
means a lamp that is designed and marketed for traffic signal applications and has a lifetime of 8,000 hours or greater.
Trough-type urinal
means a urinal designed for simultaneous use by two or more people.
Unvented gas heater
means a class of unvented home heating equipment which is a self-contained, free-standing, nonrecessed gas-burning appliance that furnishes heated air by gravity or fan circulation.
Unvented home heating equipment or unvented heater
means a class of home heating equipment, not including furnaces, designed to furnish heated air to a space proximate to such heater, directly from the heater, without inlet duct connections and without exhaust venting, and includes: Electric heater, unvented gas heater, and unvented oil heater.
Unvented oil heater
means a class of unvented home heating equipment which is a self-contained, free-standing, nonrecessed oil-burning appliance that furnishes heated air by gravity or fan circulation.
Urinal
means a plumbing fixture which receives only liquid body waste and, on demand, conveys the waste through a trap seal into a gravity drainage system, except such term does not include fixtures designed for installations in prisons.
Vented floor furnace
means a self-contained vented heater suspended from the floor of the space being heated, taking air for combustion from outside this space. The vented floor furnace supplies heated air circulated by gravity or by a fan directly into the space to be heated through openings in the casing.
Vented home heating equipment or vented heater
means a class of home heating equipment, not including furnaces, designed to furnish heated air to a space proximate to such heater, directly from the heater, without inlet duct connections (except that boots not to exceed 10 inches beyond the casing may be permitted), and with exhaust venting, and includes: Vented wall furnace, vented floor furnace, and vented room heater.
Vented room heater
means a self-contained, free standing, nonrecessed, vented heater for furnishing heated air to the space in which it is installed. The vented room heater supplies heated air circulated by gravity or by a fan directly into the space to be heated through openings in the casing.
Vented wall furnace
means a self-contained vented heater complete with grilles or the equivalent, designed for incorporation in, or permanent attachment to, a wall of a residence and furnishing heated air circulated by gravity or by a fan directly into the space to be heated through openings in the casing.
Vibration service lamp
means a lamp that—
(1) Has filament configurations that are C-5, C-7A, or C-9, as listed in Figure 6-12 of the IESNA Lighting Handbook (incorporated by reference;
see
§ 430.3) or similar configurations;
(2) Has a maximum wattage of 60 watts;
(3) Is sold at retail in packages of 2 lamps or less; and
(4) Is designated and marketed specifically for vibration service or vibration-resistant applications, with—
(i) The designation appearing on the lamp packaging; and
(ii) Marketing materials that identify the lamp as being vibration service only.
Voltage range
means a band of operating voltages as marked on an incandescent lamp, indicating that the lamp is designed to operate at any voltage within the band.
Wall electric heater
means an electric heater (excluding baseboard electric heaters) which is intended to be recessed in or surface mounted on walls, which transfers heat by radiation and/or convection (either natural or forced) and which includes forced convectors, natural convectors, radiant heaters, high wall or valance heaters.
Water closet
means a plumbing fixture that has a water-containing receptor which receives liquid and solid body waste, and upon actuation, conveys the waste through an exposed integral trap seal into a gravity drainage system, except such term does not include fixtures designed for installation in prisons.
Water heater
means a product which utilizes oil, gas, or electricity to heat potable water for use outside the heater upon demand, including—
(1) Storage type units which heat and store water at a thermostatically controlled temperature, including gas storage water heaters with an input of 75,000 Btu per hour or less, oil storage water heaters with an input of 105,000 Btu per hour or less, and electric storage water heaters with an input of 12 kilowatts or less;
(2) Instantaneous type units which heat water but contain no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input, including gas instantaneous water heaters with an input of 200,000 Btu per hour or less, oil instantaneous water heaters with an input of 210,000 Btu per hour or less, and electric instantaneous water heaters with an input of 12 kilowatts or less; and
(3) Heat pump type units, with a maximum current rating of 24 amperes at a voltage no greater than 250 volts, which are products designed to transfer thermal energy from one temperature level to a higher temperature level for the purpose of heating water, including all ancillary equipment such as fans, storage tanks, pumps, or controls necessary for the device to perform its function.
Water use
means the quantity of water flowing through a showerhead, faucet, water closet, or urinal at point of use, determined in accordance with test procedures under appendices S and T of subpart B of this part.
Weatherized warm air furnace or boiler
means a furnace or boiler designed for installation outdoors, approved for resistance to wind, rain, and snow, and supplied with its own venting system.
Whole-home dehumidifier
means a dehumidifier that, in accordance with any manufacturer instructions available to a consumer, operates with ducting to deliver return process air to its inlet and to supply dehumidified process air from its outlet to one or more locations in the dehumidified space.
[42 FR 27898, June 1, 1977]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 430.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 430.3
Materials incorporated by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) must publish a document in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Department of Energy (DOE) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact DOE at: The U.S. Department
of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Building Technologies Office, EE-5B, 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20585-0121, (202) 586-9127,
Buildings@ee.doe.gov, www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/appliance-and-equipment-standards-program.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the sources in the following paragraphs of this section.
(b) Air Movement and Control Association International, Inc. (AMCA), 30 West University Drive, Arlington Heights, IL 60004, (847) 394-0150, or by going to
https://www.amca.org/store/item.aspx?ItemId=81.
(1) ANSI/AMCA 210-99,
Laboratory Methods of Testing Fans for Aerodynamic Performance Rating,
ANSI-approved December 2, 1999; IBR approved for appendices CC and CC1 to subpart B. (Co-published as ANSI/ASHRAE 51-1999.)
(2) ANSI/ASHRAE 51-07/ANSI/AMCA 210-07 (“ANSI/AMCA 210”), Laboratory Methods of Testing Fans for Certified Aerodynamic Performance Rating, AMCA approved July 28, 2006; IBR approved for appendix X1 to subpart B.
(3) ANSI/AMCA Standard 208-18, (“AMCA 208-18”), Calculation of the Fan Energy Index, ANSI approved January 24, 2018, IBR approved for appendix U to this subpart.
(4) ANSI/AMCA 210-07, ANSI/ASHRAE 51-07 (“AMCA 210-2007”), Laboratory Methods of Testing Fans for Certified Aerodynamic Performance Rating, ANSI approved August 17, 2007, Section 8—Report and Results of Test, Section 8.2—Performance graphical representation of test results, IBR approved for appendices M and M1 to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Figure 2A—Static Pressure Tap, and
(ii) Figure 12—Outlet Chamber Setup—Multiple Nozzles in Chamber.
(5) ANSI/AMCA Standard 230-15 (“AMCA 230-15”),
Laboratory Methods of Testing Air Circulating Fans for Rating and Certification,
ANSI-approved October 16, 2015; IBR approved for appendix U of subpart B.
(6) AMCA 230-15 Technical Errata 2021-05-05 (“AMCA 260-15 TE),
Technical Errata Sheet for ANSI/AMCA Standard 230-15: Density Corrections,
dated May 5, 2021; IBR approved for appendix U of subpart B.
(c)
AHRI.
Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute, 2111 Wilson Blvd, Suite 500, Arlington, VA 22201, 703-524-8800, or go to
https://www.ahrinet.org.
(1) ANSI/AHRI 210/240-2008 with Addenda 1 and 2 (”AHRI 210/240-2008”), 2008 Standard for Performance Rating of Unitary Air-Conditioning
Air-Source Heat Pump Equipment, ANSI approved October 27, 2011 (Addendum 1 dated June 2011 and Addendum 2 dated March 2012), IBR approved for appendices M and M1 to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 6—Rating Requirements, Section 6.1—Standard Ratings, 6.1.3—Standard Rating Tests, 6.1.3.2—Electrical Conditions;
(ii) Section 6—Rating Requirements, Section 6.1—Standard Ratings, 6.1.3—Standard Rating Tests, 6.1.3.4—Outdoor-Coil Airflow Rate;
(iii) Section 6—Rating Requirements, Section 6.1—Standard Ratings, 6.1.3—Standard Rating Tests, 6.1.3.5—Requirements for Separated Assemblies;
(iv) Figure D1—Tunnel Air Enthalpy Test Method Arrangement;
(v) Figure D2—Loop Air Enthalpy Test Method Arrangement; and
(vi) Figure D4—Room Air Enthalpy Test Method Arrangement.
(2) AHRI Standard 1160-2009 (“AHRI 1160”), Performance Rating of Heat Pump Pool Heaters, 2009, IBR approved for appendix P to subpart B.
(3) ANSI/AHRI 1230-2010 with Addendum 2 (“AHRI 1230-2010”), 2010 Standard for Performance Rating of Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) Multi-Split Air-Conditioning and Heat Pump Equipment (including Addendum 1 dated March 2011), ANSI approved August 2, 2010 (Addendum 2 dated June 2014), IBR approved for appendices M and M1 to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 3—Definitions (except 3.8, 3.9, 3.13, 3.14, 3.15, 3.16, 3.23, 3.24, 3.26, 3.27, 3.28, 3.29, 3.30, and 3.31);
(ii) Section 5—Test Requirements, Section 5.1 (untitled), 5.1.3-5.1.4;
(iii) Section 6—Rating Requirements, Section 6.1—Standard Ratings, 6.1.5—Airflow Requirements for Systems with Capacities
65,000 Btu/h [19,000 W];
(iv) Section 6—Rating Requirements, Section 6.1—Standard Ratings, 6.1.6—Outdoor-Coil Airflow Rate (Applies to all Air-to-Air Systems);
(v) Section 6—Rating Requirements, Section 6.2—Conditions for Standard Rating Test for Air-cooled Systems
65,000 Btu/h [19,000W] (except Table 8); and
(vi) Table 4—Refrigerant Line Length Correction Factors.
(d)
AATCC.
American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, (919) 549-3526, or go to
www.aatcc.org.
(1) AATCC Test Method 79-2010, Absorbency of Textiles, Revised 2010, IBR approved for Appendix J3 to Subpart B.
(2) AATCC Test Method 118-2007, Oil Repellency: Hydrocarbon Resistance Test, Revised 2007, IBR approved for Appendix J3 to Subpart B.
(3) AATCC Test Method 135-2010, Dimensional Changes of Fabrics after Home Laundering, Revised 2010, IBR approved for Appendix J3 to Subpart B.
(e)
ANSI.
American National Standards Institute, 25 W. 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036, 212-642-4900, or go to
https://www.ansi.org.
(1) ANSI C78.3-1991 (“ANSI C78.3”), American National Standard for Fluorescent Lamps-Instant-start and Cold-Cathode Types-Dimensional and Electrical Characteristics, approved July 15, 1991; IBR approved for § 430.32.
(2) ANSI C78.20-2003, Revision of ANSI C78.20-1995 (“ANSI C78.20”), American National Standard for electric lamps—A, G, PS, and Similar Shapes with E26 Medium Screw Bases, approved October 30, 2003; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(3) ANSI C78.21-1989, American National Standard for Electric Lamps—PAR and R Shapes, approved March 3, 1989, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(4) ANSI C78.21-2011 (R2016) (“ANSI C78.21-2016”),
American National Standard for Electric Lamps—PAR and R Shapes,
ANSI-approved August 23, 2016; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(5) ANSI C78.79-2014 (R2020) (“ANSI C78.79-2020”),
American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Nomenclature for Envelope Shapes Intended for Use with Electric Lamps,
ANSI-approved January 17, 2020; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(6) ANSI__ANSLG C78.81-2010, (“ANSI C78.81-2010”), American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Double-Capped Fluorescent Lamps— Dimensional and Electrical Characteristics, approved January 14, 2010, IBR approved for §§ 430.2 and 430.32 and appendix R to subpart B.
(7) ANSI C78.81-2016, American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Double-Capped Fluorescent Lamps—Dimensional and Electrical Characteristics, approved June 29, 2016, IBR approved for appendices Q and R to subpart B.
(8) ANSI C78.375-1997, Revision of ANSI C78.375-1991 (“ANSI C78.375”), American National Standard for Fluorescent Lamps—Guide for Electrical Measurements, first edition, approved September 25, 1997; IBR approved for appendix R to subpart B.
(9) ANSI C78.375A-2014 (R2020) (“ANSI C78.375A-2020”)
American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Fluorescent Lamps—Guide for Electrical Measures,
ANSI-approved January 17, 2020; IBR approved for appendix R to subpart B.
(10) ANSI__IEC C78.901-2005, (“ANSI C78.901-2005”), American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Single-Based Fluorescent Lamps—Dimensional and Electrical Characteristics, approved March 23, 2005; IBR approved for § 430.2 and appendix R to subpart B.
(11) ANSI C78.901-2014, American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Single-Based Fluorescent Lamps—Dimensional and Electrical Characteristics, ANSI approved July 2, 2014; IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B.
(12) ANSI/NEMA C78.901-2016 (“ANSI C78.901-2016”), American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Single-Based Fluorescent Lamps—Dimensional and Electrical Characteristics, ANSI approved August 23, 2016, IBR approved for appendices Q and R to subpart B.
(13) ANSI C79.1-1994, American National Standard for Nomenclature for Glass Bulbs—Intended for Use with Electric Lamps, approved March 24, 1994, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(14) ANSI C79.1-2002, American National Standard for Electric Lamps—Nomenclature for Glass Bulbs Intended for Use with Electric Lamps, approved September 16, 2002, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(15) ANSI__ANSLG__ C81.61-2006, Revision of ANSI C81.61-2005, (“ANSI C81.61”), American National Standard for electrical lamp bases—Specifications for Bases (Caps) for Electric Lamps, approved August 25, 2006, IBR approved for §§ 430.2; 430.32.
(16) ANSI C82.1-2004 (R2008, R2015), (“ANSI C82.1”), American National Standard for Lamp Ballasts—Line Frequency Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts, approved November 20, 2015; IBR approved for appendix Q to subpart B.
(17) ANSI C82.2-2002 (R2007, R2016), (“ANSI C82.2”), American National Standard for Lamp Ballasts—Method of Measurement of Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts, approved July 12, 2016, IBR approved for appendix Q to subpart B.
(18) ANSI C82.3-2016, (“ANSI C82.3”), American National Standard for Reference Ballasts for Fluorescent Lamps, approved April 8, 2016; IBR approved for appendices Q and R to subpart B.
(19) ANSI/NEMA C82.11-2017, (“ANSI C82.11”), American National Standard for Lamp Ballasts—High-Frequency Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts, approved January 23, 2017; IBR approved for appendix Q to subpart B.
(20) ANSI C82.13-2002 (“ANSI C82.13”), American National Standard for Lamp Ballasts—Definitions for Fluorescent Lamps and Ballasts, approved July 23, 2002; IBR approved for appendix Q to subpart B.
(21) ANSI C82.77-2002, (“ANSI C82.77”) Harmonic Emission Limits—Related Power Quality Requirements for Lighting Equipment, approved January 17, 2002; IBR approved for appendix Q to subpart B.
(22) ANSI/NEMA WD 6-2016,
Wiring Devices—Dimensional Specifications,
ANSI approved February 11, 2016, IBR approved for appendices Y and Y1 to subpart B; as follows:
(i) Figure 1-15—Plug and Receptacle; and
(ii) Figure 5-15—Plug and Receptacle.
(23) ANSI Z21.56-2006, section 2.10 (“ANSI Z21.56”), Standard for Gas-Fired Pool Heaters, approved December 13, 2005, IBR approved for appendix P to subpart B.
(24) ANSI Z21.50-2007 (CSA 2.22-2007), (“ANSI Z21.50”), Vented Gas Fireplaces, Fifth Edition, Approved February 22, 2007, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(25) [Reserved]
(26) ANSI Z21.88-2009 (CSA 2.33-2009), (“ANSI Z21.88”), Vented Gas Fireplace Heaters, Fifth Edition, Approved March 26, 2009, IBR approved for § 430.2.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# ):
The standards referenced in paragraphs (e)(4), (5), (7), (9), (12), (16), (17), (18), (19), and (21) of this section were all published by National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) and are also available from National Electrical Manufacturers Association, 1300 North 17th Street, Suite 900, Rosslyn, Virginia 22209,
https://www.nema.org/Standards/Pages/default.aspx.
(f)
AS/NZS.
Australian/New Zealand Standard, GPO Box 476, Sydney NSW 2001, (02) 9237-6000 or (12) 0065-4646, or go to
www.standards.org.au/
Standards New Zealand, Level 10 Radio New Zealand House 144 The Terrace Wellington 6001 (Private Bag 2439 Wellington 6020), (04) 498-5990 or (04) 498-5991, or go to
www.standards.co.nz.
(1) AS/NZS 4474.1:2007, Performance of Household Electrical Appliances—Refrigerating Appliances; Part 1: Energy Consumption and Performance, Second edition, published August 15, 2007, IBR approved for Appendix A to Subpart B.
(2) [Reserved]
(g)
ASHRAE.
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., 180 Technology Parkway NW, Peachtree Corners, GA 30092; (800) 527-4723 or (404) 636-8400;
www.ashrae.org.
(1) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 16-2016 (“ANSI/ASHRAE 16”), Method of Testing for Rating Room Air Conditioners, Packaged Terminal Air Conditioners, and Packaged Terminal Heat Pumps for Cooling and Heating Capacity, ANSI approved November 1, 2016, IBR approved for appendix F to subpart B.
(2) ANSI/ASHRAE 23.1-2010, (“ASHRAE 23.1-2010”), Methods of Testing for Rating the Performance of Positive Displacement Refrigerant Compressors and Condensing Units
that Operate at Subcritical Temperatures of the Refrigerant, ANSI approved January 28, 2010, IBR approved for appendices M and M1 to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 5—Requirements;
(ii) Section 6—Instruments;
(iii) Section 7—Methods of Testing; and
(iv) Section 8—Compressor Testing.
(3) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 37-2009 (“ASHRAE 37-2009”),
Methods of Testing for Rating Electrically Driven Unitary Air-Conditioning and Heat Pump Equipment,
ANSI-approved June 25, 2009; IBR approved for appendices CC and CC1 to subpart B.
(4) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 37-2009, (“ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009”), Methods of Testing for Rating Electrically Driven Unitary Air-Conditioning and Heat Pump Equipment, ANSI approved June 25, 2009, IBR approved for appendices M and M1 to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 5—Instruments, Section 5.1—Temperature Measuring Instruments: 5.1.1;
(ii) Section 5—Instruments, Section 5.2—Refrigerant, Liquid, and Barometric Pressure Measuring Instruments;
(iii) Section 5—Instruments, Section 5.5—Volatile Refrigerant Flow Measurement;
(iv) Section 6—Airflow and Air Differential Pressure Measurement Apparatus, Section 6.1—Enthalpy Apparatus (Excluding Figure 3): 6.1.1-6.1.2 and 6.1.4;
(v) Section 6—Airflow and Air Differential Pressure Measurement Apparatus, Section 6.2—Nozzle Airflow Measuring Apparatus (Excluding Figure 5);
(vi) Section 6—Airflow and Air Differential Pressure Measurement Apparatus, Section 6.3—Nozzles (Excluding Figure 6);
(vii) Section 6—Airflow and Air Differential Pressure Measurement Apparatus, Section 6.4—External Static Pressure Measurements;
(viii) Section 6—Airflow and Air Differential Pressure Measurement Apparatus, Section 6.5—Recommended Practices for Static Pressure Measurements;
(ix) Section 7—Methods of Testing and Calculation, Section 7.3—Indoor and Outdoor Air Enthalpy Methods (Excluding Table 1);
(x) Section 7—Methods of Testing and Calculation, Section 7.4—Compressor Calibration Method;
(xi) Section 7—Methods of Testing and Calculation, Section 7.5—Refrigerant Enthalpy Method;
(xii) Section 7—Methods of Testing and Calculation, Section 7.7—Airflow Rate Measurement, Section 7.7.2—Calculations—Nozzle Airflow Measuring Apparatus (Excluding Figure 10), 7.7.2.1-7.7.2.2;
(xiii) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.1—Test Room Requirements: 8.1.2-8.1.3;
(xiv) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.2—Equipment Installation;
(xv) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.6—Additional Requirements for the Outdoor Air Enthalpy Method, Section 8.6.2;
(xvii) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.6—Additional Requirements for the Outdoor Air Enthalpy Method, Table 2a—Test Tolerances (SI Units), and
(xviii) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.6—Additional Requirements for the Outdoor Air Enthalpy Method, Table 2b—Test Tolerances (I-P Units);
(xix) Section 9—Data to be Recorded, Section 9.2—Test Tolerances; and
(xx) Section 9—Data to be Recorded, Table 3—Data to be Recorded.
(5) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 37-2009 (RA 2019) (“ASHRAE 37-2009 (RA 2019)”),
Methods of Testing for Rating Electrically Driven Unitary Air-Conditioning and Heat Pump Equipment,
ASHRAE-approved June 21, 2019; IBR approved for appendix AA to subpart B.
(6) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 37-2009 Errata Sheet (“ASHRAE 37-2009 Errata Sheet”),
Errata Sheet for ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 37-2009—Methods of Testing for Rating Electrically Driven Unitary Air-Conditioning and Heat Pump Equipment,
ASHRAE-approved March 27, 2019; IBR approved for appendix AA to subpart B.
(7) ASHRAE 41.1-1986 (Reaffirmed 2006) (“ASHRAE 41.1-1986”),
Standard Method for Temperature Measurement,
approved February 18, 1987; IBR approved for appendices AA, CC, and CC1 to subpart B.
(8) ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013 (“ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1”), Standard Method for
Temperature Measurement, ANSI approved January 30, 2013; IBR approved for appendices F and X1 to subpart B.
(9) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.1-2013, (“ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013”), Standard Method for Temperature Measurement, ANSI approved January 30, 2013, IBR approved for appendix M to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4—Classifications;
(ii) Section 5—Requirements, Section 5.3—Airstream Temperature Measurements;
(iii) Section 6—Instruments; and
(iv) Section 7—Temperature Test Methods (Informative).
(10) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.1-2020 (“ASHRAE 41.1-2020”),
Standard Methods for Temperature Measurement,
ANSI-approved June 30, 2020; IBR approved for appendix E to subpart B.
(11) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.2-1987 (RA 92), (“ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992)”), Standard Methods for Laboratory Airflow Measurement, ANSI reaffirmed April 20, 1992, IBR approved for appendix F to subpart B.
(12) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.2-1987 (RA 1992), (“ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992)”), Standard Methods for Laboratory Airflow Measurement, ANSI reaffirmed April 20, 1992, Section 5—Section of Airflow-Measuring Equipment and Systems, IBR approved for appendix M to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 5.2—Test Ducts,, Section 5.2.2—Mixers, 5.2.2.1—Performance of Mixers (excluding Figures 11 and 12 and Table 1); and
(ii) Figure 14—Outlet Chamber Setup for Multiple Nozzles in Chamber.
(13) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.3-2014, (“ASHRAE 41.3-2014”), Standard Methods for Pressure Measurement, ANSI approved July 3, 2014, IBR approved for appendix F to subpart B.
(14) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.6-1994 (RA 2006) (“ASHRAE 41.6-1994”),
Standard Method for Measurement of Moist Air Properties,
ANSI-reaffirmed January 27, 2006; IBR approved for appendices CC and CC1 to subpart B.
(15) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.6-2014, (“ASHRAE 41.6-2014”), Standard Method for Humidity Measurement, ANSI approved July 3, 2014, IBR approved for appendices E, F, and EE to subpart B.
(16) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.6-2014, (“ASHRAE 41.6-2014”), Standard Method for Humidity Measurement, ANSI approved July 3, 2014, IBR approved for appendix M to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4—Classifications;
(ii) Section 5—Requirements;
(iii) Section 6—Instruments and Calibration; and
(iv) Section 7—Humidity Measurement Methods.
(17) ANSI/ASHRAE 41.9-2011, (“ASHRAE 41.9-2011”), Standard Methods for Volatile-Refrigerant Mass Flow Measurements Using Calorimeters, ANSI approved February 3, 2011, IBR approved for appendix M to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 5—Requirements;
(ii) Section 6—Instruments;
(iii) Section 7—Secondary Refrigerant Calorimeter Method;
(iv) Section 8—Secondary Fluid Calorimeter Method;
(v) Section 9—Primary Refrigerant Calorimeter Method; and
(vi) Section 11—Lubrication Circulation Measurements.
(18) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 41.11-2014, (“ASHRAE 41.11-2014”), Standard Methods for Power Measurement, ANSI approved July 3, 2014, IBR approved for appendix F to subpart B.
(19) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 103-1993, (“ASHRAE 103-1993”), Methods of Testing for Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiency of Residential Central Furnaces and Boilers, (with Errata of October 24, 1996), except for sections 7.1, 7.2.2.2, 7.2.2.5, 7.2.3.1, 7.8, 8.2.1.3, 8.3.3.1, 8.4.1.1, 8.4.1.1.2, 8.4.1.2, 8.4.2.1.4, 8.4.2.1.6, 8.6.1.1, 8.7.2, 8.8.3, 9.1.2.2.1, 9.1.2.2.2, 9.5.1.1, 9.5.1.2.1, 9.5.1.2.2, 9.5.2.1, 9.7.1, 9.7.4, 9.7.6, 9.10, 11.5.11.1, 11.5.11.2 and appendices B and C, approved October 4, 1993, IBR approved for § 430.23 and appendix N to subpart B.
(20) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 103-2017 (“ASHRAE 103-2017”), Method of Testing for Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiency of Residential Central Furnaces and Boilers, ANSI-approved July 3, 2017; IBR approved for § 430.23 and appendices O, AA, and EE to subpart B.
(21) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 116-2010, (“ASHRAE 116-2010”), Methods of Testing for Rating Seasonal Efficiency of Unitary Air Conditioners and Heat
Pumps, ANSI approved February 24, 2010, Section 7—Methods of Test, Section 7.4—Air Enthalpy Method—Indoor Side (Primary Method), Section 7.4.3—Measurements, Section 7.4.3.4—Temperature, Section 7.4.3.4.5, IBR approved for appendices M and M1 to subpart B.
(22) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 118.2-2022 (“ASHRAE 118.2-2022”),
Method of Testing for Rating Residential Water Heaters and Residential-Duty Commercial Water Heaters,
ANSI-approved March 1, 2022; IBR approved for appendix E to subpart B.
(23) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 146-2011 (“ASHRAE 146”), Method of Testing and Rating Pool Heaters, ASHRAE approved February 2, 2011, IBR approved for appendix P to subpart B.
(24) 2021 ASHRAE Handbook—Fundamentals Inch-Pound Edition, Chapter 1, “Psychrometrics” (“2021 ASHRAE Handbook”), copyright 2021; IBR approved for appendix AA to subpart B.
(h)
ASME.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, 1-800 843-2763, or go to
www.asme.org.
(1) ASME A112.18.1-2018/CSA B125.1-2018, (“ASME A112.18.1”), Plumbing supply fittings, CSA-published July 2018; IBR approved for appendix S to subpart B.
(2) ASME A112.19.2-2008, (“ASME A112.19.2-2008”), “Ceramic plumbing fixtures,” sections 7.1, 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.1.3, 7.1.4, 7.1.5, 7.4, 8.2, 8.2.1, 8.2.2, 8.2.3, 8.6, Table 5, and Table 6 approved August 2008, including Update No. 1, dated August 2009, and Update No. 2, dated March 2011, IBR approved for § 430.2 and appendix T to subpart B.
(3) ASME A112.19.2-2018/CSA B45.1-18 (“ASME A112.19.2-2018”), “Ceramic plumbing fixtures”, July 2018 (including Errata—October 2018); IBR approved for appendix T to subpart B.
(i)
AHAM.
Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, 1111 19th Street NW, Suite 402, Washington, DC 20036, 202-872-5955, or go to
https:////www.aham.org.
(1) ANSI/AHAM AC-1-2020, (“AHAM AC-1-2020”),
Method for Measuring Performance of Portable Household Electric Room Air Cleaners,
ANSI-approved December 14, 2020, including AHAM Standard Interpretation dated September 19, 2022; IBR approved for appendix FF to subpart B.
(2) AHAM AC-7-2022,
Energy Test Method for Consumer Room Air Cleaners,
copyright 2022; IBR approved for § 430.2 and appendix FF to subpart B.
(3) AHAM DH-1-2022,
Energy Measurement Test Procedure for Dehumidifiers,
copyright 2022; IBR approved for appendix X1 to subpart B.
(4) AHAM DW-1-2020, Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers, copyright 2020; IBR approved for § 430.32; appendices C1 and C2 to subpart B.
(5) AHAM DW-2-2020, Household Electric Dishwashers, copyright 2020; IBR approved for appendices C1 and C2 to subpart B.
(6) ANSI/AHAM HLD-1-2010 (“AHAM HLD-1”), Household Tumble Type Clothes Dryers, ANSI-approved June 11, 2010, IBR approved for appendices D1 and D2 to subpart B of this part.
(7) AHAM HRF-1-2019 (“HRF-1-2019”), Energy and Internal Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products, Copyright © 2019, IBR approved for appendices A and B to subpart B of this part.
(8) ANSI/AHAM PAC-1-2015, (“ANSI/AHAM PAC-1-2015”), Portable Air Conditioners, June 19, 2015, IBR approved for appendix CC to subpart B of this part.
(9) AHAM PAC-1-2022,
Energy Measurement Test Procedure for Portable Air Conditioners,
Copyright 2022; IBR approved for appendix CC1 to subpart B of this part.
(10) AHAM RAC-1-2020 (“AHAM RAC-1”), Energy Measurement Test Procedure for Room Air Conditioners, approved 2020, IBR approved for appendix F to subpart B.
(j)
ASTM.
ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 877-909-2786;
service@astm.org; www.astm.org.
(1) ASTM D2156-09 (Reapproved 2013) (“ASTM D2156R13”),
Standard Test Method for Smoke Density in Flue Gases from Burning Distillate Fuels,
approved October 1, 2013; IBR approved for appendix N to subpart B.
(2) ASTM D2156-09 (Reapproved 2018) (“ASTM D2156 (R2018)”),
Standard Test Method for Smoke Density in Flue Gases
from Burning Distillate Fuels,
approved October 1, 2018; IBR approved for appendices E, O, and EE to subpart B.
(3) ASTM E97-82 (Reapproved 1987) (“ASTM E97-1987”),
Standard Test Method for Directional Reflectance Factor, 45-deg 0-deg, of Opaque Specimens by Broad-Band Filter Reflectometry,
ASTM-approved October 29, 1982; IBR approved for appendix E to subpart B.

# Note 2 to paragraph (j)(3):
ASTM E97-1987 was withdrawn in 1991. It is reasonably available from standards resellers including GlobalSpec's Engineering 360 (
https://standards.globalspec.com/std/3801495/astm-e97-82-1987
) and IHS Markit (
https://global.ihs.com/doc_detail.cfm?document_name=ASTM%20E97
item_s_key=00020483
).
(4) ASTM E741-11 (Reapproved 2017) (“ASTM E741-11(2017)”), Standard Test Method for Determining Air Change in a Single Zone Means of a Tracer Gas Dilution Approved Sept. 1, 2017; IBR approved for appendix FF to subpart B.
(k)
CSA.
CSA Group, 178 Rexdale Blvd., Toronto, ON, Canada M9W 1R3, 1-800-463-6727 or 416-747-4044,
www.csagroup.org.
(1) ANSI Z21.86-2016 • CSA 2.32-2016 (“ANSI Z21.86-2016”), Vented gas-fired space heating appliances, ANSI-approved December 21, 2016; IBR approved for appendix O to subpart B.
(2) CSA C374:11 (R2021), Energy performance of hot tubs and spas, published November 2011, Update No. 1—National Standard of Canada—April 2012; IBR approved for appendix GG to subpart B of this part.
(l)
CEA.
Consumer Electronics Association, Technology
Standards Department, 1919 S. Eads Street, Arlington, VA 22202, 703-907-7600, or go to
www.CE.org.
(1) CEA Standard, CEA-770.3-D,
High Definition TV Analog Component Video Interface,
published February 2008; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(m)
CIE.
Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage (CIE), Central Bureau, Kegelgasse 27, A-1030, Vienna, Austria, 011 + 43 1 714 31 87 0, or go to
https://www.cie.co.at.
(1) CIE 13.3-1995 (“CIE 13.3”), Technical Report: Method of Measuring and Specifying Colour Rendering Properties of Light Sources, 1995, ISBN 3 900 734 57 7; IBR approved for § 430.2 and appendices R and W to subpart B.
(2) CIE 15:2004 (“CIE 15”), Technical Report: Colorimetry, 3rd edition, 2004, ISBN 978 3 901906 33 6; IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B.
(3) CIE 015:2018 (“CIE 15:2018”),
Colorimetry,
4th edition, copyright 2018; IBR approved for the appendix R to subpart B.
(n) CTA. Consumer Technology Association, 1919 S. Eads Street, Arlington, VA 22202; 703-907-7600;
www.cta.tech.
(1) ANSI/CTA-2037-D, Determination of Television Set Power Consumption, September 2022; IBR approved for appendix H to subpart B.
(2) [Reserved]
(o)
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
ENERGY STAR documents published by the Environmental Protection Agency are available online at
https://www.energystar.gov
or by contacting the Energy Star hotline at 1-888-782-7937.
(1) ENERGY STAR Testing Facility Guidance Manual: Building a Testing Facility and Performing the Solid State Test Method for ENERGY STAR Qualified Ceiling Fans, Version 1.1, approved December 9, 2002, IBR approved for appendix U to subpart B.
(2) Energy Star Program Requirements for Single Voltage External Ac-Dc and Ac-Ac Power Supplies, Eligibility Criteria (Version 2.0), effective date for EPS Manufacturers November 1, 2008, IBR approved for subpart C, § 430.32.
(p)
HDMI
®. High-Definition Multimedia Interface Licensing, LLC, 1140 East Arques Avenue, Suite 100, Sunnyvale, CA 94085, 408-616-1542, or go to
www.hdmi.org.
(1) HDMI Specification Informational Version 1.0,
High-Definition Multimedia Interface Specification,
published September 4, 2003; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(q)
IEC.
International Electrotechnical Commission, 3 Rue de Varembe, Case Postale 131, 1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland;
https://webstore.iec.ch/.
(1) IEC Standard 933-5:1992, (“IEC 60933-5 Ed. 1.0”),
Audio, video and audiovisual systems—Interconnections and matching values—Part 5: Y/C connector for video systems—Electrical matching values and description of the connector,
First Edition, 1992-12; IBR approved for
§ 430.2. (Note: IEC 933-5 is also known as IEC 60933-5.)
(2) IEC 60081:1997/AMD6, (“IEC 60081”), Double-capped fluorescent lamps—Performance specifications (Amendment 6, Edition 5.0, August 2017); IBR approved for appendix Q to subpart B.
(3) IEC 60350-2, (“IEC 60350-2”),
Household electric cooking appliances Part 2: Hobs—Methods for measuring performance,
Edition 2.1, 2021-05; IBR approved for appendix I1 to subpart B.
(4) IEC 62040-3:2021 (“IEC 62040-3 Ed. 3.0”)
Uninterruptible power systems (UPS)—Part 3: Method of specifying the performance and test requirements,
Edition 3.0, 2021-04; IBR approved for appendices Y and Y1 to subpart B.
(5) IEC 62301,
Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power,
first edition, June 2005; IBR approved for appendices I, I1 to subpart B.
(6) IEC 62301 (“IEC 62301”),
Household electrical appliances
—
Measurement of standby power,
(Edition 2.0, 2011-01); IBR approved for appendices C1, C2, D1, D2, F, G, I, I1, J, J2, N, O, P, Q, U, X1, Y, Y1, Z, BB, CC, CC1, EE, and FF to subpart B.
(7) IEC 62301, (“IEC 62301-DD”), Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power, (Edition 2.0, 2011-01); Section 5—Measurements, IBR approved for appendix DD to subpart B.
(8) IEC 62301, (“IEC 62301-W”), Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power, (Edition 2.0, 2011-01), Section 5—Measurements, IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B.
(r)
IES.
Illuminating Engineering Society (formerly Illuminating Engineering Society of North America—IESNA), 120 Wall Street, Floor 17, New York, NY 10005-4001, 212-248-5000, or go to
www.ies.org.
(1)
The IESNA Lighting Handbook, Reference
Application,
(“The IESNA Lighting Handbook”), 9th ed., Chapter 6, “Light Sources,” July 2000, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) IES LM-9-09, (“IES LM-9”), IES Approved Method for the Electrical and Photometric Measurement of Fluorescent Lamps, approved January 31, 2009; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(3) IES LM-9-09 (“IES LM-9-09-DD”), IES Approved Method for the Electrical and Photometric Measurement of Fluorescent Lamps, approved January 31, 2009; IBR approved for appendix DD to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4.0—Ambient and Physical Conditions;
(ii) Section 5.0—Electrical Conditions;
(iii) Section 6.0—Lamp Test Procedures; and
(iv) Section 7.0—Photometric Test Procedures: Section 7.5—Integrating Sphere Measurement.
(4) ANSI/IES LM-9-20 (“IES LM-9-20”),
Approved Method: Electrical and Photometric Measurements of Fluorescent Lamps,
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendices R and V to subpart B.
(5) IESNA LM-16-1993 (“IESNA LM-16”), IESNA Practical Guide to Colorimetry of Light Sources, December 1993, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(6) IES LM-20-13, IES Approved Method for Photometry of Reflector Type Lamps, approved February 4, 2013; IBR approved for appendix DD to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4.0—Ambient and Physical Conditions;
(ii) Section 5.0—Electrical and Photometric Test Conditions;
(iii) Section 6.0—Lamp Test Procedures; and
(iv) Section 8.0—Total Flux Measurements by Integrating Sphere Method.
(7) ANSI/IES LM-20-20 (“IES LM-20-20”),
Approved Method: Photometry of Reflector Type Lamps,
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendix R to subpart B.
(8) IES LM-45-15, IES Approved Method for the Electrical and Photometric Measurement of General Service Incandescent Filament Lamps, approved August 8, 2015; IBR approved for appendix DD to subpart B as follows:
(i) Section 4.0—Ambient and Physical Conditions;
(ii) Section 5.0—Electrical Conditions;
(iii) Section 6.0—Lamp Test Procedures; and
(iv) Section 7.0—Photometric Test Procedures: Section 7.1—Total Luminous Flux Measurements with an Integrating Sphere.
(9) IES LM-45-20 (“IES LM-45-20”),
Approved Method: Electrical and Photometric Measurement of General Service
Incandescent Filament Lamps,
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendix R to subpart B.
(10) ANSI/IES LM-49-20 (“IES LM-49-20”),
Approved Method: Life Testing of Incandescent Filament Lamps,
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendix R to subpart B.
(11) IES LM-54-12, IES Guide to Lamp Seasoning, approved October 22, 2012; IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4—Physical/Environmental Test Conditions;
(ii) Section 5—Electrical Test Conditions;
(iii) Section 6—Test Procedure Requirements: Section 6.1—Test Preparation; and
(iv) Section 6—Test Procedure Requirements, Section 6.2—Seasoning Test Procedures: Section 6.2.2.1—Discharge Lamps: Discharge Lamps except T5 fluorescent.
(12) ANSI/IES LM-54-20 (“IES LM-54-20”),
Approved Method: IES Guide to Lamp Seasoning,
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendices R and V to subpart B.
(13) ANSI/IES LM-58-20 (“IES LM-58-20”),
Approved Method: Spectroradiometric Measurement Methods for Light Sources;
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendix R to subpart B.
(14) IES LM-65-14, IES Approved Method for Life Testing of Single-Based Fluorescent Lamps, approved December 30, 2014; IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4.0—Ambient and Physical Conditions;
(ii) Section 5.0—Electrical Conditions; and
(iii) Section 6.0—Lamp Test Procedures
(15) IES LM-66-14, (“IES LM-66”), IES Approved Method for the Electrical and Photometric Measurements of Single-Based Fluorescent Lamps, approved December 30, 2014; IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B, as follows:
(i) Section 4.0—Ambient and Physical Conditions;
(ii) Section 5.0—Power Source Characteristics; and
(iii) Section 6.0—Testing Procedures Requirements.
(16) ANSI/IES LM-75-19 (“IES LM-75-19”), Approved Method: Guide to Goniophotometer Measurements and Types, and Photometric Coordinate Systems, ANSI-approved November 22, 2019; IBR approved for appendix V to subpart B.
(17) IESNA LM-78-07, IESNA Approved Method for Total Luminous Flux Measurement of Lamps Using an Integrating Sphere Photometer, approved January 28, 2007; IBR approved for appendix W to subpart B.
(18) ANSI/IES LM-78-20 (“IES LM-78-20”)
Approved Method: Total Luminous Flux Measurement of Lamps Using an Integrating Sphere Photometer,
ANSI-approved February 7, 2020; IBR approved for appendices R and V to subpart B.
(19) IES LM-79-08, (“IES LM-79-08”), IES Approved Method for the Electrical and Photometric Measurements of Solid-State Lighting Products, approved December 31, 2007; IBR approved for appendix BB to subpart B.
(20) IES LM-79-08 (“IES LM-79-08-DD”), Approved Method: Electrical and Photometric Measurements of Solid-State Lighting Products, approved December 31, 2007; IBR approved for appendix DD to subpart B as follows:
(i) Section 1.0 Introduction: Section 1.3—Nomenclature and Definitions (except section 1.3f);
(ii) Section 2.0—Ambient Conditions;
(iii) Section 3.0—Power Supply Characteristics;
(iv) Section 5.0—Stabilization of SSL Product;
(v) Section 7.0—Electrical Settings;
(vi) Section 8.0—Electrical Instrumentation;
(vii) Section 9.0—Test Methods for Total Luminous Flux measurement: Section 9.1 Integrating sphere with a spectroradiometer (Sphere-spectroradiometer system); and Section 9.2—Integrating sphere with a photometer head (Sphere-photometer system).
(21) ANSI/IES LM-79-19 (“IES LM-79-19”), Approved Method: Optical and Electrical Measurements of Solid-State Lighting Products, ANSI-approved May 14, 2019; IBR approved for appendix V to subpart B.
(22) IES LM-84-14, (“IES LM-84”), Approved Method: Measuring Luminous Flux and Color Maintenance of
LED Lamps, Light Engines, and Luminaires, approved March 31, 2014; IBR approved for appendix BB to subpart B.
(23) ANSI/IES RP-16-10 (“ANSI/IES RP-16”), Nomenclature and Definitions for Illuminating Engineering, approved October 15, 2005; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(24) IES TM-28-14, (“IES TM-28”), Projecting Long-Term Luminous Flux Maintenance of LED Lamps and Luminaires, approved May 20, 2014; IBR approved for appendix BB to subpart B.
(s) International Safety Equipment Association, 1901 North Moore Street, Suite 808, Arlington, Virginia 22209, (703) 525-1695,
www.safetyequipment.org.
(1) ANSI/ISEA Z358.1-2014 (“ISEA Z358.1”), American National Standard for Emergency Eyewash and Shower Equipment, ANSI-approved January 8, 2015, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(t)
U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
Resource Room of the Building Technologies Program, 950 L'Enfant Plaza SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20024, 202-586-2945, (Energy Star materials are also found at
https://www.energystar.gov.
)
(1) ITU-R BT.470-6, Conventional Television Systems, published November 1998; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) International Efficiency Marking Protocol for External Power Supplies, Version 3.0, September 2013, IBR approved for § 430.32.
(u)
NSF International.
NSF International, P.O. Box 130140, 789 North Dixboro Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48113-0140, 1-800-673-6275, or go to
https://www.nsf.org.
(1) NSF/ANSI 51-2007 (“NSF/ANSI 51”), Food equipment materials, revised and adopted April 2007, IBR approved for §§ 430.2 and 430.32.
(2) [Reserved]
(v)
Optical Society of America. Optical Society of America,
2010 Massachusetts Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20036-1012, 202-223-8130, or go to
https://www.opticsinfobase.org;
(1) “Computation of Correlated Color Temperature and Distribution Temperature,” A.R. Robertson, Journal of the Optical Society of America, Volume 58, Number 11, November 1968, pages 1528-1535, IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(w)
PHTA.
Pool
Hot Tub Alliance, 2111 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 500, Alexandria, VA 22314 (
www.phta.org
), (703) 838-0083.
(1) ANSI/APSP/ICC-14 2019, American National Standard for Portable Electric Spa Energy Efficiency, ANSI-approved November 19, 2019; IBR approved for appendix GG to subpart B of this part.
(2) [Reserved]
(x)
SMPTE.
Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers, 3 Barker Ave., 5th Floor, White Plains, NY 10601, 914-761-1100, or go to
https://standards.smpte.org.
(1) SMPTE 170M-2004, (“SMPTE 170M-2004”),
SMPTE Standard for Television—Composite Analog Video Signal—NTSC for Studio Applications,
approved November 30, 2004; IBR approved for § 430.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(y)
UL.
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., 2600 NW. Lake Rd., Camas, WA 98607-8542 (
www.UL.com
)
(1) UL 729 (“UL 729-2016”), Standard for Safety for Oil-Fired Floor Furnaces, Sixth Edition, dated August 29, 2003, including revisions through November 22, 2016; IBR approved for appendix O to subpart B.
(2) UL 730 (“UL 730-2016”), Standard for Safety for Oil-Fired Wall Furnaces, Fifth Edition, dated August 29, 2003, including revisions through November 22, 2016; IBR approved for appendix O to subpart B.
(3) UL 896 (“UL 896-2016”), Standard for Safety for Oil-Burning Stoves, Fifth Edition, dated July 29, 1993; including revisions through November 22, 2016, IBR approved for appendix O to subpart B.
(4) UL 1598C (“UL 1598C-2016”),
Standard for Safety for Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Retrofit Luminaire Conversion Kits,
First edition, dated January 16, 2014 (including revisions through November 17, 2016); IBR approved for § 430.2.
[74 FR 12066, Mar. 23, 2009]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 430.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 430.4
Sources for information and guidance.
(a)
General.
The standards listed in this paragraph are referred to in the DOE test procedures and elsewhere in this part but are not incorporated by reference. These sources are given here for information and guidance.
(b)
IESNA.
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, 120 Wall Street, Floor 17, New York, NY 10005-4001, 212-248-5000, or go to
http://www.iesna.org.
(1)
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America Lighting Handbook,
8th Edition, 1993.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
IEEE.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., 3 Park Avenue, 17th Floor, New York, NY, 10016-5997, 212-419-7900, or go to
http://www.ieee.org.
(1) IEEE 1515-2000, IEEE Recommended Practice for Electronic Power Subsystems: Parameter Definitions, Test Conditions, and Test Methods, March 30, 2000.
(2) IEEE 100, Authoritative Dictionary of IEEE Standards Terms, 7th Edition, January 1, 2006.
(d)
IEC.
International Electrotechnical Commission, available from the American National Standards Institute, 11 W. 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036, 212-642-4936, or go to
http://www.iec.ch.
(1) IEC 62301, Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power, First Edition, June 13, 2005.
(2) IEC 60050, International Electrotechnical Vocabulary.
(e) National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, Standards Services Division, NIST, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 2140, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2140, 301-975-4016, or go to
http://ts.nist.gov/standards/accreditation.
(1) National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program Handbook 150-01, Energy Efficient Lighting Products, Lamps and Luminaires, August 1993.
(2) [Reserved]
[74 FR 12066, Mar. 23, 2009]
§ 430.5
Error correction procedures for energy conservation standards rules.
(a)
Scope and purpose.
The regulations in this section describe an optional procedure through which the Department of Energy may accept and consider submissions regarding possible Errors in its rules under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6291-6317). This section applies to rules establishing or amending energy conservation standards under the Act, except that this section does not apply to direct final rules issued pursuant to section 325(p)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(p)(4)).
(b)
Definitions.
Act
means the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6291-6317).
Error
means an aspect of the regulatory text of a rule that is inconsistent with what the Secretary intended regarding the rule at the time of posting. Examples of possible mistakes that might give rise to Errors include:
(i) A typographical mistake that causes the regulatory text to differ from how the preamble to the rule describes the rule;
(ii) A calculation mistake that causes the numerical value of an energy conservation standard to differ from what technical support documents would justify; or
(iii) A numbering mistake that causes a cross-reference to lead to the wrong text.
Rule
means a rule establishing or amending an energy conservation standard under the Act.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy or an official with delegated authority to perform a function of the Secretary of Energy under this section.
(c)
Posting of rules.
(1) It is within in the sole discretion of the Secretary to make a rule available to the public to review for Errors in the document's regulatory text.
(2) If a rule is made available for review, the Secretary ordinarily will keep the document posted for a period of 45 calendar days, but the Secretary in his or her discretion (while remaining consistent with his or her statutory obligations under EPCA and other
legal obligations when promulgating an energy conservation standard) may shorten or lengthen the time period during which the rule document is posted.
(3) Any rule document posted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall bear the following disclaimer:
Notice:
The text of this rule is subject to correction based on the identification of errors as defined in 10 CFR 430.5 before publication in the
Federal Register.
Readers are requested to notify the United States Department of Energy, by email at [EMAIL ADDRESS PROVIDED IN POSTED NOTICE], of any typographical or other errors, as described in such regulations, by no later than midnight on [DATE SPECIFIED IN THE POSTING OF THE DOCUMENT ON THE DEPARTMENT'S WEBSITE], in order that DOE may make any necessary corrections in the regulatory text submitted to the Office of the Federal Register for publication.
(d)
Request for error-correction review.
(1) A person identifying an Error subject to this section may request that the Secretary review a potential Error. Such a request must ordinarily be submitted within 45 calendar days of the posting of the rule pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The Secretary in his or her discretion may shorten or lengthen the time period during which such requests may be submitted.
(2)(i) A request under this section must identify a potential Error with particularity. The request must specify the regulatory text claimed to be erroneous. The request must also provide text that the requester contends would be a correct substitute. If a requester is unable to identify a correct substitute, the requester may submit a request that states that the requester is unable to determine what text would be correct and explains why the requester is unable to do so. The request must also substantiate the claimed Error by citing evidence from the existing record of the rulemaking, demonstrating that the regulatory text of the rule is inconsistent with what the Secretary intended the text to be.
(ii) A person's disagreement with any policy choices or discretionary decisions that are contained in the rule will not constitute a valid basis for a request under this section. All policy and discretionary decisions with regard to whether to establish or amend any conservation standard and, if so, the appropriate level at which to amend or establish that standard, remain within the sole discretion of the Secretary without regard to the procedures established in this section.
(3) The evidence to substantiate a request (or evidence of the Error itself) must be in the record of the rulemaking at the time of posting the rule, which may include an accompanying preamble. The Secretary will not consider new evidence submitted in connection with an error-correction request.
(4) A request under this section must be filed in electronic format by email to the address that the disclaimer to the rule designates for error-correction requests. Should filing by email not be feasible, the requester should contact the program point of contact designated in the rule order to ascertain an appropriate alternative means of filing an error-correction request.
(5) A request that does not comply with the requirements of this section will not be considered.
(e)
Correction of rules.
The Secretary may respond to a request for correction under paragraph (d) of this section or address an Error discovered on the Secretary's own initiative by submitting to the Office of the Federal Register either a corrected rule or the rule as previously posted.
(f)
Publication in the
Federal Register.
(1) If, after receiving one or more properly filed requests for correction, the Secretary decides not to undertake any corrections, the Secretary will submit the rule for publication to the Office of the Federal Register as it was posted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(2) If the Secretary receives no properly filed requests after posting a rule and identifies no Errors on the Secretary's own initiative, the Secretary will submit the rule, as it was posted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to the Office of the Federal Register for publication. This will occur after the period prescribed pursuant to
paragraph (c)(2) of this section has elapsed.
(3) If the Secretary receives a properly filed request after posting a rule pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and determines that a correction is necessary, or discovers an Error on the Secretary's own initiative, the Secretary will, absent extenuating circumstances, submit a corrected rule for publication in the
Federal Register
within 30 days after the period prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section has elapsed.
(4) Consistent with the Act, compliance with an energy conservation standard will be required upon the specified compliance date as published in the relevant rule in the
Federal Register
.
(5) Consistent with the Administrative Procedure Act, and other applicable law, the Secretary will ordinarily designate an effective date for a rule under this section that is no less than 30 days after the publication of the rule in the
Federal Register
.
(6) When the Secretary submits a rule for publication, the Secretary will make publicly available a written statement indicating how any properly filed requests for correction were handled.
(g)
Alteration of standards.
Until an energy conservation standard has been published in the
Federal Register,
the Secretary may correct such standard, consistent with the Administrative Procedure Act.
(h)
Judicial review.
For determining the prematurity, timeliness, or lateness of a petition for judicial review pursuant to section 336(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6306), a rule is considered “prescribed” on the date when the rule is published in the
Federal Register
.
[81 FR 57757, Aug. 24, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 22924, Apr. 3, 2024

# Subpart B—Test Procedures
§ 430.21
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains test procedures required to be prescribed by DOE pursuant to section 323 of the Act.
§ 430.23
Test procedures for the measurement of energy and water consumption.
When the test procedures of this section call for rounding off of test results, and the results fall equally between two values of the nearest dollar, kilowatt-hour, or other specified nearest value, the result shall be rounded up to the nearest higher value.
(a)
Refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost for models without an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(2) The estimated annual operating cost for models with an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(3) The estimated annual operating cost for any other specified cycle type shall be the product of the following three factors, the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the specified cycle type, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(4) The energy factor, expressed in cubic feet per kilowatt-hour per cycle, shall be:
(i) For models without an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:
(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, divided by—
(B) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place; and
(ii) For models having an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:
(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, divided by—
(B) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place.
(5) The annual energy use, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year and rounded to the nearest kilowatt-hour per year, shall be determined according to appendix A of this subpart.
(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption shall be those measures of energy consumption that the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions which are derived from the application of appendix A of this subpart.
(7) The following principles of interpretation shall be applied to the test procedure. The intent of the energy test procedure is to simulate typical room conditions (72 °F (22.2 °C)) with door openings, by testing at 90 °F (32.2 °C) without door openings. Except for operating characteristics that are affected by ambient temperature (for example, compressor percent run time), the unit, when tested under this test procedure, shall operate in a manner equivalent to the unit's operation while in typical room conditions.
(i) The energy used by the unit shall be calculated when a calculation is provided by the test procedure. Energy consuming components that operate in typical room conditions (including as a result of door openings, or a function of humidity), and that are not excluded by this test procedure, shall operate in an equivalent manner during energy testing under this test procedure, or be accounted for by all calculations as provided for in the test procedure. Examples:
(A) Energy saving features that are designed to operate when there are no door openings for long periods of time shall not be functional during the energy test.
(B) The defrost heater shall neither function nor turn off differently during the energy test than it would when in typical room conditions. Also, the product shall not recover differently during the defrost recovery period than it would in typical room conditions.
(C) Electric heaters that would normally operate at typical room conditions with door openings shall also operate during the energy test.
(D) Energy used during adaptive defrost shall continue to be measured and adjusted per the calculation provided in this test procedure.
(ii) DOE recognizes that there may be situations that the test procedures do not completely address. In such cases, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver in accordance with the relevant provisions of 10 CFR part 430 if:
(A) A product contains energy consuming components that operate differently during the prescribed testing than they would during representative average consumer use; and
(B) Applying the prescribed test to that product would evaluate it in a manner that is unrepresentative of its true energy consumption (thereby providing materially inaccurate comparative data).
(b)
Freezers.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost for freezers without an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the
product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix B of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(2) The estimated annual operating cost for freezers with an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix B of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(3) The estimated annual operating cost for any other specified cycle type for freezers shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the specified cycle type, determined according to appendix B of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(4) The energy factor, expressed in cubic feet per kilowatt-hour per cycle, shall be:
(i) For models without an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:
(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix B of this subpart, divided by—
(B) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix B of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place; and
(ii) For models having an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:
(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix B of this subpart, divided by—
(B) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix B of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place.
(5) The annual energy use, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year and rounded to the nearest kilowatt-hour per year, shall be determined according to appendix B of this subpart.
(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption for freezers shall be those measures the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and are derived from the application of appendix B of this subpart.
(7) The following principles of interpretation shall be applied to the test procedure. The intent of the energy test procedure is to simulate typical room conditions (72 °F (22.2 °C)) with door openings by testing at 90 °F (32.2 °C) without door openings. Except for operating characteristics that are affected by ambient temperature (for example, compressor percent run time), the unit, when tested under this test procedure, shall operate in a manner equivalent to the unit's operation while in typical room conditions.
(i) The energy used by the unit shall be calculated when a calculation is provided by the test procedure. Energy consuming components that operate in typical room conditions (including as a result of door openings, or a function of humidity), and that are not excluded
by this test procedure, shall operate in an equivalent manner during energy testing under this test procedure, or be accounted for by all calculations as provided for in the test procedure. Examples:
(A) Energy saving features that are designed to operate when there are no door openings for long periods of time shall not be functional during the energy test.
(B) The defrost heater shall neither function nor turn off differently during the energy test than it would when in typical room conditions. Also, the product shall not recover differently during the defrost recovery period than it would in typical room conditions.
(C) Electric heaters that would normally operate at typical room conditions with door openings shall also operate during the energy test.
(D) Energy used during adaptive defrost shall continue to be measured and adjusted per the calculation provided for in this test procedure.
(ii) DOE recognizes that there may be situations that the test procedures do not completely address. In such cases, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver in accordance with the relevant provisions of this part if:
(A) A product contains energy consuming components that operate differently during the prescribed testing than they would during representative average consumer use; and
(B) Applying the prescribed test to that product would evaluate it in a manner that is unrepresentative of its true energy consumption (thereby providing materially inaccurate comparative data).
(c)
Dishwashers.
(1) The Estimated Annual Operating Cost (EAOC) for dishwashers must be rounded to the nearest dollar per year and is defined as follows:
(i) When cold water (50 °F) is used,
EAOC = (D
e
× E
TLP
) + (D
e
× N × (M + M
WS
+ M
DO
+ M
CO
+ E
F
−(E
D
/2))).
Where,
D
e
= the representative average unit cost of electrical energy, in dollars per kilowatt-hour, as provided by the Secretary,
E
TLP
= the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
N = the representative average dishwasher use of 215 cycles per year when EAOC is determined pursuant to appendix C1 to this subpart, and 184 cycles per year when EAOC is determined pursuant to appendix C2 to this subpart,
M = the machine energy consumption per cycle, in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
M
WS
= the machine energy consumption per cycle for water softener regeneration, in kilowatt-hours and determined pursuant to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
M
DO
= for water re-use system dishwashers, the machine energy consumption per cycle during a drain out event in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
M
CO
= for water re-use system dishwashers, the machine energy consumption per cycle during a clean out event, in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
E
F
= the fan-only mode energy consumption per cycle, in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable, and
E
D
= the drying energy consumption, in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable.
(ii) When electrically heated water (120 °F or 140 °F) is used,
EAOC = (D
e
× E
TLP
) + (De × N × (M + M
WS
+ M
DO
+ M
CO
+ E
F
−(ED/2))) + (De × N × (W + W
WS
+ W
DO
+ W
CO
)).
Where,
D
e
, E
TLP
, N, M, M
WS
, M
DO
, M
CO
, E
F
, and E
D
, are defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section,
W = the water energy consumption per cycle, in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
W
WS
= the water softener regeneration water energy consumption per cycle in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
W
DO
= The drain out event water energy consumption per cycle in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable, and
W
CO
= The clean out event water energy consumption per cycle in kilowatt-hours and
determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable.
(iii) When gas-heated or oil-heated water is used,
EAOC
g
= (D
e
× E
TLP
) + (D
e
× N × (M + M
WS
+ M
DO
+M
CO
+ EF−(ED/2))) + (D
g
× N × (W
g
+ W
WSg
+ W
DOg
+ W
COg
)).
Where,
D
e
, E
TLP
, N, M, M
WS
, M
DO
, M
CO
, E
F
, and E
D
, are defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section,
D
g
= the representative average unit cost of gas or oil, as appropriate, in dollars per BTU, as provided by the Secretary,
W
g
= the water energy consumption per cycle, in Btus and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable.
W
WSg
= the water softener regeneration energy consumption per cycle in Btu per cycle and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable,
W
DOg
= the drain out water energy consumption per cycle in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable, and
W
COg
= the clean out water energy consumption per cycle in kilowatt-hours and determined according to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable.
(2) The estimated annual energy use, EAEU, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year must be rounded to the nearest kilowatt-hour per year and is defined as follows:
EAEU = (M + M
WS
+ M
DO
+ M
CO
+ E
F
−(E
D
/2) + W + W
WS
+ W
DO
+ W
CO
) × N + E
TLP
Where,
M, M
WS
, M
DO
, M
CO
, E
F
, E
D
, E
TLP
are all defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section and W, W
WS
, W
DO
, W
CO
are defined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(3) The sum of the water consumption, V, the water consumption during water softener regeneration, V
WS
, the water consumption during drain out events for dishwashers equipped with a water re-use system, V
DO
, and the water consumption during clean out events for dishwashers equipped with a water re-use system, V
CO
, expressed in gallons per cycle and defined pursuant to section 5 of appendix C1 or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable, must be rounded to one decimal place.
(4) Other useful measures of energy consumption for dishwashers are those which the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and which are derived from the application of appendix C1 to this subpart or appendix C2 to this subpart, as applicable.
(d)
Clothes dryers.
(1) The estimated annual energy consumption for clothes dryers, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year, shall be the product of the annual representative average number of clothes dryer cycles as specified in appendix D1 or D2 to this subpart, as appropriate, and the per-cycle combined total energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.6 of appendix D1 or section 4.6 of appendix D2 to this subpart, as appropriate.
(2) The estimated annual operating cost for clothes dryers shall be—
(i) For an electric clothes dryer, the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded off to the nearest dollar per year:
(A) The annual representative average number of clothes dryer cycles as specified in appendix D1 or appendix D2 to this subpart, as appropriate;
(B) The per-cycle combined total energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.6 of appendix D1 or section 4.6 of appendix D2 to this subpart, as appropriate; and
(C) The representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary; and
(ii) For a gas clothes dryer, the product of the annual representative average number of clothes dryer cycles as specified in appendix D1 or D2 to this subpart, as appropriate, times the sum of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded off to the nearest dollar per year:
(A) The product of the per-cycle gas dryer electric energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.2 of appendix D1 or section 4.2 of appendix D2 to this
subpart, as appropriate, times the representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary; plus,
(B) The product of the per-cycle gas dryer gas energy consumption, in Btus per cycle, determined according to section 4.3 of appendix D1 or section 4.3 of appendix D2 to this subpart, as appropriate, times the representative average unit cost for natural gas or propane, as appropriate, in dollars per Btu as provided by the Secretary; plus,
(C) The product of the per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.5 of appendix D1 or section 4.5 of appendix D2 to this subpart, as appropriate, times the representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(3) The combined energy factor, expressed in pounds per kilowatt-hour is determined in accordance with section 4.7 of appendix D1 or section 4.7 of appendix D2 to this subpart, as appropriate, the result then being rounded off to the nearest hundredth (0.01).
(4) Other useful measures of energy consumption for clothes dryers shall be those measures of energy consumption for clothes dryers which the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and which are derived from the application of appendix D1 or D2 to this subpart, as appropriate.
(e)
Water heaters.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost is calculated as:
(i) For a gas-fired or oil-fired water heater, the sum of:
(A) The product of the annual gas or oil energy consumption, determined according to section 6.3.11 or 6.4.7 of appendix E to this subpart, times the representative average unit cost of gas or oil, as appropriate, in dollars per Btu as provided by the Secretary; plus
(B) The product of the annual electric energy consumption, determined according to section 6.3.10 or 6.4.6 of appendix E to this subpart, times the representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary. Round the resulting sum to the nearest dollar per year.
(ii) For an electric water heater, the product of the annual energy consumption, determined according to section 6.3.10 or 6.4.6 of appendix E to this subpart, times the representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary. Round the resulting product to the nearest dollar per year.
(2) For an individual unit, the uniform energy factor is rounded to the nearest 0.01 and determined in accordance with section 6.3.8 or section 6.4.4 of appendix E to this subpart.
(f)
Room air conditioners.
(1) Determine cooling capacity, expressed in British thermal units per hour (Btu/h), as follows:
(i) For a single-speed room air conditioner, determine the cooling capacity in accordance with section 4.1.2 of appendix F of this subpart.
(ii) For a variable-speed room air conditioner, determine the cooling capacity in accordance with section 4.1.2 of appendix F of this subpart for test condition 1 in Table 1 of appendix F of this subpart.
(2) Determine electrical power input, expressed in watts (W) as follows:
(i) For a single-speed room air conditioner, determine the electrical power input in accordance with section 4.1.2 of appendix F of this subpart.
(ii) For a variable-speed room air conditioner, determine the electrical power input in accordance with section 4.1.2 of appendix F of this subpart, for test condition 1 in Table 1 of appendix F of this subpart.
(3) Determine the combined energy efficiency ratio (CEER), expressed in British thermal units per watt-hour (Btu/Wh) and as follows:
(i) For a single-speed room air conditioner, determine the CEER in accordance with section 5.2.2 of appendix F of this subpart.
(ii) For a variable-speed room air conditioner, determine the CEER in accordance with section 5.3.11 of appendix F of this subpart.
(4) Determine the estimated annual operating cost for a room air conditioner, expressed in dollars per year, by multiplying the following two factors and rounding as directed:
(i) For single-speed room air conditioners, the sum of AEC
cool
and AEC
ia/om
, determined in accordance with section 5.2.1 and section 5.1, respectively, of appendix F of this subpart. For variable-speed room air conditioners, the sum of AEC
wt
and AEC
ia/om
, determined in accordance with section 5.3.4 and section 5.1, respectively, of appendix F of this subpart; and
(ii) A representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary. Round the resulting product to the nearest dollar per year.
(g)
Unvented home heating equipment.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost for primary electric heaters, shall be the product of:
(i) The average annual electric energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year, determined according to section 3.1 of appendix G of this subpart and
(ii) the representative average unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act, the resulting product then being rounded off to the nearest dollar per year.
(2) The estimated regional annual operating cost for primary electric heaters, shall be the product of: (i) The regional annual electric energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year for primary heaters determined according to section 3.2 of appendix G of this subpart and (ii) the representative average unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act, the resulting product then being rounded off to the nearest dollar per year.
(3) The estimated operating cost per million Btu output shall be—
(i) For primary and supplementary electric heaters and unvented gas and oil heaters without an auxiliary electric system, the product of:
(A) One million; and
(B) The representative unit cost in dollars per Btu for natural gas, propane, or oil, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act as appropriate, or the quotient of the representative unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act, divided by 3,412 Btu per kilowatt hour, the resulting product then being rounded off to the nearest 0.01 dollar per million Btu output; and
(ii) For unvented gas and oil heaters with an auxiliary electric system, the product of: (A) The quotient of one million divided by the rated output in Btu's per hour as determined in 3.4 of appendix G of this subpart; and (B) the sum of: (
1
) The product of the maximum fuel input in Btu's per hour as determined in 2.2. of this appendix times the representative unit cost in dollars per Btu for natural gas, propane, or oil, as appropriate, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act, plus (
2
) the product of the maximum auxiliary electric power in kilowatts as determined in 2.1 of appendix G of this subpart times the representative unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act, the resulting quantity shall be rounded off to the nearest 0.01 dollar per million Btu output.
(4) The rated output for unvented heaters is the rated output as determined according to either sections 3.3 or 3.4 of appendix G of this subpart, as appropriate, with the result being rounded to the nearest 100 Btu per hour.
(5) Other useful measures of energy consumption for unvented home heating equipment shall be those measures of energy consumption for unvented home heating equipment which the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and which are derived from the application of appendix G of this subpart.
(h)
Television sets.
The power consumption of a television set, expressed in watts, including on and standby modes, shall be determined in accordance with sections 3 and 4 of appendix H of this subpart respectively. The annual energy consumption, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year, shall be determined in accordance with section 4 of appendix H of this subpart.
(i)
Cooking products.
(1) Determine the standby power for microwave ovens, excluding any microwave oven component of a combined cooking product, according to section 3.2.3 of appendix I to this subpart. Round standby power to the nearest 0.1 watt.
(2)(i) Determine the integrated annual energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, according to section 4.3.1 of appendix I1 to this subpart. Round the result to the nearest 1 kilowatt-hour (kWh) per year.
(ii) Determine the integrated annual energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, according to section 4.3.2 of appendix I1 to this subpart. Round the result to the nearest 1 kilo-British thermal unit (kBtu) per year.
(3) Determine the total annual gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, according to section 4.1.2.2.1 of appendix I1 to this subpart. Round the result to the nearest 1 kBtu per year.
(4)(i) Determine the total annual electrical energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as the integrated annual energy consumption of the conventional electric cooking top, as determined in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.
(ii) Determine the total annual electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as follows, rounded to the nearest 1 kWh per year:
E
TGE
= E
AGE
+ E
TLP
Where:
E
AGE
is the conventional gas cooking top annual active mode electrical energy consumption as defined in section 4.1.2.2.2 of appendix I1 to this subpart, and E
TLP
is the combined low-power mode energy consumption as defined in section 4.1 of appendix I1 to this subpart.
(5) Determine the estimated annual operating cost corresponding to the energy consumption of a conventional cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as follows, rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(E
TGE
× C
KWH
) + (E
TGG
× C
KBTU
)
Where:
E
TGE
is the total annual electrical energy consumption for any electric energy usage, in kilowatt-hours (kWh) per year, as determined in accordance with paragraph (i)(4) of this section;
C
KWH
is the representative average unit cost for electricity, in dollars per kWh, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act;
E
TGG
is the total annual gas energy consumption, in kBtu per year, as determined in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section; and
C
KBTU
is the representative average unit cost for natural gas or propane, in dollars per kBtu, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act, for conventional gas cooking tops that operate with natural gas or with LP-gas, respectively.
(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption for conventional cooking tops shall be the measures of energy consumption that the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and that are derived from the application of appendix I1 to this subpart.
(j)
Clothes washers.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost for automatic and semi-automatic clothes washers must be rounded off to the nearest dollar per year and is defined as follows:
(i) When using appendix J (see the note at the beginning of appendix J),
(A) When electrically heated water is used,
(N × (ME
T
+ HE
T
+ E
TLP
) × C
KWH
)
Where:
N = the representative average residential clothes washer use of 234 cycles per year according to appendix J,
ME
T
= the total weighted per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.1.6 of appendix J,
HE
T
= the total weighted per-cycle hot water energy consumption using an electrical water heater, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.1.3 of appendix J,
E
TLP
= the per-cycle combined low-power mode energy consumption, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.6.2 of appendix J, and
C
KWH
= the representative average unit cost, in dollars per kilowatt-hour, as provided by the Secretary.
(B) When gas-heated or oil-heated water is used,
(N × (((ME
T
+ E
TLP
) × C
KWH
) + (HE
TG
× C
BTU
)))
Where:
N, ME
T
, E
TLP
, and C
KWH
are defined in paragraph (j)(1)(i)(A) of this section,
HE
TG
= the total per-cycle hot water energy consumption using gas-heated or oil-heated water, in Btu per cycle, determined according to section 4.1.4 of appendix J, and
C
BTU
= the representative average unit cost, in dollars per Btu for oil or gas, as appropriate, as provided by the Secretary.
(ii) When using appendix J2 (see the note at the beginning of appendix J2),
(A) When electrically heated water is used
(N
2
× (E
TE2
+ E
TLP2
) × C
KWH
)
Where:
N
2
= the representative average residential clothes washer use of 295 cycles per year according to appendix J2,
E
TE2
= the total per-cycle energy consumption when electrically heated water is used, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.1.7 of appendix J2,
E
TLP2
= the per-cycle combined low-power mode energy consumption, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.4 of appendix J2, and
C
KWH
= the representative average unit cost, in dollars per kilowatt-hour, as provided by the Secretary
(B) When gas-heated or oil-heated water is used,
(N
2
× (((ME
T2
+ E
TLP2
) × C
KWH
) + (HE
TG2
× C
BTU
)))
Where:
N
2,
E
TLP2
, and C
KWH
are defined in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(A) of this section,
ME
T2
= the total weighted per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to section 4.1.6 of appendix J2,
HE
TG2
= the total per-cycle hot water energy consumption using gas-heated or oil-heated water, in Btu per cycle, determined according to section 4.1.4 of appendix J2, and
C
BTU
= the representative average unit cost, in dollars per Btu for oil or gas, as appropriate, as provided by the Secretary.
(2)(i) The integrated modified energy factor for automatic and semi-automatic clothes washers is determined according to section 4.6 of appendix J2 (when using appendix J2). The result shall be rounded off to the nearest 0.01 cubic foot per kilowatt-hour per cycle.
(ii) The energy efficiency ratio for automatic and semi-automatic clothes washers is determined according to section 4.9 of appendix J (when using appendix J). The result shall be rounded to the nearest 0.01 pound per kilowatt-hour per cycle.
(3) The annual water consumption of a clothes washer must be determined as:
(i) When using appendix J, the product of the representative average-use of 234 cycles per year and the total weighted per-cycle water consumption in gallons per cycle determined according to section 4.2.4 of appendix J.
(ii) When using appendix J2, the product of the representative average-use of 295 cycles per year and the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for all wash cycles, in gallons per cycle, determined according to section 4.2.11 of appendix J2.
(4)(i) The integrated water factor must be determined according to section 4.2.12 of appendix J2, with the result rounded to the nearest 0.1 gallons per cycle per cubic foot.
(ii) The water efficiency ratio for automatic and semi-automatic clothes washers is determined according to section 4.7 of appendix J (when using appendix J). The result shall be rounded to the nearest 0.01 pound per gallon per cycle.
(5) Other useful measures of energy consumption for automatic or semi-automatic clothes washers shall be those measures of energy consumption that the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and that are derived from the application of appendix J or appendix J2, as appropriate.
(k)-(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Central air conditioners and heat pumps.
See the note at the beginning of appendix M and M1 to determine the appropriate test method. Determine all values discussed in this section using a single appendix.
(1) Determine cooling capacity from the steady-state wet-coil test (A or A
2
Test), as described in section 3.2 of appendix M or M1 to this subpart, and rounded off to the nearest
(i) To the nearest 50 Btu/h if cooling capacity is less than 20,000 Btu/h;
(ii) To the nearest 100 Btu/h if cooling capacity is greater than or equal to 20,000 Btu/h but less than 38,000 Btu/h; and
(iii) To the nearest 250 Btu/h if cooling capacity is greater than or equal to 38,000 Btu/h and less than 65,000 Btu/h.
(2) Determine seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) as described in section 4.1 of appendix M to this subpart or seasonal energy efficiency ratio 2 (SEER2) as described in section 4.1 of appendix M1 to this subpart, and round off to the nearest 0.025 Btu/W-h.
(3) Determine energy efficiency ratio (EER) as described in section 4.6 of appendix M or M1 to this subpart, and round off to the nearest 0.025 Btu/W-h. The EER from the A or A
2
test, whichever applies, when tested in accordance with appendix M1 to this subpart, is referred to as EER2.
(4) Determine heating seasonal performance factors (HSPF) as described in section 4.2 of appendix M to this subpart or heating seasonal performance factors 2 (HSPF2) as described in section 4.2 of appendix M1 to this subpart, and round off to the nearest 0.025 Btu/W-h.
(5) Determine average off mode power consumption as described in section 4.3 of appendix M or M1 to this subpart, and round off to the nearest 0.5 W.
(6) Determine all other measures of energy efficiency or consumption or other useful measures of performance using appendix M or M1 of this subpart.
(n)
Furnaces.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost for furnaces is the sum of:
(i) The product of the average annual fuel energy consumption, in Btu's per year for gas or oil furnaces or in kilowatt-hours per year for electric furnaces, determined according to section 10.2.2 or 10.3 of appendix N of this subpart, respectively, (for furnaces, excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) or section 10.2.2 or 10.3 of appendix EE of this subpart, respectively (for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers), and the representative average unit cost in dollars per Btu for gas or oil, or dollars per kilowatt-hour for electric, as appropriate, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act; plus
(ii) The product of the average annual auxiliary electric energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year determined according to section 10.2.3 of appendix N of this subpart (for furnaces, excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) or section 10.2.3 of appendix EE of this subpart (for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) of this subpart, and the representative average unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act.
(iii) Round the resulting sum to the nearest dollar per year.
(2) The annual fuel utilization efficiency (AFUE) for furnaces, expressed in percent, is the ratio of the annual fuel output of useful energy delivered to the heated space to the annual fuel energy input to the furnace.
(i) For gas and oil furnaces, determine AFUE according to section 10.1 of appendix N (for furnaces, excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) or section 10.1 of appendix EE (for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) of this subpart, as applicable.
(ii) For electric furnaces, excluding electric boilers, determine AFUE in accordance with section 11.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 103-1993 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 430.3); for electric boilers, determine AFUE in accordance with section 11.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 103-2017 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 430.3).
(iii) Round the AFUE to one-tenth of a percentage point.
(3) The estimated regional annual operating cost for furnaces is calculated as follows:
(i) When using appendix N of this subpart for furnaces excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers (see the note at the beginning of appendix N of this subpart),
(A) For gas or oil-fueled furnaces,
(
E
FR
×
C
BTU
) + (
E
AER
×
C
KWH
)
Where:
E
FR
= the regional annual fuel energy consumption in Btu per year, determined according to section 10.7.1 of appendix N of this subpart;
C
BTU
= the representative average unit cost in dollars per Btu of gas or oil, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act;
E
AER
= the regional annual auxiliary electrical energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year, determined according to section 10.7.2 of appendix N of this subpart; and
C
KWH
= the representative average unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour of electricity, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act.
(B) For electric furnaces,
(
E
ER
×
C
KWH
)
Where:
E
ER
= the regional annual fuel energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year, determined according to section 10.7.3 of appendix N of this subpart; and
C
KWH
is as defined in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) When using appendix EE of this subpart for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers (see the note at the beginning of appendix EE of this subpart),
(A) For gas or oil-fueled boilers,
(
E
ER
×
C
BTU
) + (
E
AER
×
C
KWH
)
Where:
E
FR
= the regional annual fuel energy consumption in Btu per year, determined according to section 10.5.1 of appendix EE of this subpart;
C
BTU
and C
KWH
are as defined in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(A) of this section; and
E
AER
= the regional annual auxiliary electrical energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year, determined according to section 10.5.2 of appendix EE of this subpart.
(B) For electric boilers,
(
E
ER
×
C
KWH
)
Where:
E
ER
= the regional annual fuel energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year, determined according to section 10.5.3 of appendix EE of this subpart; and
C
KWH
is as defined in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(iii) Round the estimated regional annual operating cost to the nearest dollar per year.
(4) The energy factor for furnaces, expressed in percent, is the ratio of annual fuel output of useful energy delivered to the heated space to the total annual energy input to the furnace determined according to either section 10.6 of appendix N of this subpart (for furnaces, excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) or section 10.4 of appendix EE of this subpart (for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers), as applicable.
(5) The average standby mode and off mode electrical power consumption for furnaces shall be determined according to section 8.10 of appendix N of this subpart (for furnaces, excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) or section 8.9 of appendix EE of this subpart (for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers), as applicable. Round the average standby mode and off mode electrical power consumption to the nearest tenth of a watt.
(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption for furnaces shall be those measures of energy consumption which the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and which are derived from the application of appendix N of this subpart (for furnaces, excluding low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers) or appendix EE of this subpart (for low pressure steam or hot water boilers and electric boilers).
(o)
Vented home heating equipment.
(1) When determining the annual fuel utilization efficiency (AFUE) of vented home heating equipment (see the note at the beginning of appendix O), expressed in percent (%), calculate AFUE in accordance with section 4.1.17 of appendix O of this subpart for vented heaters without either manual controls or thermal stack dampers; in accordance with section 4.2.6 of appendix O of this subpart for vented heaters equipped with manual controls; or in accordance with section 4.3.7 of appendix O of this subpart for vented heaters equipped with thermal stack dampers.
(2) When estimating the annual operating cost for vented home heating equipment, calculate the sum of:
(i) The product of the average annual fuel energy consumption, in Btus per year for natural gas, propane, or oil fueled vented home heating equipment, determined according to section 4.6.2 of appendix O of this subpart, and the representative average unit cost in dollars per Btu for natural gas, propane, or oil, as appropriate, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act; plus
(ii) The product of the average annual auxiliary electric energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year determined according to section 4.6.3 of appendix O of this subpart, and the representative average unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hours as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act. Round the resulting sum to the nearest dollar per year.
(3) When estimating the operating cost per million Btu output for gas or oil vented home heating equipment with an auxiliary electric system, calculate the product of:
(i) The quotient of one million Btu divided by the sum of:
(A) The product of the maximum fuel input in Btus per hour as determined in sections 3.1.1 or 3.1.2 of appendix O of this subpart times the annual fuel utilization efficiency in percent as determined in sections 4.1.17, 4.2.6, or 4.3.7 of this appendix (as appropriate) divided by 100, plus
(B) The product of the maximum electric power in watts as determined in section 3.1.3 of appendix O of this subpart times the quantity 3.412; and
(ii) The sum of:
(A) the product of the maximum fuel input in Btus per hour as determined in sections 3.1.1 or 3.1.2 of this appendix times the representative unit cost in dollars per Btu for natural gas, propane, or oil, as appropriate, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act; plus
(B) the product of the maximum auxiliary electric power in kilowatts as determined in section 3.1.3 of appendix O of this subpart times the representative unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act. Round the resulting quantity to the nearest 0.01 dollar per million Btu output.
(p)
Pool heaters.
(1) Determine the thermal efficiency (E
t
) of a pool heater expressed as a percent (%) in accordance with section 5.1 of appendix P to this subpart.
(2) Determine the integrated thermal efficiency (TE
I
) of a pool heater expressed as a percent (%) in accordance with section 5.4 of appendix P to this subpart.
(3) When estimating the annual operating cost of pool heaters, calculate the sum of:
(i) The product of the average annual fossil fuel energy consumption, in Btus per year, determined according to section 5.2 of appendix P to this subpart, and the representative average unit cost in dollars per Btu for natural gas or oil, as appropriate, as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act; plus
(ii) The product of the average annual electrical energy consumption in kilowatt-hours per year determined according to section 5.3 of appendix P to this subpart and converted to kilowatt-hours using a conversion factor of 3412 Btus = 1 kilowatt-hour, and the representative average unit cost in dollars per kilowatt-hours as provided pursuant to section 323(b)(2) of the Act. Round the resulting sum to the nearest dollar per year.
(q)
Fluorescent lamp ballasts.
(1) Calculate ballast luminous efficiency (BLE) using appendix Q to this subpart.
(2) Calculate power factor using appendix Q to this subpart.
(r)
General service fluorescent lamps, general service incandescent lamps, and incandescent reflector lamps.
Measure initial lumen output, initial input power, initial lamp efficacy, color rendering index (CRI), correlated color temperature (CCT), and time to failure of GSFLs, IRLs, and GSILs, as applicable, in accordance with appendix R to this subpart.
(s)
Faucets.
Measure the water use for lavatory faucets, lavatory replacement aerators, kitchen faucets, and kitchen replacement aerators, in gallons or liters per minute (gpm or L/min), in accordance to section 2.1 of appendix S of this subpart. Measure the water use for metering faucets, in gallons or liters per cycle (gal/cycle or L/cycle), in accordance to section 2.1 of appendix S of this subpart.
(t)
Showerheads.
Measure the water use for showerheads, in gallons or liters per minute (gpm or L/min), in accordance to section 2.2 of appendix S of this subpart.
(u)
Water closets.
Measure the water use for water closets, expressed in gallons or liters per flush (gpf or Lpf), in
accordance with section 3(a) of appendix T to this subpart.
(v)
Urinals.
Measure the water use for urinals, expressed in gallons or liters per flush (gpf or Lpf), in accordance with section 3(b) of appendix T to this subpart.
(w)
Ceiling fans.
Measure the following attributes of a single ceiling fan in accordance with appendix U to this subpart: airflow; power consumption; ceiling fan efficiency, as applicable; ceiling fan energy index (CFEI), as applicable; standby power, as applicable; distance between the ceiling and lowest point of fan blades; blade span; blade edge thickness; and blade revolutions per minute (RPM).
(x)
Ceiling fan light kits.
(1) For each ceiling fan light kit that requires compliance with the January 21, 2020 energy conservation standards:
(i) For a ceiling fan light kit packaged with compact fluorescent lamps, measure lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, rapid cycle stress test, and time to failure in accordance with paragraph (y) of this section for each lamp basic model.
(ii) For a ceiling fan light kit packaged with general service fluorescent lamps, measure lamp efficacy in accordance with paragraph (r) of this section for each lamp basic model.
(iii) For a ceiling fan light kit packaged with incandescent lamps, measure lamp efficacy in accordance with paragraph (r) of this section for each lamp basic model.
(iv) For a ceiling fan light kit packaged with integrated LED lamps, measure lamp efficacy in accordance with paragraph (ee) of this section for each lamp basic model.
(v) For a ceiling fan light kit packaged with other fluorescent lamps (not compact fluorescent lamps or general service fluorescent lamps), packaged with consumer-replaceable SSL (not integrated LED lamps), packaged with non-consumer-replaceable SSL, or packaged with other SSL lamps that have an ANSI standard base (not integrated LED lamps), measure efficacy in accordance with section 3 of appendix V of this subpart for each lamp basic model, consumer-replaceable SSL basic model, or non-consumer-replaceable SSL basic model.
(2) [Reserved]
(y)
Compact fluorescent lamps.
(1) Measure initial lumen output, input power, initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime of a compact fluorescent lamp (as defined in 10 CFR 430.2), color rendering index (CRI), correlated color temperature (CCT), power factor, start time, standby mode energy consumption, and time to failure in accordance with appendix W of this subpart. Express time to failure in hours.
(2) Conduct the rapid cycle stress test in accordance with section 3.3 of appendix W of this subpart.
(z)
Dehumidifiers.
(1) Determine the capacity, expressed in pints/day, according to section 5.2 of appendix X1 to this subpart.
(2) Determine the integrated energy factor, expressed in L/kWh, according to section 5.4 of appendix X1 to this subpart.
(3) Determine the case volume, expressed in cubic feet, for whole-home dehumidifiers in accordance with section 5.7 of appendix X1 of this subpart.
(aa)
Battery Chargers.
(1) For battery chargers subject to compliance with the relevant standard at § 430.32(z) as that standard appeared in the January 1, 2022, edition of 10 CFR parts 200-499:
(i) Measure the maintenance mode power, standby power, off mode power, battery discharge energy, 24-hour energy consumption and measured duration of the charge and maintenance mode test for a battery charger other than uninterruptible power supplies in accordance with appendix Y to this subpart;
(ii) Calculate the unit energy consumption of a battery charger other than uninterruptible power supplies in accordance with appendix Y to this subpart;
(iii) Calculate the average load adjusted efficiency of an uninterruptible power supply in accordance with appendix Y to this subpart.
(2) For a battery charger subject to compliance with any amended relevant standard provided in § 430.32 that is published after September 8, 2022:
(i) Measure active mode energy, maintenance mode power, no-battery mode power, off mode power and battery discharge energy for a battery charger other than uninterruptible power supplies in accordance with appendix Y1 to this subpart.
(ii) Calculate the standby power of a battery charger other than uninterruptible power supplies in accordance with appendix Y1, to this subpart.
(iii) Calculate the average load adjusted efficiency of an uninterruptible power supply in accordance with appendix Y1 to this subpart.
(bb)
External Power Supplies.
The energy consumption of an external power supply, including active-mode efficiency expressed as a percentage and the no-load, off, and standby mode energy consumption levels expressed in watts, shall be measured in accordance with appendix Z of this subpart.
(cc)
Furnace Fans.
The energy consumption of a single unit of a furnace fan basic model expressed in watts per 1000 cubic feet per minute (cfm) to the nearest integer shall be calculated in accordance with Appendix AA of this subpart.
(dd)
Portable air conditioners.
(1) When using appendix CC to this subpart, measure the seasonally adjusted cooling capacity (“SACC”) in British thermal units per hour (Btu/h), and the combined energy efficiency ratio, in British thermal units per watt-hour (Btu/Wh) in accordance with sections 5.2 and 5.4 of appendix CC to this subpart, respectively. When using appendix CC1 to this subpart, measure the SACC in Btu/h, and the combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh in accordance with sections 5.2 and 5.4, respectively, of appendix CC1 to this subpart.
(2) When using appendix CC to this subpart, determine the estimated annual operating cost for portable air conditioners, in dollars per year and rounded to the nearest whole number, by multiplying a representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary by the total annual energy consumption (“AEC”), determined as follows:
(i) For dual-duct single-speed portable air conditioners, the sum of AEC
DD_95
multiplied by 0.2, AEC
DD_83
multiplied by 0.8, and AEC
T
as measured in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix CC to this subpart.
(ii) For single-duct single-speed portable air conditioners, the sum of AEC
SD
and AEC
T
as measured in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix CC to this subpart.
(iii) For dual-duct variable-speed portable air conditioners the overall sum of
(A) The sum of AEC
DD_95_Full
and AEC
ia/om
, multiplied by 0.2, and
(B) The sum of AEC
DD_83_Low
and AEC
ia/om
, multiplied by 0.8, as measured in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix CC to this subpart.
(iv) For single-duct variable-speed portable air conditioners, the overall sum of
(A) The sum of AEC
SD_Full
and AEC
ia/om
, multiplied by 0.2, and
(B) The sum of AEC
SD_Low
and AEC
ia/om
, multiplied by 0.8, as measured in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix CC to this subpart.
(3) When using appendix CC1 to this subpart, determine the estimated annual operating cost for portable air conditioners, in dollars per year and rounded to the nearest whole number, by multiplying a representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary by the total AEC. The total AEC is the sum of AEC
95
, AEC
83
, AEC
oc
, and AEC
ia
, as measured in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix CC1 to this subpart.
(ee)
Integrated light-emitting diode lamp.
(1) The input power of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be measured in accordance with section 3 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(2) The lumen output of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be measured in accordance with section 3 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(3) The lamp efficacy of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be calculated in accordance with section 3 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(4) The correlated color temperature of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be measured in accordance
with section 3 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(5) The color rendering index of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be measured in accordance with section 3 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(6) The power factor of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be measured in accordance with section 3 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(7) The time to failure of an integrated light-emitting diode lamp must be measured in accordance with section 4 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(8) The standby mode power must be measured in accordance with section 5 of appendix BB of this subpart.
(ff)
Coolers and combination cooler refrigeration products.
(1) The estimated annual operating cost for models without an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(2) The estimated annual operating cost for models with an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(3) The estimated annual operating cost for any other specified cycle type shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:
(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;
(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the specified cycle type, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and
(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.
(4) The energy factor, expressed in cubic feet per kilowatt-hour per cycle, shall be:
(i) For models without an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:
(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, divided by—
(B) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place; and
(ii) For models having an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:
(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, divided by—
(B) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place.
(5) The annual energy use, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year and rounded to the nearest kilowatt-hour per year, shall be determined according to appendix A of this subpart.
(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption shall be those measures of energy consumption that the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions which are derived from the application of appendix A of this subpart.
(7) The following principles of interpretation shall be applied to the test procedure. The intent of the energy test procedure is to simulate operation in typical room conditions (72 °F (22.2 °C)) with door openings by testing at 90 °F (32.2 °C) ambient temperature without door openings. Except for operating characteristics that are affected by ambient temperature (for example, compressor percent run time), the unit, when tested under this test procedure, shall operate in a manner equivalent to the unit's operation while in typical room conditions.
(i) The energy used by the unit shall be calculated when a calculation is provided by the test procedure. Energy consuming components that operate in typical room conditions (including as a result of door openings, or a function of humidity), and that are not excluded by this test procedure, shall operate in an equivalent manner during energy testing under this test procedure, or be accounted for by all calculations as provided for in the test procedure. Examples:
(A) Energy saving features that are designed to operate when there are no door openings for long periods of time shall not be functional during the energy test.
(B) The defrost heater shall neither function nor turn off differently during the energy test than it would when in typical room conditions. Also, the product shall not recover differently during the defrost recovery period than it would in typical room conditions.
(C) Electric heaters that would normally operate at typical room conditions with door openings shall also operate during the energy test.
(D) Energy used during adaptive defrost shall continue to be measured and adjusted per the calculation provided for in this test procedure.
(ii) DOE recognizes that there may be situations that the test procedures do not completely address. In such cases, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver in accordance with the relevant provisions of this part if:
(A) A product contains energy consuming components that operate differently during the prescribed testing than they would during representative average consumer use; and
(B) Applying the prescribed test to that product would evaluate it in a manner that is unrepresentative of its true energy consumption (thereby providing materially inaccurate comparative data).
(8) For non-compressor models, “compressor” and “compressor cycles” as used in appendix A of this subpart shall be interpreted to mean “refrigeration system” and “refrigeration system cycles,” respectively.
(gg)
General Service Lamps.
(1) For general service incandescent lamps, use paragraph (r) of this section.
(2) For compact fluorescent lamps, use paragraph (y) of this section.
(3) For integrated LED lamps, use paragraph (ee) of this section.
(4) For other incandescent lamps, measure initial light output, input power, lamp efficacy, power factor, and standby mode power in accordance with appendix DD of this subpart.
(5) For other fluorescent lamps, measure initial light output, input power, lamp efficacy, power factor, and standby mode power in accordance with appendix DD of this subpart.
(6) For OLED and non-integrated LED lamps, measure initial light output, input power, lamp efficacy, power factor, and standby mode power in accordance with appendix DD of this subpart.
(hh)
Air cleaners.
(1) The pollen clean air delivery rate (CADR), smoke CADR, and dust CADR, expressed in cubic feet per minute (cfm), for conventional room air cleaners shall be measured in accordance with section 5 of appendix FF of this subpart.
(2) The PM
2.5
CADR, expressed in cfm, for conventional room air cleaners, shall be measured in accordance with section 5 of appendix FF of this subpart.
(3) The active mode and standby mode power consumption, expressed in watts, shall be measured in accordance with sections 5 and 6, respectively, of appendix FF of this subpart.
(4) The annual energy consumption, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year, and the integrated energy factor, expressed in CADR per watts (CADR/W), for conventional room air cleaners, shall be measured in accordance with
section 7 of appendix FF of this subpart.
(5) The estimated annual operating cost for conventional room air cleaners, expressed in dollars per year, shall be determined by multiplying the following two factors:
(i) The annual energy consumption as calculated in accordance with section 7 of appendix FF of this subpart, and
(ii) A representative average unit cost of electrical energy in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary, the resulting product then being rounded off to the nearest dollar per year.
(ii)
Portable electric spas.
Measure the standby loss in watts and the fill volume in gallons of a portable electric spa in accordance with appendix GG to this subpart.
[42 FR 27898, June 1, 1977]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 430.23, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 430.24
[Reserved]
§ 430.25
Laboratory Accreditation Program.
The testing for general service fluorescent lamps, general service incandescent lamps (with the exception of lifetime testing), general service lamps (with the exception of applicable lifetime testing), incandescent reflector lamps, compact fluorescent lamps, and fluorescent lamp ballasts, and integrated light-emitting diode lamps must be conducted by test laboratories accredited by an Accreditation Body that is a signatory member to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA). A manufacturer's or importer's own laboratory, if accredited, may conduct the applicable testing.
[81 FR 72504, Oct. 20, 2016]
§ 430.27
Petitions for waiver and interim waiver.
(a)
General information.
This section provides a means for seeking waivers of the test procedure requirements of this subpart for basic models that meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In granting a waiver or interim waiver, DOE will not change the energy use or efficiency metric that the manufacturer must use to certify compliance with the applicable energy conservation standard and to make representations about the energy use or efficiency of the covered product. The granting of a waiver or interim waiver by DOE does not exempt such basic models from any other regulatory requirement contained in this part or the certification and compliance requirements of 10 CFR part 429 and specifies an alternative method for testing the basic models addressed in the waiver.
(1) Any interested person may submit a petition to waive for a particular basic model any requirements of § 430.23 or of any appendix to this subpart, upon the grounds that the basic model contains one or more design characteristics which either prevent testing of the basic model according to the prescribed test procedures or cause the prescribed test procedures to evaluate the basic model in a manner so unrepresentative of its true energy and/or water consumption characteristics as to provide materially inaccurate comparative data.
(2) Manufacturers of basic model(s) subject to a waiver or interim waiver are responsible for complying with the other requirements of this subpart and with the requirements of 10 CFR part 429 regardless of the person that originally submitted the petition for waiver and/or interim waiver. The filing of a petition for waiver and/or interim waiver shall not constitute grounds for noncompliance with any requirements of this subpart.
(3) All correspondence regarding waivers and interim waivers must be submitted to DOE either electronically to
AS__Waiver__Requests@ee.doe.gov
(preferred method of transmittal) or by mail to U.S. Department of Energy, Building Technologies Program, Test Procedure Waiver, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Mailstop EE-5B, Washington, DC 20585-0121.
(b)
Petition content and publication.
(1) Each petition for interim waiver and waiver must:
(i) Identify the particular basic model(s) for which a waiver is requested, each brand name under which the identified basic model(s) will be distributed in commerce, the design characteristic(s) constituting the grounds for the petition, and the specific requirements sought to be waived, and must discuss in detail the need for the requested waiver;
(ii) Identify manufacturers of all other basic models distributed in commerce in the United States and known to the petitioner to incorporate design characteristic(s) similar to those found in the basic model that is the subject of the petition;
(iii) Include any alternate test procedures known to the petitioner to evaluate the performance of the product type in a manner representative of the energy and/or water consumption characteristics of the basic model; and
(iv) Be signed by the petitioner or an authorized representative. In accordance with the provisions set forth in 10 CFR 1004.11, any request for confidential treatment of any information contained in a petition or in supporting documentation must be accompanied by a copy of the petition, application or supporting documentation from which the information claimed to be confidential has been deleted. DOE will publish in the
Federal Register
the petition and supporting documents from which confidential information, as determined by DOE, has been deleted in accordance with 10 CFR 1004.11 and will solicit comments, data and information with respect to the determination of the petition.
(2) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each petition for interim waiver must reference the related petition for waiver, demonstrate likely success of the petition for waiver, and address what economic hardship and/or competitive disadvantage is likely to result absent a favorable determination on the petition for interim waiver.
(c)
Notification to other manufacturers.
(1) Each petitioner for interim waiver must, upon publication of a grant of an interim waiver in the
Federal Register,
notify in writing all known manufacturers of domestically marketed basic models of the same product class (as specified in 10 CFR 430.32) and of other product classes known to the petitioner to use the technology or have the characteristic at issue in the waiver. The notice must include a statement that DOE has published the interim waiver and petition for waiver in the
Federal Register
and the date the petition for waiver was published. The notice must also include a statement that DOE will receive and consider timely written comments on the petition for waiver. Within five working days, each petitioner must file with DOE a statement certifying the names and addresses of each person to whom a notice of the petition for waiver has been sent.
(2) If a petitioner does not request an interim waiver and notification has not been provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each petitioner, after filing a petition for waiver with DOE, and after the petition for waiver has been published in the
Federal Register,
must, within five working days of such publication, notify in writing all known manufacturers of domestically marketed units of the same product class (as listed in 10 CFR 430.32) and of other product classes known to the petitioner to use the technology or have the characteristic at issue in the waiver. The notice must include a statement that DOE has published the petition in the
Federal Register
and the date the petition for waiver was published. Within five working days of the publication of the petition in the
Federal Register,
each petitioner must file with DOE a statement certifying the names and addresses of each person to whom a notice of the petition for waiver has been sent.
(d)
Public comment and rebuttal.
(1) Any person submitting written comments to DOE with respect to an interim waiver must also send a copy of the comments to the petitioner by the deadline specified in the notice.
(2) Any person submitting written comments to DOE with respect to a petition for waiver must also send a copy of such comments to the petitioner.
(3) A petitioner may, within 10 working days of the close of the comment period specified in the
Federal Register,
submit a rebuttal statement to
DOE. A petitioner may rebut more than one comment in a single rebuttal statement.
(e)
Provisions specific to interim waivers.
(1) DOE will post a petition for interim waiver on its website within 5 business days of receipt of a complete petition. DOE will make best efforts to review a petition for interim waiver within 90 business days of receipt of a complete petition.
(2) A petition for interim waiver that does not meet the content requirements of paragraph (b) of this section will be considered incomplete. DOE will notify the petitioner of an incomplete petition via email.
(3) DOE will grant an interim waiver from the test procedure requirements if it appears likely that the petition for waiver will be granted and/or if DOE determines that it would be desirable for public policy reasons to grant immediate relief pending a determination on the petition for waiver. Notice of DOE's determination on the petition for interim waiver will be published in the
Federal Register
.
(f)
Provisions specific to waivers
—(1)
Disposition of application.
The petitioner shall be notified in writing as soon as practicable of the disposition of each petition for waiver. DOE shall issue a decision on the petition as soon as is practicable following receipt and review of the Petition for Waiver and other applicable documents, including, but not limited to, comments and rebuttal statements.
(2) Criteria for granting. DOE will grant a waiver from the test procedure requirements if DOE determines either that the basic model(s) for which the waiver was requested contains a design characteristic that prevents testing of the basic model according to the prescribed test procedures, or that the prescribed test procedures evaluate the basic model in a manner so unrepresentative of its true energy or water consumption characteristics as to provide materially inaccurate comparative data. Waivers may be granted subject to conditions, which may include adherence to alternate test procedures specified by DOE. DOE will consult with the Federal Trade Commission prior to granting any waiver, and will promptly publish in the
Federal Register
notice of each waiver granted or denied, and any limiting conditions of each waiver granted.
(g)
Extension to additional basic models.
A petitioner may request that DOE extend the scope of a waiver or an interim waiver to include additional basic models employing the same technology as the basic model(s) set forth in the original petition. The petition for extension must identify the particular basic model(s) for which a waiver extension is requested, each brand name under which the identified basic model(s) will be distributed in commerce, and documentation supporting the claim that the additional basic models employ the same technology as the basic model(s) set forth in the original petition. DOE will publish any such extension in the
Federal Register.
(h)
Duration.
(1) Within one year of issuance of an interim waiver, DOE will either:
(i) Publish in the
Federal Register
a determination on the petition for waiver; or
(ii) Publish in the
Federal Register
a new or amended test procedure that addresses the issues presented in the waiver.
(2) When DOE publishes a decision and order on a petition for waiver in the
Federal Register
pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the interim waiver will terminate upon the data specified in the decision and order, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(3) When DOE amends the test procedure to address the issues presented in a waiver, the waiver or interim waiver will automatically terminate on the date on which use of that test procedure is required to demonstrate compliance.
(4) When DOE publishes a decision and order in the
Federal Register
to modify a waiver pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section, the existing waiver will terminate 180 days after the publication date of the decision and order.
(i)
Compliance certification and representations.
(1) If the interim waiver test procedure methodology is different than the decision and order test procedure methodology, certification reports to DOE required under 10 CFR
429.12 and any representations must be based on either of the two methodologies until 180 days after the publication date of the decision and order. Thereafter, certification reports and any representations must be based on the decision and order test procedure methodology, unless otherwise specified by DOE. Once a manufacturer uses the decision and order test procedure methodology in a certification report or any representation, all subsequent certification reports and any representations must be made using the decision and order test procedure methodology while the waiver is valid.
(2) When DOE publishes a new or amended test procedure, certification reports to DOE required under 10 CFR 429.12 and any representations must be based on the testing methodology of an applicable waiver or interim waiver, or the new or amended test procedure until the date on which use of such test procedure is required to demonstrate compliance, unless otherwise specified by DOE in the test procedure final rule. Thereafter, certification reports and any representations must be based on the test procedure final rule methodology. Once a manufacturer uses the test procedure final rule methodology in a certification report or any representation, all subsequent certification reports and any representations must be made using the test procedure final rule methodology.
(3) If DOE publishes a decision and order modifying an existing waiver, certification reports to DOE required under 10 CFR 429.12 and any representations must be based on either of the two methodologies until 180 days after the publication date of the decision and order modifying the waiver. Thereafter, certification reports and any representations must be based on the modified test procedure methodology unless otherwise specified by DOE. Once a manufacturer uses the modified test procedure methodology in a certification report or any representation, all subsequent certification reports and any representations must be made using the modified test procedure methodology while the modified waiver is valid.
(j)
Petition for waiver required of other manufactures.
Any manufacturer of a basic model employing a technology or characteristic for which a waiver was granted for another basic model and that results in the need for a waiver (as specified by DOE in a published decision and order in the
Federal Register
) must petition for and be granted a waiver for that basic model. Manufacturers may also submit a request for interim waiver pursuant to the requirements of this section.
(k)
Rescission or modification.
(1) DOE may rescind or modify a waiver or interim waiver at any time upon DOE's determination that the factual basis underlying the petition for waiver or interim waiver is incorrect, upon a determination that the results from the alternate test procedure are unrepresentative of the basic model(s)' true energy consumption characteristics, or for other appropriate reason. Waivers and interim waivers are conditioned upon the validity of statements, representations, and documents provided by the requestor; any evidence that the original grant of a waiver or interim waiver was based upon inaccurate information will weigh against continuation of the waiver. DOE's decision will specify the basis for its determination and, in the case of a modification, will also specify the change to the authorized test procedure.
(2) A person may request that DOE rescind or modify a waiver or interim waiver issued to that person if the person discovers an error in the information provided to DOE as part of its petition, determines that the waiver is no longer needed, or for other appropriate reasons. In a request for rescission, the requestor must provide a statement explaining why it is requesting rescission. In a request for modification, the requestor must explain the need for modification to the authorized test procedure and detail the modifications needed and the corresponding impact on measured energy consumption.
(3) DOE will publish a proposed rescission or modification (DOE-initiated or at the request of the original requestor) in the
Federal Register
for public comment. A requestor may, within 10 working days of the close of the comment period specified in the proposed rescission or modification published in the
Federal Register,
submit a rebuttal statement to DOE. A requestor may rebut more than one comment in a single rebuttal statement.
(4) DOE will publish its decision in the
Federal Register.
DOE's determination will be based on relevant information contained in the record and any comments received.
(5) After the effective date of a rescission, any basic model(s) previously subject to a waiver must be tested and certified using the applicable DOE test procedure in 10 CFR part 430.
(l)
Revision of regulation.
As soon as practicable after the granting of any waiver, DOE will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of proposed rulemaking to amend its regulations so as to eliminate any need for the continuation of such waiver. As soon thereafter as practicable, DOE will publish in the
Federal Register
a final rule.
(m) To exhaust administrative remedies, any person aggrieved by an action under this section must file an appeal with the DOE's Office of Hearings and Appeals as provided in 10 CFR part 1003, subpart C.
[79 FR 26599, May 9, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 79820, Dec. 11, 2020; 86 FR 70959, Dec. 14, 2021]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Refrigerators, Refrigerator-Freezers, and Miscellaneous Refrigeration Products

# Note:
Prior to April 11, 2022, any representations of volume and energy use of refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and miscellaneous refrigeration products must be based on the results of testing pursuant to either this appendix or the procedures in appendix A as it appeared at 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix A, in the 10 CFR parts 200 to 499 edition revised as of January 1, 2019. Any representations of volume and energy use must be in accordance with whichever version is selected. On or after April 11, 2022, any representations of volume and energy use must be based on the results of testing pursuant to this appendix.
For refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers, the rounding requirements specified in sections 4 and 5 of this appendix are not required for use until the compliance date of any amendment of energy conservation standards for these products published after October 12, 2021.

# 1. Referenced Materials
DOE incorporated by reference AHAM HRF-1-2019,
Energy and Internal Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products
(“HRF-1-2019”), and AS/NZS 4474.1:2007,
Performance of Household Electrical Appliances—Refrigerating Appliances; Part 1: Energy Consumption and Performance, Second Edition
(“AS/NZS 4474.1:2007”), in their entirety in § 430.3; however, only enumerated provisions of these documents are applicable to this appendix. If there is any conflict between HRF-1-2019 and this appendix or between AS/NZS 4474.1:2007 and this appendix, follow the language of the test procedure in this appendix, disregarding the conflicting industry standard language.
(a) AHAM HRF-1-2019, (“HRF-1-2019”), Energy and Internal Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products:
(i) Section 3—Definitions, as specified in section 3 of this appendix;
(ii) Section 4—Method for Determining the Refrigerated Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products, as specified in section 4.1 of this appendix;
(iii) Section 5—Method for Determining the Energy Consumption of Consumer Refrigeration Products (excluding Table 5-1 and sections 5.5.6.5, 5.8.2.1.2, 5.8.2.1.3, 5.8.2.1.4, 5.8.2.1.5, and 5.8.2.1.6), as specified in section 5 of this appendix; and
(iv) Section 6—Method for Determining the Adjusted Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products, as specified in section 4.2 of this appendix;
(b) AS/NZS 4474.1:2007, (“AS/NZS 4474.1:2007”), Performance of Household Electrical Appliances—Refrigerating Appliances; Part 1: Energy Consumption and Performance, Second Edition:
(i) Appendix M—Method of Interpolation When Two Controls are Adjusted, as specified in sections 5.2(b) and 5.5 of this appendix.
(ii) [Reserved]

# 2. Scope
This appendix provides the test procedure for measuring the annual energy use in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/yr), the total refrigerated volume in cubic feet (ft
3
), and the total adjusted volume in cubic feet (ft
3
) of refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and miscellaneous refrigeration products.

# 3. Definitions
Section 3,
Definitions,
of HRF-1-2019 applies to this test procedure. In case of conflicting terms between HRF-1-2019 and DOE's definitions in this appendix or in § 430.2, DOE's definitions take priority.
Door-in-door
means a set of doors or an outer door and inner drawer for which—
(a) Both doors (or both the door and the drawer) must be opened to provide access to the interior through a single opening;
(b) Gaskets for both doors (or both the door and the drawer) are exposed to external ambient conditions on the outside around the full perimeter of the respective openings; and
(c) The space between the two doors (or between the door and the drawer) achieves temperature levels consistent with the temperature requirements of the interior compartment to which the door-in-door provides access.
Through-the-door ice/water dispenser
means a device incorporated within the cabinet, but outside the boundary of the refrigerated space, that delivers to the user on demand ice and may also deliver water from within the refrigerated space without opening an exterior door. This definition includes dispensers that are capable of dispensing ice and water or ice only.
Transparent door
means an external fresh food compartment door which meets the following criteria:
(a) The area of the transparent portion of the door is at least 40 percent of the area of the door.
(b) The area of the door is at least 50 percent of the sum of the areas of all the external doors providing access to the fresh food compartments and cooler compartments.
(c) For the purposes of this evaluation, the area of a door is determined as the product of the maximum height and maximum width dimensions of the door, not considering potential extension of flaps used to provide a seal to adjacent doors.

# 4. Volume
Determine the refrigerated volume and adjusted volume for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and miscellaneous refrigeration products in accordance with the following sections of HRF-1-2019, respectively:
4.1. Section 4, Method for Determining the Refrigerated Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products; and
4.2. Section 6, Method for Determining the Adjusted Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products.

# 5. Energy Consumption
Determine the annual energy use (“AEU”) in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/yr), for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, and miscellaneous refrigeration products in accordance with section 5,
Method for Determining the Energy Consumption of Consumer Refrigeration Products,
of HRF-1-2019, except as follows.

# 5.1. Test Setup and Test Conditions
(a) In section 5.3.1 of HRF-1-2019, the top of the unit shall be determined by the refrigerated cabinet height, excluding any accessories or protruding components on the top of the unit.
(b) The ambient temperature and vertical ambient temperature gradient requirements specified in section 5.3.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be maintained during both the stabilization period and the test period.
(c) The power supply requirements as specified in section 5.5.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be maintained based on measurement intervals not to exceed one minute.
(d) The ice storage compartment temperature requirement as specified in section 5.5.6.5 in HRF-1-2019 is not required.
(e) For cases in which setup is not clearly defined by this test procedure, manufacturers must submit a petition for a waiver (See section 6 of this appendix).
(f) If the interior arrangements of the unit under test do not conform with those shown in Figures 5-1 or 5-2 of HRF-1-2019, as appropriate, the unit must be tested by relocating the temperature sensors from the locations specified in the figures to avoid interference with hardware or components within the unit, in which case the specific locations used for the temperature sensors shall be noted in the test data records maintained by the manufacturer in accordance with 10 CFR 429.71, and the certification report shall indicate that non-standard sensor locations were used. If any temperature sensor is relocated by any amount from the location prescribed in Figure 5-1 or 5-2 of HRF-1-2019 in order to maintain a minimum 1-inch air space from adjustable shelves or other components that could be relocated by the consumer, except in cases in which the Figures prescribe a temperature sensor location within 1 inch of a shelf or similar feature (
e.g.,
sensor T3 in Figure 5-1), this constitutes a relocation of temperature sensors that must be recorded in the test data and reported in the certification report as described in this paragraph.

# 5.2. Test Conduct
(a) Standard Approach
(i) For the purposes of comparing compartment temperatures with standardized temperatures, as described in section 5.6 of HRF-1-2019, the freezer compartment temperature shall be as specified in section 5.8.1.2.5 of HRF-1-2019, the fresh food compartment temperature shall be as specified in section 5.8.1.2.4 of HRF-1-2019, and the cooler compartment temperature shall be as specified in section 5.8.1.2.6 of HRF-1-2019.
(ii) In place of Table 5-1 in HRF-1-2019, refer to Table 1 of this section.
Table 1—Temperature Settings: General Chart for All Products
First test
Setting
Results
Second test
Setting
Results
Energy
calculation based on:
Mid for all Compartments
All compartments below standard reference temperature
Warmest for all Compartments
All compartments below standard reference temperature
Second Test Only.
One or more compartments above standard reference temperature
First and Second Test.
One or more compartments above standard reference temperature
Coldest for all Compartments
All compartments below standard reference temperature
First and Second Test.
One or more compartments above standard reference temperature
Model may not be certified as compliant with energy conservation standards based on testing of this unit. Confirm that unit meets product definition. If so, see section 6 of this appendix.
(b) Three-Point Interpolation Method (Optional Test for Models with Two Compartments and User-Operable Controls). As specified in section 5.6.3(6) of HRF-1-2019, and as an optional alternative to section 5.2(a) of this appendix, perform three tests such that the set of tests meets the “minimum requirements for interpolation” of AS/NZS 4474.1:2007 appendix M, section M3, paragraphs (a) through (c) and as illustrated in Figure M1. The target temperatures txA and txB defined in section M4(a)(i) of AS/NZ 4474.1:2007 shall be the standardized temperatures defined in section 5.6 of HRF-1-2019.

# 5.3. Test Cycle Energy Calculations
Section 5.8.2,
Energy Consumption,
of HRF-1-2019 applies to this test procedure, except as follows:
(a) In place of section 5.8.2.1.2 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with long-time automatic defrost control using the two-part test period, the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:
ER12OC21.001
Where:
ET = test cycle energy expended in kilowatt-hours per day;
1440 = conversion factor to adjust to a 24-hour average use cycle in minutes per day;
K = dimensionless correction factor of 1.0 for refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers and 0.55 for miscellaneous refrigeration products.
EP1 = energy expended in kilowatt-hours during the first part of the test;
EP2 = energy expended in kilowatt-hours during the second part of the test;
T1 and T2 = length of time in minutes of the first and second test parts, respectively;
CT = defrost timer run time or compressor run time between defrosts in hours required to go through a complete cycle, rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
12 = factor to adjust for a 50-percent run time of the compressor in hours per day.
(b) In place of sections 5.8.2.1.3 and 5.8.2.1.4 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with variable defrost control, the test cycle energy shall be calculated as set forth in section 5.3(a) of this appendix with the following addition:
CT shall be calculated equivalent to:
ER12OC21.002
Where:
CT
L
= the least or shortest compressor run time between defrosts used in the variable defrost control algorithm (greater than or equal to 6 but less than or equal to 12 hours), or the shortest compressor run time between defrosts observed for the test (if it is shorter than the shortest run time used in the control algorithm and is greater than 6 hours), or 6 hours (if the shortest observed run time is less than 6 hours), in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
CT
M
= the maximum compressor run time between defrosts in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour (greater than CT
L
but not more than 96 hours);
For variable defrost models with no values of CT
L
and CT
M
in the algorithm, the default values of 6 and 96 shall be used, respectively.
F = ratio of per day energy consumption in excess of the least energy and the maximum difference in per-day energy consumption and is equal to 0.20.
(c) In place of section 5.8.2.1.5 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For multiple-compressor products with automatic defrost, the two-part test method in section 5.7.2.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be used, and the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:
ER12OC21.003
Where:
ET, 1440, 12, and K are defined in section 5.3(a) of this appendix;
EP1, and T1 are defined in section 5.3(a) of this appendix;
i = a subscript variable that can equal 1, 2, or more that identifies each individual compressor system that has automatic defrost;
D = the total number of compressor systems with automatic defrost;
EP2
i
= energy expended in kilowatt-hours during the second part of the test for compressor system i;
T2
i
= length of time in minutes of the second part of the test for compressor system i;
CT
i
= compressor run time between defrosts of compressor system i, rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour, for long-time automatic defrost control equal to a fixed time in hours, and for variable defrost control equal to:
ER12OC21.004
Where:
CT
L,i
= for compressor system i, the shortest cumulative compressor-on time between defrost heater-on events used in the variable defrost control algorithm (CT
L
for the compressor system with the longest compressor run time between defrosts must be greater than or equal to 6 but less than or equal to 12 hours), in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
CT
M,i
= for compressor system i, the maximum compressor-on time between defrost heater-on events used in the variable defrost control algorithm (greater than CT
L,i
but not more than 96 hours), in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
For defrost cycle types with no values of CT
L
and CT
M
in the algorithm, the default values of 6 and 96 shall be used, respectively.
F = ratio of per day energy consumption in excess of the least energy and the maximum difference in per-day energy consumption and is equal to 0.20.
(d) In place of section 5.8.2.1.6 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with long-time automatic defrost control and variable defrost control with multiple defrost cycle types, the two-part test method in section 5.7.2.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be used, and the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:
ER12OC21.005
Where:
ET, 1440, 12, and K are defined in section 5.3(a) of this appendix;
EP1, and T1 are defined in section 5.3(a) of this appendix;
i = a subscript variable that can equal 1, 2, or more that identifies the distinct defrost cycle types applicable for the product;
D = the total number of defrost cycle types;
EP2
i
= energy expended in kilowatt-hours during the second part of the test for defrost cycle type i;
T2
i
= length of time in minutes of the second part of the test for defrost cycle type i;
CT
i
= defrost timer run time or compressor run time between instances of defrost cycle type i, rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
12 = factor to adjust for a 50-percent run time of the compressor in hours per day.
(i) For long-time automatic defrost control, CTi shall be equal to a fixed time in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour. For cases in which there are more than one fixed CT value for a given defrost cycle type, an average fixed CT value shall be selected for this cycle type.
(ii) For variable defrost control, CTi shall be calculated equivalent to:
ER12OC21.006
Where:
CT
L,i
= the least or shortest compressor run time between instances of the defrost cycle type i in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour (CT
L
for the defrost cycle type with the longest compressor run time between defrosts must be greater than or equal to 6 but less than or equal to 12 hours);
CT
M,i
= the maximum compressor run time between instances of defrost cycle type i in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour (greater than CT
L,i
but not more than 96 hours);
For cases in which there are more than one CT
M
and/or CT
L
value for a given defrost cycle type, an average of the CT
M
and CT
L
values shall be selected for this defrost cycle type. For defrost cycle types with no values of CT
L
and CT
M
in the algorithm, the default values of 6 and 96 shall be used, respectively.
F = ratio of per day energy consumption in excess of the least energy and the maximum difference in per-day energy consumption and is equal to 0.20.

# 5.4.
Icemaker Energy Use
(a) For refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers: To demonstrate compliance with the energy conservation standards at § 430.32(a) applicable to products manufactured on or after September 15, 2014, but before the compliance date of any amended standards published after January 1, 2022, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, equals 0.23 for a product with one or more automatic icemakers and otherwise equals 0 (zero). To demonstrate compliance with any amended standards published after January 1, 2022, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, is as defined in section 5.9.2.1 of HRF-1-2019.
(b) For miscellaneous refrigeration products: To demonstrate compliance with the energy conservation standards at § 430.32(aa) applicable to products manufactured on or after October 28, 2019, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, equals 0.23 for a product with one or more automatic icemakers and otherwise equals 0 (zero).

# 5.5.
Triangulation Method
If the three-point interpolation method of section 5.2(b) of this appendix is used for setting temperature controls, the average per-
cycle energy consumption shall be defined as follows:
E = E
X
+ IET
Where:
E is defined in section 5.9.1.1 of HRF-1-2019;
IET is defined in section 5.4 of this appendix; and
E
X
is defined and calculated as described in appendix M, section M4(a) of AS/NZS 4474.1:2007. The target temperatures t
xA
and t
xB
defined in section M4(a)(i) of AS/NZS 4474.1:2007 shall be the standardized temperatures defined in section 5.6 of HRF-1-2019.

# 6. Test Procedure Waivers
To the extent that the procedures contained in this appendix do not provide a means for determining the energy consumption of a basic model, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver under § 430.27 to establish an acceptable test procedure for each such basic model. Such instances could, for example, include situations where the test setup for a particular basic model is not clearly defined by the provisions of this appendix. For details regarding the criteria and procedures for obtaining a waiver, please refer to § 430.27.
[86 FR 56821, Oct. 12, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 3112, Jan. 17, 2024]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Freezers

# Note:
Prior to April 11, 2022, any representations of volume and energy use of freezers must be based on the results of testing pursuant to either this appendix or the procedures in appendix B as it appeared at 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, appendix B, in the 10 CFR parts 200 to 499 edition revised as of January 1, 2019. Any representations of volume and energy use must be in accordance with whichever version is selected. On or after April 11, 2022, any representations of volume and energy use must be based on the results of testing pursuant to this appendix.
For freezers, the rounding requirements specified in sections 4 and 5 of this appendix are not required for use until the compliance date of any amendment of energy conservation standards for these products published after October 12, 2021.

# 1. Referenced Materials
DOE incorporated by reference HRF-1-2019,
Energy and Internal Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products
(“HRF-1-2019”) in its entirety in § 430.3; however, only enumerated provisions of this document are applicable to this appendix. If there is any conflict between HRF-1-2019 and this appendix, follow the language of the test procedure in this appendix, disregarding the conflicting industry standard language.
(a) AHAM HRF-1-2019, (“HRF-1-2019”), Energy and Internal Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products:
(i) Section 3—Definitions, as specified in section 3 of this appendix;
(ii) Section 4—Method for Determining the Refrigerated Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products, as specified in section 4.1 of this appendix;
(iii) Section 5—Method for Determining the Energy Consumption of Consumer Refrigeration Products (excluding Table 5-1 and sections 5.5.6.5, 5.8.2.1.2, 5.8.2.1.3, 5.8.2.1.4, 5.8.2.1.5, and 5.8.2.1.6), as specified in section 5 of this appendix; and
(iv) Section 6—Method for Determining the Adjusted Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products, as specified in section 4.2 of this appendix.
(b) Reserved.
If there is any conflict between HRF-1—2019 and this appendix, follow the language of the test procedure in this appendix, disregarding the conflicting industry standard language.

# 2. Scope
This appendix provides the test procedure for measuring the annual energy use in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/yr), the total refrigerated volume in cubic feet (ft
3
), and the total adjusted volume in cubic feet (ft
3
) of freezers.

# 3. Definitions
Section 3,
Definitions,
of HRF-1-2019 applies to this test procedure. In case of conflicting terms between HRF-1-2019 and DOE's definitions in this appendix or in § 430.2, DOE's definitions take priority.
Through-the-door ice/water dispenser
means a device incorporated within the cabinet, but outside the boundary of the refrigerated space, that delivers to the user on demand ice and may also deliver water from within the refrigerated space without opening an exterior door. This definition includes dispensers that are capable of dispensing ice and water or ice only.

# 4. Volume
Determine the refrigerated volume and adjusted volume for freezers in accordance with the following sections of HRF-1-2019, respectively:
4.1. Section 4, Method for Determining the Refrigerated Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products; and
4.2. Section 6, Method for Determining the Adjusted Volume of Consumer Refrigeration Products.

# 5. Energy Consumption
Determine the annual energy use (“AEU”) in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/yr), for freezers in accordance with section 5,
Method for Determining the Energy Consumption of Consumer Refrigeration Products,
of HRF-1-2019, except as follows.

# 5.1. Test Setup and Test Conditions
(a) In section 5.3.1 of HRF-1-2019, the top of the unit shall be determined by the refrigerated cabinet height, excluding any accessories or protruding components on the top of the unit.
(b) The ambient temperature and vertical ambient temperature gradient requirements specified in section 5.3.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be maintained during both the stabilization period and the test period.
(c) The power supply requirements as specified in section 5.5.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be maintained based on measurement intervals not to exceed one minute.
(d) The ice storage compartment temperature requirement as specified in section 5.5.6.5 in HRF-1-2019 is not required.
(e) For cases in which setup is not clearly defined by this test procedure, manufacturers must submit a petition for a waiver (See section 6 of this appendix).
(f) If the interior arrangements of the unit under test do not conform with those shown in Figure 5-2 of HRF-1-2019, as appropriate, the unit must be tested by relocating the temperature sensors from the locations specified in the figures to avoid interference with hardware or components within the unit, in which case the specific locations used for the temperature sensors shall be noted in the test data records maintained by the manufacturer in accordance with 10 CFR 429.71, and the certification report shall indicate that non-standard sensor locations were used. If any temperature sensor is relocated by any amount from the location prescribed in Figure 5-2 of HRF-1- 2019 in order to maintain a minimum 1-inch air space from adjustable shelves or other components that could be relocated by the consumer, except in cases in which the Figure prescribes a temperature sensor location within 1 inch of a shelf or similar feature, this constitutes a relocation of temperature sensors that must be recorded in the test data and reported in the certification report as described in this paragraph.

# 5.2. Test Conduct
(a) For the purposes of comparing compartment temperatures with standardized temperatures, as described in section 5.6 of HRF-1-2019, the freezer compartment temperature shall be as specified in section 5.8.1.2.5 of HRF-1-2019.
(b) In place of Table 5-1 in HRF-1-2019, refer to Table 1 of this section.
Table 1—Temperature Settings for Freezers
First test
Setting
Results
Second test
Setting
Results
Energy calculation based on:
Mid
Below standard reference temperature
Warmest
Below standard reference temperature
Second Test Only.
Above standard reference temperature
First and Second Test.
Above standard reference temperature
Coldest
Below standard reference temperature
First and Second Test.
Above standard reference temperature
Model may not be certified as compliant with energy conservation standards based on testing of this unit. Confirm that unit meets product definition. If so, see section 6 of this appendix.

# 5.3. Test Cycle Energy Calculations
Section 5.8.2,
Energy Consumption,
of HRF-1-2019 applies to this test procedure, except as follows:
(a) In place of section 5.8.2.1.2 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with long-time automatic defrost control using the two-part test period, the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:
ER12OC21.007
Where:
ET = test cycle energy expended in kilowatt-hours per day;
1440 = conversion factor to adjust to a 24-hour average use cycle in minutes per day;
K = dimensionless correction factor of 0.7 for chest freezers and 0.85 for upright freezers.
EP1 = energy expended in kilowatt-hours during the first part of the test;
EP2 = energy expended in kilowatt-hours during the second part of the test;
T1 and T2 = length of time in minutes of the first and second test parts, respectively;
CT = defrost timer run time or compressor run time between defrosts in hours required to go through a complete cycle, rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
12 = factor to adjust for a 50-percent run time of the compressor in hours per day.
(b) In place of sections 5.8.2.1.3 and 5.8.2.1.4 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with variable defrost control, the test cycle energy shall be calculated as set forth in section 5.3(a) of this appendix with the following addition:
CT shall be calculated equivalent to:
ER12OC21.008
Where:
CT
L
= the least or shortest compressor run time between defrosts used in the variable defrost control algorithm (greater than or equal to 6 but less than or equal to 12 hours), or the shortest compressor run time between defrosts observed for the test (if it is shorter than the shortest run time used in the control algorithm and is greater than 6 hours), or 6 hours (if the shortest observed run time is less than 6 hours), in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour;
CT
M
= the maximum compressor run time between defrosts in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour (greater than CT
L
but not more than 96 hours);
For variable defrost models with no values of CT
L
and CT
M
in the algorithm, the default values of 6 and 96 shall be used, respectively.
F = ratio of per day energy consumption in excess of the least energy and the maximum difference in per-day energy consumption and is equal to 0.20.

# 5.4.
Icemaker Energy Use
For freezers: To demonstrate compliance with the energy conservation standards at § 430.32(a) applicable to products manufactured on or after September 15, 2014, but before the compliance date of any amended standards published after January 1, 2022, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, equals 0.23 for a product with one or more automatic icemakers and otherwise equals 0 (zero). To demonstrate compliance with any amended standards published after January 1, 2022, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, is as defined in section 5.9.2.1 of HRF-1-2019.

# 6. Test Procedure Waivers
To the extent that the procedures contained in this appendix do not provide a means for determining the energy consumption of a basic model, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver under § 430.27 to establish an acceptable test procedure for each such basic model. Such instances could, for example, include situations where the test setup for a particular basic model is not clearly defined by the provisions of this appendix. For details regarding the criteria and procedures for obtaining a waiver, please refer to § 430.27.
[86 FR 56824, Oct. 12, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 3113, Jan. 17, 2024]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. C1

# Appendix C1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers

# Note:
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under this appendix to determine compliance with the relevant standards provided at § 430.32(f)(1).
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under appendix C2 to this subpart to determine compliance with the amended standards for dishwashers provided at § 430.32(f)(2).
Manufacturers may use appendix C2 to certify compliance with the standards provided at § 430.32(f)(2) prior to the applicable compliance date for those standards.
Any representations related to energy or water consumption of dishwashers must be made in accordance with the appropriate appendix that applies (
i.e.,
appendix C1 or appendix C2) when determining compliance with the relevant standards.
The regulation at 10 CFR 429.19(b)(3) provides instructions regarding the combination of detergent and detergent dosing, specified in section 2.5 of this appendix, used for certification.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
In § 430.3, DOE incorporated by reference the entire standard for AHAM DW-1-2020 and AHAM DW-2-2020; however, only enumerated provision of AHAM DW-1-2020, AHAM DW-2-2020, and IEC 62301 are applicable as follows:

# 0.1 AHAM DW-1-2020
(a) Sections 1.1 through 1.30 as referenced in section 1 of this appendix;
(b) Section 2.1 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.1 of this appendix;
(c) Sections 2.2 through 2.3.3, sections 2.5 through 2.7, sections 2.7.2 through 2.8, and section 2.11, as referenced in section 2 of this appendix;
(d) Section 2.4 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.2 of this appendix;
(e) Section 2.7.1 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.3 of this appendix;
(f) Section 2.9 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.4 of this appendix;
(g) Section 2.10 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.5 of this appendix;
(h) Sections 3.1 through 3.2 and sections 3.5 through 3.7 as referenced in section 3 of this appendix;
(i) Section 3.3 as referenced in sections 3 and 3.1 of this appendix;
(j) Section 3.4 as referenced in sections 3 and 3.2 of this appendix;
(k) Sections 4.1 through 4.1.2 and sections 4.1.4 through 4.2 as referenced in section 4 of this appendix;
(l) Section 4.1.4 as referenced in sections 4 and 4.1 of this appendix; and
(m) Section 5 as referenced in section 5 of this appendix.

# 0.2 AHAM DW-2-2020: Household Electric Dishwashers
(a) Section 3.4 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.3 of this appendix, and through reference to sections 1.5 and 1.22 of AHAM DW-1-2020 in section 1 of this appendix.
(b) Section 3.5 through reference to sections 1.5 and 1.22 of AHAM DW-1-2020 in section 1 of this appendix.
(c) Section 4.1 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix.
(d) Sections 5.3 through 5.8 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix, and through reference to sections 1.18, 1.19, and 1.20 of AHAM DW-1-2020 in section 1 of this appendix.

# 0.3 IEC 62301
(a) Sections 4.2, 4.3.2, and 5.2 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix; and
(b) Sections 5.1, note 1, and 5.3.2 as referenced in section 4 of this appendix.

# 1. Definitions
The definitions in sections 1.1 through 1.30 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure, including the applicable provisions of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in sections 1.5, 1.18, 1.19. 1.20, and 1.22 of AHAM DW-1-2020.

# 2. Testing Conditions
The testing conditions in sections 2.1 through 2.11 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure, including the following provisions of:
(a) Sections 5.2, 4.3.2, and 4.2 of IEC 62301 as referenced in sections 2.1, 2.2.4, and 2.5.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020, respectively, and
(b) Sections 5.3 through 5.8 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in sections 2.6.3.1, 2.6.3.2, and 2.6.3.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020; section 3.4 of AHAM DW-2-2020, excluding the accompanying Note, as referenced in section 2.7.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020; section 5.4 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in section 2.7.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020; section 5.5 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in section 2.7.5 of AHAM DW-1-2020, and section 4.1 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in section 2.10.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable.
2.1
Installation Requirements.
The installation requirements described in section 2.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers, with the following additions:
2.1.1
In-Sink Dishwashers.
For in-sink dishwashers, the requirements pertaining to the rectangular enclosure for under-counter or under-sink dishwashers are not applicable. For such dishwashers, the rectangular enclosure must consist of a front, a back, two sides, and a bottom. The front, back, and sides of the enclosure must be brought into the closest contact with the appliance that the configuration of the dishwasher will allow. The height of the enclosure shall be as specified in the manufacturer's instructions for installation height. If no instructions are provided, the enclosure height shall be 36 inches. The dishwasher must be installed from the top and mounted to the edges of the enclosure.
2.1.2
Dishwashers without a Direct Water Line.
Manually fill the built-in water reservoir to the full capacity reported by the manufacturer, using water at a temperature in accordance with section 2.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020.
2.2
Water pressure.
The water pressure requirements described in section 2.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line.
2.3
Test load items.
The test load items described in section 2.7.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure, including the applicable provisions of section 3.4 of AHAM DW-2-2020, as referenced in section 2.7.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020. The following test load items may be used in the alternative.
Dishware/glassware/flatware item
Primary source
Description
Primary No.
Alternate source
Alternate source No.
Dinner Plate
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
10 inch Dinner Plate
6003893
Bread and Butter Plate
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
6.75 inch Bread
Butter
6003887
Arzberg
8500217100 or 2000-00001-0217-1.
Fruit Bowl
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
10 oz. Dessert Bowl
6003899
Arzberg
3820513100.
Cup
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
8 oz. Ceramic Cup
6014162
Arzberg
1382-00001-4732.
Saucer
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
6 inch Saucer
6010972
Arzberg
1382-00001-4731.
Serving Bowl
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
1 qt. Serving Bowl
6003911
Platter
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
9.5 inch Oval Platter
6011655
Glass—Iced Tea
Libbey
551 HT
Flatware—Knife
Oneida®—Accent
2619KPVF
WMF—Gastro 0800
12.0803.6047.
Flatware—Dinner Fork
Oneida®—Accent
2619FRSF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1905.6040.
Flatware—Salad Fork
Oneida®—Accent
2619FSLF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1964.6040.
Flatware—Teaspoon
Oneida®—Accent
2619STSF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1910.6040.
Flatware—Serving Fork
Oneida®—Flight
2865FCM
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1902.6040.
Flatware—Serving Spoon
Oneida®—Accent
2619STBF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1904.6040.
2.4
Preconditioning requirements.
The preconditioning requirements described in section 2.9 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers. For dishwashers that do not have a direct water line, measurement of the prewash fill water volume, V
pw
, if any, and measurement of the main wash fill water volume, V
mw
, are not taken.
2.5
Detergent.
2.5.1
Detergent Formulation.
Either Cascade with the Grease Fighting Power of Dawn or Cascade Complete Powder may be used.
2.5.2
Detergent Dosage.
2.5.2.1
Dosage for any dishwasher other than water re-use system dishwashers.
If Cascade with the Grease Fighting Power of Dawn detergent is used, the detergent dosing specified in section 2.5.2.1.1 of this appendix must be used.
If Cascade Complete Powder detergent is used, consult the introductory note to this appendix regarding use of the detergent dosing specified in either section 2.5.2.1.1 or section 2.5.2.1.2 of this appendix.
2.5.2.1.1
Dosage based on fill water volumes.
Determine detergent dosage as follows:
Prewash Detergent Dosing.
If the cycle setting for the test cycle includes prewash, determine the quantity of dry prewash detergent, D
pw,
in grams (g) that results in 0.25 percent concentration by mass in the prewash fill water as:
D
pw
= V
pw
× ρ × k × 0.25/100
where,
V
pw
= the prewash fill volume of water in gallons,
ρ = water density = 8.343 pounds (lb)/gallon for dishwashers to be tested at a nominal inlet water temperature of 50 °F (10 °C), 8.250 lb/gallon for dishwashers to be tested at a nominal inlet water temperature of 120 °F (49 °C), and 8.205 lb/gallon for dishwashers to be tested at a nominal inlet water temperature of 140 °F (60 °C), and
k = conversion factor from lb to g = 453.6 g/lb.
Main Wash Detergent Dosing.
Determine the quantity of dry main wash detergent, D
mw,
in
grams (g) that results in 0.25 percent concentration by mass in the main wash fill water as:
D
mw
= V
mw
× ρ × k × 0.25/100
where,
V
mw
= the main wash fill volume of water in gallons, and
ρ and k are as defined above.
For dishwashers that do not have a direct water line, V
mw
is equal to the manufacturer reported water capacity used in the main wash stage of the test cycle.
2.5.2.1.2
Dosage based on number of place settings.
Determine detergent dosage as specified in sections 2.10 and 2.10.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020.
2.5.2.2
Dosage for water re-use system dishwashers.
Determine detergent dosage as specified in section 2.10.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020.
2.5.3
Detergent Placement.
Prewash and main wash detergent must be placed as specified in sections 2.10 and 2.10.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020. For any dishwasher that does not have a main wash detergent compartment and the manufacturer does not recommend a location to place the main wash detergent, place the main wash detergent directly into the dishwasher chamber.
2.6
Connected functionality.
For dishwashers that can communicate through a network (
e.g.,
Bluetooth® or internet connection), disable all network functions that can be disabled by means provided in the manufacturer's user manual, for the duration of testing. If network functions cannot be disabled by means provided in the manufacturer's user manual, conduct the standby power test with network function in the “as-shipped” condition.

# 3. Instrumentation
For this test procedure, the test instruments are to be calibrated annually according to the specifications in sections 3.1 through 3.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020, including the applicable provisions of IEC 62301 as referenced in section 3.6 of AHAM DW-1-2020. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable.
3.1
Water meter.
The water meter requirements described in section 3.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line. For such dishwashers these water meter conditions do not apply and water is added manually pursuant to section 2.1.1 of this appendix.
3.2
Water pressure gauge.
The water pressure gauge requirements described in section 3.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line. For such dishwashers these water pressure gauge conditions do not apply and water is added manually pursuant to section 2.1.1 of this appendix.

# 4. Test Cycle and Measurements
The test cycle and measurement specifications in sections 4.1 through 4.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure, including section 5.1, note 1, and section 5.3.2 of IEC 62301 as referenced in section 4.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable.
4.1
Water consumption.
The water consumption requirements described in section 4.1.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line. For such dishwashers these water consumption measurement requirements do not apply and water consumption, V, is the value reported by the manufacturer.

# 5. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
The calculations in section 5.1 through 5.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure. The following additional requirements are also applicable:
(a) In sections 5.1.3, 5.1.4, 5.1.5, 5.4.3, 5.4.4, 5.4.5, and 5.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020, use N = 215 cycles/year in place of N = 184 cycles/year.
(b) In section 5.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020, use S
LP
= 8,465 for dishwashers that are not capable of operating in fan-only mode.
(c) For dishwashers that do not have a direct water line, water consumption is equal to the volume of water use in the test cycle, as specified by the manufacturer.
(d) In sections 5.6.1.3, 5.6.1.4, 5.6.2.3, and 5.6.2.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020, use (C/e) in place of K.
[88 FR 3277, Jan. 18, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 48357, July 27, 2023; 89 FR 83617, Oct. 17, 2024]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. C2

# Appendix C2 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers

# Note:
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under this appendix to determine compliance with the relevant standards provided at § 430.32(f)(2). Manufacturers may use this appendix to certify compliance with the standards provided at § 430.32(f)(2) prior to the applicable compliance date for those standards.
Any representations related to energy or water consumption of dishwashers must be made in accordance with the appropriate appendix that applies (
i.e.,
appendix C1 or appendix C2) when determining compliance with the relevant standards.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
In § 430.3, DOE incorporated by reference the entire standard for AHAM DW-1-2020 and AHAM DW-2-2020; however, only enumerated provision of AHAM DW-1-2020, AHAM DW-2-2020, and IEC 62301 are applicable as follows:

# 0.1 AHAM DW-1-2020
(a) Sections 1.1 through 1.30 as referenced in section 1 of this appendix;
(b) Section 2.1 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.1 of this appendix;
(c) Sections 2.2 through 2.3.3, sections 2.5 and 2.7, sections 2.7.2 through 2.8, and section 2.11, as referenced in section 2 of this appendix;
(d) Section 2.4 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.2 of this appendix;
(e) Section 2.6.3 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.3 of this appendix;
(f) Section 2.7.1 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.4 of this appendix;
(g) Section 2.9 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.5 of this appendix;
(h) Section 2.10 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.6 of this appendix;
(i) Sections 3.1 through 3.2 and sections 3.5 through 3.7 as referenced in section 3 of this appendix;
(j) Section 3.3 as referenced in sections 3 and 3.1 of this appendix;
(k) Section 3.4 as referenced in sections 3 and 3.2 of this appendix;
(l) Section 4.1 as referenced in sections 4 and 4.1 of this appendix;
(m) Section 4.1.4 as referenced in sections 4 and 4.1.2 of this appendix; and
(n) Section 5 as referenced in section 5 of this appendix.

# 0.2 AHAM DW-2-2020
(a) Section 3.4 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.4 of this appendix, and through reference to sections 1.5 and 1.22 of AHAM DW-1-2020 in section 1 of this appendix.
(b) Section 3.5 through reference to sections 1.5 and 1.22 of AHAM DW-1-2020 in section 1 of this appendix.
(c) Section 4.1 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix.
(d) Sections 5.3 through 5.8 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix, and through reference to sections 1.18, 1.19 and 1.20 of AHAM DW-1-2020 in section 1 of this appendix.
(e) Section 5.10 as referenced in sections 2 and 2.8 of this appendix;
(f) Sections 5.10.1.1 as referenced in sections 4 and 4.2 of this appendix; and
(g) Section 5.12.3.1 as referenced in sections 5 and 5.1 of this appendix.

# 0.3 IEC 62301
(a) Sections 4.2, 4.3.2, and 5.2 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix; and
(b) Sections 5.1, note 1, and 5.3.2 as referenced in section 4 of this appendix.

# 1. Definitions
The definitions in sections 1.1 through 1.30 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure, including the applicable provisions of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in sections 1.5, 1.18, 1.19, 1.20, and 1.22 of AHAM DW-1-2020.

# 2. Testing Conditions
The testing conditions in Section 2.1 through 2.11 of AHAM DW-1-2020, except sections 2.6.1 and 2.6.2, and the testing conditions in section 5.10 of AHAM DW-2-2020 apply to this test procedure, including the following provisions of:
(a) Sections 5.2, 4.3.2, and 4.2 of IEC 62301 as referenced in sections 2.1, 2.2.4, and 2.5.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020, respectively, and
(b) Sections 5.3 through 5.8 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in sections 2.6.3.1, 2.6.3.2, and 2.6.3.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020; section 3.4 of AHAM DW-2-2020, excluding the accompanying Note, as referenced in section 2.7.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020; section 5.4 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in section 2.7.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020; section 5.5 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in section 2.7.5 of AHAM DW-1-2020, and section 4.1 of AHAM DW-2-2020 as referenced in section 2.10.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable.
2.1
Installation Requirements.
The installation requirements described in section 2.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers, with the following additions:
2.1.1
In-Sink Dishwashers.
For in-sink dishwashers, the requirements pertaining to the rectangular enclosure for under-counter or under-sink dishwashers are not applicable. For such dishwashers, the rectangular enclosure must consist of a front, a back, two sides, and a bottom. The front, back, and sides of the enclosure must be brought into the closest contact with the appliance that the configuration of the dishwasher will allow. The height of the enclosure shall be as specified in the manufacturer's instructions for installation height. If no instructions are provided, the enclosure height shall be 36 inches. The dishwasher must be installed from the top and mounted to the edges of the enclosure.
2.1.2
Dishwashers without a Direct Water Line.
Manually fill the built-in water reservoir to the full capacity reported by the manufacturer, using water at a temperature in accordance with section 2.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020.
2.2
Water pressure.
The water pressure requirements described in section 2.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line.
2.3
Non-soil-sensing and soil-sensing dishwashers to be tested at a nominal inlet temperature of 50 °F, 120 °F, or 140 °F.
The test load and soiling requirements for all non-soil-sensing and soil-sensing dishwashers shall be the same as those requirements specified in section 2.6.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020 for soil-sensing dishwashers. Additionally, both non-soil-sensing and soil-sensing compact dishwashers that have a capacity of less than four place settings shall be tested at the rated capacity of the dishwasher and the test load shall be soiled as follows at each soil load:
(a) Heavy soil load: soil two-thirds of the place settings, excluding flatware and serving pieces (rounded up to the nearest integer) or one place setting, whichever is greater;
(b) Medium soil load: soil one-quarter of the place settings, excluding flatware and serving pieces (rounded up to the nearest integer) or one place setting, whichever is smaller;
(c) Light soil load: soil one-quarter of the place settings, excluding flatware and serving pieces (rounded up to the nearest integer) or one place setting, whichever is smaller, using half the quantity of soils specified for one place setting.
2.4
Test load items.
The test load items described in section 2.7.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020 apply to this test procedure, including the applicable provisions of section 3.4 of AHAM DW-2-2020, as referenced in section 2.7.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020. The following test load items may be used in the alternative.
Dishware/glassware/flatware item
Primary source
Description
Primary No.
Alternate source
Alternate source No.
Dinner Plate
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
10 inch Dinner Plate
6003893
Bread and Butter Plate
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
6.75 inch Bread
Butter
6003887
Arzberg
8500217100 or 2000-00001-0217-1.
Fruit Bowl
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
10 oz. Dessert Bowl
6003899
Arzberg
3820513100.
Cup
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
8 oz. Ceramic Cup
6014162
Arzberg
1382-00001-4732.
Saucer
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
6 inch Saucer
6010972
Arzberg
1382-00001-4731.
Serving Bowl
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
1 qt. Serving Bowl
6003911
Platter
Corning Comcor®/Corelle®
9.5 inch Oval Platter
6011655
Glass—Iced Tea
Libbey
551 HT
Flatware—Knife
Oneida®—Accent
2619KPVF
WMF—Gastro 0800
12.0803.6047.
Flatware—Dinner Fork
Oneida®—Accent
2619FRSF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1905.6040.
Flatware—Salad Fork
Oneida®—Accent
2619FSLF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1964.6040.
Flatware—Teaspoon
Oneida®—Accent
2619STSF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1910.6040.
Flatware—Serving Fork
Oneida®—Flight
2865FCM
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1902.6040.
Flatware—Serving Spoon
Oneida®—Accent
2619STBF
WMF—Signum 1900
12.1904.6040.
2.5
Preconditioning requirements.
The preconditioning requirements described in section 2.9 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except the measurement of the prewash fill water volume, V
pw
, if any, and measurement of the main wash fill water volume, V
mw
, are not required.
2.6
Detergent.
The detergent requirements described in section 2.10 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers. For any dishwasher that does not have a main wash detergent compartment and the manufacturer does not recommend a location to place the main wash detergent, place the detergent directly into the dishwasher chamber.
2.7
Connected functionality.
For dishwashers that can communicate through a network (
e.g.,
Bluetooth® or internet connection), disable all network functions that can be disabled by means provided in the manufacturer's user manual, for the duration of testing. If network functions cannot be disabled by means provided in the manufacturer's user manual, conduct the standby power test with network function in the “as-shipped” condition.
2.8
Evaluation Room Lighting Conditions.
The lighting setup in the evaluation room where the test load is scored shall be according to the requirements specified in section 5.10 of AHAM DW-2-2020.

# 3. Instrumentation
For this test procedure, the test instruments are to be calibrated annually according to the specifications in section 3.1 through 3.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020, including the applicable provisions of IEC 62301 as referenced in section 3.6 of AHAM DW-1-2020. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable.
3.1
Water meter.
The water meter requirements described in section 3.3 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line. For such dishwashers these water meter conditions do not apply and water is added manually pursuant to section 2.1.1 of this appendix.
3.2
Water pressure gauge.
The water pressure gauge requirements described in section 3.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line. For such dishwashers these water pressure gauge conditions do not apply and water is added manually pursuant to section 2.1.1 of this appendix.

# 4. Test Cycle and Measurements
The test cycle and measurement specifications in sections 4.1 through 4.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020 and the scoring specifications in section 5.10.1.1 of AHAM DW-2-2020 apply to this test procedure, including section 5.1, note 1, and section 5.3.2 of IEC 62301 as referenced in section 4.2 of AHAM DW-1-2020. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable.
4.1
Active mode cycle.
The active mode energy consumption measurement requirements described in section 4.1 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers. Additionally, the following requirements are also applicable:
(a) After the completion of each test cycle (sensor heavy response, sensor medium response, and sensor light response), the test load shall be scored according to section 4.2 of this appendix and its cleaning index calculated according to section 5.1 of this appendix.
(b) A test cycle is considered valid if its cleaning index is 70 or higher; otherwise, the test cycle is invalid and the data from that test run is discarded.
(c) For soil-sensing dishwashers, if the test cycle at any soil load is invalid, clean the dishwasher filter according to manufacturer's instructions and repeat the test at that soil load on the most energy-intensive cycle (determined as provided in section 4.1.1 of this appendix) that achieves a cleaning index of 70 or higher.
(d) For non-soil-sensing dishwashers, perform testing as described in section 4.1.a through 4.1.c of this appendix, except that, if a test cycle at a given soil load meets the cleaning index threshold criteria of 70 when tested on the normal cycle, no further testing is required for test cycles at lesser soil loads.
4.1.1
Determination of most energy-intensive cycle.
If the most energy-intensive cycle is not known and needs to be determined via testing, ensure the filter is cleaned as specified in the manufacturer's instructions and test each available cycle type, selecting the default cycle options for that cycle type. In the absence of manufacturer recommendations on washing and drying temperature options, the highest energy consumption options must be selected. Following the completion of each test cycle, the machine electrical energy consumption and water consumption shall be measured according to sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020, respectively. The total cycle energy consumption, E
MEI
, of each tested cycle type shall be calculated according to section 5.2 of this appendix. The most energy-intensive cycle is the cycle type with the highest value of E
MEI
.
For standard dishwashers, test each cycle with a clean load of eight place settings plus six serving pieces, as specified in section 2.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020. For compact dishwashers, test each cycle with a clean load of four place settings plus six serving pieces, as specified in section 2.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020. If the capacity of the dishwasher, as stated by the manufacturer, is less than four place settings, then the test load must be the stated capacity.
4.1.2
Water consumption.
The water consumption requirements described in section 4.1.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers except dishwashers that do not have a direct water line. For such dishwashers these water consumption measurement requirements do not apply and water consumption, V, is the value reported by the manufacturer.
4.2
Scoring.
Following the termination of an active mode test, each item in the test load shall be scored on a scale from 0 to 9 according to the instructions in section 5.10.1.1 of AHAM DW-2-2020.

# 5. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
The calculations in sections 5.1 through 5.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020 and section 5.12.3.1 of AHAM DW-2-2020 apply to this test procedure. The following additional requirements are also applicable:
(a) For both soil-sensing and non-soil-sensing dishwashers, use the equations specified for soil-sensing dishwashers.
(b) If a non-soil-sensing dishwasher is not tested at a certain soil load as specified in section 4.1.d of this appendix, use the energy
and water consumption values of the preceding soil load when calculating the weighted average energy and water consumption values (
i.e.,
if the sensor medium response and sensor light response tests on the normal cycle are not conducted, use the values of the sensor heavy response test for all three soil loads; if only the sensor light response test is not conducted, use the values of the sensor medium response test for the sensor light response test).
(c) For dishwashers that do not have a direct water line, water consumption is equal to the volume of water use in the test cycle, as specified by the manufacturer.
(d) In sections 5.6.1.3, 5.6.1.4, 5.6.2.3, and 5.6.2.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020, use (C/e) in place of K.
5.1
Cleaning Index.
Determine the per-cycle cleaning index for each test cycle using the equation in section 5.12.3.1 of AHAM DW-2-2020.
5.2
Calculation for determination of the most energy-intensive cycle type.
The total cycle energy consumption for the determination of the most energy-intensive cycle specified in section 4.1.1 of this appendix is calculated for each tested cycle type as:
E
MEI
= M + E
F
−(E
D
/2) + W
where,
M = per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption, expressed in kilowatt hours per cycle,
E
F
= fan-only mode electrical energy consumption, if available on the tested cycle type, expressed in kilowatt hours per cycle,
E
D
= drying energy consumed using the power-dry feature after the termination of the last rinse option of the tested cycle type, if available on the tested cycle type, expressed in kilowatt hours per cycle, and
W = water energy consumption and is defined as:
V × T × K, for dishwashers using electrically heated water, and
V × T × C/e, for dishwashers using gas-heated or oil-heated water.
Additionally,
V = water consumption in gallons per cycle,
T = nominal water heater temperature rise and is equal to 90 °F for dishwashers that operate with a nominal 140 °F inlet water temperature, and 70 °F for dishwashers that operate with a nominal 120 °F inlet water temperature,
K = specific heat of water in kilowatt-hours per gallon per degree Fahrenheit = 0.0024,
C = specific heat of water in Btu's per gallon per degree Fahrenheit = 8.2, and
e = nominal gas or oil water heater recovery efficiency = 0.75.
[88 FR 3279, Jan. 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 83617, Oct. 17, 2204]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. D1

# Appendix D1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers

# Note:
The procedures in either this appendix or appendix D2 to this subpart must be used to determine compliance with the energy conservation standards for clothes dryers provided at § 430.32(h)(3).
Manufacturers must use a single appendix for all representations, including certifications of compliance, and may not use this appendix for certain representations and appendix D2 to this subpart for other representations. The procedures in appendix D2 to this subpart must be used to determine compliance with the energy conservation standards for clothes dryers provided at § 430.32(h)(4).

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3 the standards for AHAM HLD-1 and IEC 62301, in their entirety, however, only enumerated provisions of those documents are applicable to this appendix. In cases where there is a conflict between any industry standard(s) and this appendix, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the industry standard(s).
(1) AHAM HLD-1:
(i) Section 3.3.5.1 “Standard Simulator” as referenced in sections 2.1.2 through 2.1.3 of this appendix.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) IEC 62301:
(i) Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 as referenced in section 3.6.2 of this appendix.
(ii) Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 “Sampling Method” as referenced in section 3.6.3 of this appendix.

# 1. Definitions
1.1 “Active mode” means a mode in which the clothes dryer is connected to a main power source, has been activated and is performing the main function of tumbling the clothing with or without heated or unheated forced air circulation to remove moisture from the clothing, remove wrinkles or prevent wrinkling of the clothing, or both.
1.2 “AHAM” means the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.
1.3 “AHAM HLD-1” means the test standard published by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, titled “Household Tumble Type Clothes Dryers,” ANSI-approved June 11, 2010, ANSI/AHAM HLD-1-2010.
1.4 “Automatic termination control” means a dryer control system with a sensor which monitors either the dryer load temperature or its moisture content and with a controller which automatically terminates the drying process. A mark, detent, or other visual indicator or detent which indicates a preferred automatic termination control setting must be present if the dryer is to be classified as having an “automatic termination control.” A mark is a visible single control setting on one or more dryer controls.
1.5 “Bone dry” means a condition of a load of test cloths which has been dried in a dryer at maximum temperature for a minimum of 10 minutes, removed, and weighed before cool down, and then dried again for 10-minute periods until the final weight change of the load is 1 percent or less.
1.6 “Compact” or “compact size” means a clothes dryer with a drum capacity of less than 4.4 cubic feet.
1.7 “Cool down” means that portion of the clothes drying cycle when the added gas or electric heat is terminated and the clothes continue to tumble and dry within the drum.
1.8 “Cycle” means a sequence of operation of a clothes dryer which performs a clothes drying operation, and may include variations or combinations of the functions of heating, tumbling, and drying.
1.9 “Drum capacity” means the volume of the drying drum in cubic feet.
1.10 “IEC 62301” (Second Edition) means the test standard published by the International Electrotechnical Commission (“IEC”) titled “Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power,” Publication 62301 (Edition 2.0 2011-01) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
1.11 “Final moisture content” (“FMC”) means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the dry test load (
i.e.,
after completion of the drying cycle) to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.
1.12 “Inactive mode” means a standby mode that facilitates the activation of active mode by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer, or that provides continuous status display.
1.13 “Initial moisture content” (“IMC”) means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the damp test load (
i.e.,
prior to completion of the drying cycle) to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.
1.14 “Moisture content” means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the test load to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.
1.15 “Off mode” means a mode in which the clothes dryer is connected to a main power source and is not providing any active or standby mode function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time. An indicator that only shows the user that the product is in the off position is included within the classification of an off mode.
1.16 “Standard size” means a clothes dryer with a drum capacity of 4.4 cubic feet or greater.
1.17 “Standby mode” means any product modes where the energy using product is connected to a main power source and offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions which may persist for an indefinite time:
(a) To facilitate the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer.
(b) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions. A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that provides regular scheduled tasks (e.g., switching) and that operates on a continuous basis.
1.18 “Vented clothes dryer” means a clothes dryer that exhausts the evaporated moisture from the cabinet.
1.19 “Ventless clothes dryer” means a clothes dryer that uses a closed-loop system with an internal condenser to remove the evaporated moisture from the heated air. The moist air is not discharged from the cabinet.

# 2. Testing Conditions
2.1
Installation.
2.1.1
All clothes dryers.
For both vented clothes dryers and ventless clothes dryers, install the clothes dryer in accordance with manufacturer's instructions as shipped with the unit. If the manufacturer's instructions do not specify the installation requirements for a certain component, it shall be tested in the as-shipped condition. Where the manufacturer gives the option to use the dryer both with and without a duct, the dryer shall be tested without the exhaust simulator described in section 3.3.5.1 of AHAM HLD-1 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). All external joints should be taped to avoid air leakage. For drying testing, disconnect all lights, such as task lights, that do not provide any information related to the drying process on the clothes dryer and that do not consume more than 10 watts during the clothes dryer test cycle. Control setting indicator lights showing the cycle progression, temperature or dryness settings, or other cycle functions that cannot be turned off during the test cycle shall not be disconnected during the active mode test cycle. For standby and off mode testing, the clothes dryer shall also be installed in accordance with section 5, paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), disregarding the provisions regarding batteries and the determination, classification, and testing of relevant
modes. For standby and off mode testing, all lighting systems shall remain connected.
2.1.2
Vented clothes dryers.
For vented clothes dryers, the dryer exhaust shall be restricted by adding the AHAM exhaust simulator described in section 3.3.5.1 of AHAM HLD-1.
2.1.3
Ventless clothes dryers.
For ventless clothes dryers, the dryer shall be tested without the AHAM exhaust simulator. If the manufacturer gives the option to use a ventless clothes dryer, with or without a condensation box, the dryer shall be tested with the condensation box installed. For ventless clothes dryers, the condenser unit of the dryer must remain in place and not be taken out of the dryer for any reason between tests.
2.2
Ambient temperature and humidity.
2.2.1 For drying testing, maintain the room ambient air temperature at 75 ±3 °F and the room relative humidity at 50 percent ±10 percent relative humidity.
2.2.2 For standby and off mode testing, maintain room ambient air temperature conditions as specified in section 4, paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3)
2.3
Energy supply.
2.3.1
Electrical supply.
Maintain the electrical supply at the clothes dryer terminal block within 1 percent of 120/240 or 120/208Y or 120 volts as applicable to the particular terminal block wiring system and within 1 percent of the nameplate frequency as specified by the manufacturer. If the dryer has a dual voltage conversion capability, conduct the test at the highest voltage specified by the manufacturer.
2.3.1.1
Supply voltage waveform.
For the clothes dryer standby mode and off mode testing, maintain the electrical supply voltage waveform indicated in section 4, paragraph 4.3.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the total harmonic content during the test measurement period, it is acceptable to measure and record the total harmonic content immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.3.2
Gas supply.
2.3.2.1
Natural gas supply.
Maintain the gas supply to the clothes dryer immediately ahead of all controls at a pressure of 7 to 10 inches of water column. The natural gas supplied should have a heating value of approximately 1,025 Btus per standard cubic foot. The actual heating value, H
n
2, in Btus per standard cubic foot, for the natural gas to be used in the test shall be obtained either from measurements using a standard continuous flow calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix or by the purchase of bottled natural gas whose Btu rating is certified to be at least as accurate a rating as could be obtained from measurements with a standard continuous flow calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix.
2.3.2.2
Propane gas supply.
Maintain the gas supply to the clothes dryer immediately ahead of all controls at a pressure of 11 to 13 inches of water column. The propane gas supplied should have a heating value of approximately 2,500 Btus per standard cubic foot. The actual heating value, H
p
, in Btus per standard cubic foot, for the propane gas to be used in the test shall be obtained either from measurements using a standard continuous flow calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix or by the purchase of bottled gas whose Btu rating is certified to be at least as accurate a rating as could be obtained from measurement with a standard continuous calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix.
2.3.2.3
Hourly Btu Rating.
Maintain the hourly Btu rating of the burner within ±5 percent of the rating specified by the manufacturer. If the hourly Btu rating of the burner cannot be maintained within ±5 percent of the rating specified by the manufacturer, make adjustments in the following order until an hourly Btu rating of the burner within ±5 percent of the rating specified by the manufacturer is achieved:
(1) Modify the gas inlet supply pressure within the allowable range specified in section 2.3.2.1 or 2.3.2.2 of this appendix, as applicable;
(2) If the clothes dryer is equipped with a gas pressure regulator, modify the outlet pressure of the gas pressure regulator within ±10 percent of the value recommended by the manufacturer in the installation manual, on the nameplate sticker, or wherever the manufacturer makes such a recommendation for the basic model; and
(3) Modify the orifice as necessary to achieve the required hourly Btu rating.
2.4
Instrumentation.
Perform all test measurements using the following instruments as appropriate.
2.4.1
Weighing scales.
2.4.1.1
Weighing scale for test cloth.
The scale shall have a range of 0 to a maximum of 60 pounds with a resolution of at least 0.001 pounds and a maximum error no greater than 0.1 percent of any measured value within the range of 3 to 15 pounds.
2.4.1.2
Weighing scale for drum capacity measurements.
The scale should have a range of 0 to a maximum of 600 pounds with resolution of 0.50 pounds and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.4.2
Kilowatt-hour meter.
The kilowatt-hour meter shall have a resolution of 0.001 kilowatt-hours and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.4.3
Gas meter.
The gas meter shall have a resolution of 0.001 cubic feet and a maximum
error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.4.4
Dry and wet bulb psychrometer.
The dry and wet bulb psychrometer shall have an error no greater than ±1 °F. A relative humidity meter with a maximum error tolerance expressed in °F equivalent to the requirements for the dry and wet bulb psychrometer or with a maximum error tolerance of ±2 percent relative humidity would be acceptable for measuring the ambient humidity.
2.4.5
Temperature.
The temperature sensor shall have an error no greater than ±1 °F.
2.4.6
Standard Continuous Flow Calorimeter.
The calorimeter shall have an operating range of 750 to 3,500 Btu per cubic feet. The maximum error of the basic calorimeter shall be no greater than 0.2 percent of the actual heating value of the gas used in the test. The indicator readout shall have a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value within the operating range and a resolution of 0.2 percent of the full-scale reading of the indicator instrument.
2.4.7
Standby mode and off mode watt meter.
The watt meter used to measure standby mode and off mode power consumption shall meet the requirements specified in section 4, paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the crest factor, power factor, or maximum current ratio during the test measurement period, it is acceptable to measure the crest factor, power factor, and maximum current ratio immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.5
Lint trap.
Clean the lint trap thoroughly before each test run.
2.6
Test Cloths.
2.6.1
Energy test cloth.
The energy test cloth shall be clean and consist of the following:
(a) Pure finished bleached cloth, made with a momie or granite weave, which is a blended fabric of 50-percent cotton and 50-percent polyester and weighs within + 10 percent of 5.75 ounces per square yard after test cloth preconditioning, and has 65 ends on the warp and 57 picks on the fill. The individual warp and fill yarns are a blend of 50-percent cotton and 50-percent polyester fibers.
(b) Cloth material that is 24 inches by 36 inches and has been hemmed to 22 inches by 34 inches before washing. The maximum shrinkage after five washes shall not be more than 4 percent on the length and width.
(c) The number of test runs on the same energy test cloth shall not exceed 25 runs.
2.6.2
Energy stuffer cloths.
The energy stuffer cloths shall be made from energy test cloth material, and shall consist of pieces of material that are 12 inches by 12 inches and have been hemmed to 10 inches by 10 inches before washing. The maximum shrinkage after five washes shall not be more than 4 percent on the length and width. The number of test runs on the same energy stuffer cloth shall not exceed 25 runs after test cloth preconditioning.
2.6.3
Test Cloth Preconditioning.
A new test cloth load and energy stuffer cloths shall be treated as follows:
(1) Bone dry the load to a weight change of ±1 percent, or less, as prescribed in section 1.5.
(2) Place the test cloth load in a standard clothes washer set at the maximum water fill level. Wash the load for 10 minutes in soft water (17 parts per million hardness or less), using 60.8 grams of AHAM standard test detergent Formula 3. Wash water temperature is to be controlled at 140 ° ±5 °F (60 ° ±2.7 °C). Rinse water temperature is to be controlled at 100 ° ±5 °F (37.7 ±2.7 °C).
(3) Rinse the load again at the same water temperature.
(4) Bone dry the load as prescribed in section 1.5 and weigh the load.
(5) This procedure is repeated until there is a weight change of 1 percent or less.
(6) A final cycle is to be a hot water wash with no detergent, followed by two warm water rinses.
2.7
Test loads.
2.7.1
Load size.
Determine the load size for the unit under test, according to Table 1 of this section.
Table 1—Test Loads
Unit under test
Test load
(bone dry weight)
Standard size clothes dryer
8.45 pounds ± .085 pounds.
Compact size clothes dryer
3.00 pounds ± .03 pounds.
Each test load must consist of energy test cloths and no more than five energy stuffer cloths.
2.7.2
Test load preparation.
Dampen the load by agitating it in water whose temperature is 60 °F ± 5 °F and consists of 0 to 17 parts per million hardness for approximately 2 minutes in order to saturate the fabric. Then, extract water from the wet test load by spinning the load to a target moisture content between 54.0-61.0 percent of the bone-dry weight of the test load. If after extraction the moisture content is less than 54.0 percent, make a final mass adjustment, such that the moisture content is between 54.0-61.0 percent of the bone-dry weight of the test load, by adding water uniformly distributed among all of the test cloths in a very fine spray using a spray bottle.
2.7.3
Method of loading.
Load the energy test cloths by grasping them in the center, shaking them to hang loosely, and then dropping them in the dryer at random.
2.8
Clothes dryer preconditioning.
2.8.1
Vented clothes dryers.
For vented clothes dryers, before any test cycle, operate
the dryer without a test load in the non-heat mode for 15 minutes or until the discharge air temperature is varying less than 1 °F for 10 minutes—whichever is longer—in the test installation location with the ambient conditions within the specified test condition tolerances of section 2.2 of this appendix.
2.8.2
Ventless clothes dryers.
For ventless clothes dryers, before any test cycle, the steady-state machine temperature must be equal to ambient room temperature described in 2.2.1. This may be done by leaving the machine at ambient room conditions for at least 12 hours between tests.

# 3. Test Procedures and Measurements
3.1
Drum Capacity.
Measure the drum capacity by sealing all openings in the drum except the loading port with a plastic bag, and ensuring that all corners and depressions are filled and that there are no extrusions of the plastic bag through any openings in the interior of the drum. Support the dryer's rear drum surface on a platform scale to prevent deflection of the drum surface, and record the weight of the empty dryer. Fill the drum with water to a level determined by the intersection of the door plane and the loading port (
i.e.,
the uppermost edge of the drum that is in contact with the door seal). Record the temperature of the water and then the weight of the dryer with the added water and then determine the mass of the water in pounds. Add the appropriate volume to account for any space in the drum interior not measured by water fill (e.g., the space above the uppermost edge of the drum within a curved door) and subtract the appropriate volume to account for space that is measured by water fill but cannot be used when the door is closed (e.g., space occupied by the door when closed). The drum capacity is calculated to the nearest 0.1 cubic foot as follows:
C
= w/d ±volume adjustment
C
= capacity in cubic feet.
w
= mass of water in pounds.
d
= density of water at the measured temperature in pounds per cubic foot.
3.2
Dryer Loading.
Load the dryer as specified in 2.7.
3.3
Test cycle.
Operate the clothes dryer at the maximum temperature setting and, if equipped with a timer, at the maximum time setting. Any other optional cycle settings that do not affect the temperature or time settings shall be tested in the as-shipped position, except that if the clothes dryer has network capabilities, the network settings must be disabled throughout testing if such settings can be disabled by the end-user and the product's user manual provides instructions on how to do so. If the network settings cannot be disabled by the end-user, or the product's user manual does not provide instruction for disabling network settings, then the unit must be tested with the network settings in the factory default configuration for the test cycle. If the clothes dryer does not have a separate temperature setting selection on the control panel, the maximum time setting should be used for the drying test cycle. Dry the load until the moisture content of the test load is between 2.5 and 5.0 percent of the bone-dry weight of the test load, at which point the test cycle is stopped, but do not permit the dryer to advance into cool down. If required, reset the timer to increase the length of the drying cycle. After stopping the test cycle, remove and weigh the test load within 5 minutes following termination of the test cycle. The clothes dryer shall not be stopped intermittently in the middle of the test cycle for any reason. Record the data specified by section 3.4 of this appendix. If the dryer automatically stops during a cycle because the condensation box is full of water, the test is stopped, and the test run is invalid, in which case the condensation box shall be emptied and the test re-run from the beginning. For ventless clothes dryers, during the time between two cycles, the door of the dryer shall be closed except for loading and unloading.
3.4
Data recording.
Record for each test cycle:
3.4.1 Bone-dry weight of the test load, W
bonedry
, as described in section 2.7.1 of this appendix.
3.4.2 Moisture content of the wet test load before the test, IMC, as described in section 2.7.2 of this appendix.
3.4.3 Moisture content of the dry test load obtained after the test, FMC, as described in section 3.3 of this appendix.
3.4.4 Test room conditions, temperature, and percent relative humidity described in 2.2.1.
3.4.5 For electric dryers—the total kilowatt-hours of electric energy, E
t
, consumed during the test described in 3.3.
3.4.6 For gas dryers:
3.4.6.1 Total kilowatt-hours of electrical energy, E
te
, consumed during the test described in 3.3.
3.4.6.2 Cubic feet of gas per cycle, E
tg
, consumed during the test described in 3.3.
3.4.6.3 Correct the gas heating value, GEF, as measured in 2.3.2.1 and 2.3.2.2, to standard pressure and temperature conditions in accordance with U.S. Bureau of Standards, circular C417, 1938.
3.5
Test for automatic termination field use factor.
The field use factor for automatic termination can be claimed for those dryers which meet the requirements for automatic termination control, defined in 1.4.
3.6
Standby mode and off mode power.
Connect the clothes dryer to a watt meter as specified in section 2.4.7 of this appendix. Establish the testing conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix.
3.6.1 Perform standby mode and off mode testing after completion of an active mode drying cycle included as part of the test cycle; after removing the test load; without changing the control panel settings used for the active mode drying cycle; with the door closed; and without disconnecting the electrical energy supply to the clothes dryer between completion of the active mode drying cycle and the start of standby mode and off mode testing.
3.6.2 For clothes dryers that take some time to automatically enter a stable inactive mode or off mode state from a higher power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 of IEC 62301, allow sufficient time for the clothes dryer to automatically reach the default inactive/off mode state before proceeding with the test measurement.
3.6.3 Once the stable inactive/off mode state has been reached, measure and record the default inactive/off mode power, P
default
, in watts, following the test procedure for the sampling method specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301.
3.6.4 For a clothes dryer with a switch (or other means) that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode state than the default inactive/off mode state measured in section 3.6.3 of this appendix, after performing the measurement in section 3.6.3 of this appendix, activate the switch (or other means) to the position resulting in the lowest power consumption and repeat the measurement procedure described in section 3.6.3 of this appendix. Measure and record the lowest inactive/off mode power, P
lowest
, in watts.

# 4. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
4.1
Total per-cycle electric dryer energy consumption.
Calculate the total electric dryer energy consumption per cycle, E
ce
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
ce
= [53.5/(IMC − FMC)] × E
t
× field use,
Where:
E
t
= the energy recorded in section 3.4.5 of this appendix.
53.5 = an experimentally established value for the percent reduction in the moisture content of the test load during a laboratory test cycle expressed as a percent.
field use = field use factor,
= 1.18 for clothes dryers with time termination control systems only without any automatic termination control functions.
= 1.04 for clothes dryers with automatic control systems that meet the requirements of the definition for automatic termination control in section 1.4 of this appendix, including those that also have a supplementary timer control, or that may also be manually controlled.
IMC = the moisture content of the wet test load as recorded in section 3.4.2 of this appendix.
FMC = the moisture content of the dry test load as recorded in section 3.4.3 of this appendix.
4.2
Per-cycle gas dryer electrical energy consumption.
Calculate the gas dryer electrical energy consumption per cycle, E
ge
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
ge
= [53.5/(IMC − FMC)] × E
te
× field use,
Where:
E
te
= the energy recorded in section 3.4.6.1 of this appendix.
field use, 53.5, MC
w
, and MC
d
as defined in section 4.1 of this appendix.
4.3
Per-cycle gas dryer gas energy consumption.
Calculate the gas dryer gas energy consumption per cycle, E
gg
, expressed in Btus per cycle and defined as:
E
gg
= [53.5/(MC
w
− MC
d
)] × E
tg
× field use × GEF
Where:
E
tg
= the energy recorded in section 3.4.6.2 of this appendix.
GEF = corrected gas heat value (Btu per cubic feet) as defined in section 3.4.6.3 of this appendix.
field use, 53.5, IMC, and FMC as defined in section 4.1 of this appendix.
4.4
Total per-cycle gas dryer energy consumption expressed in kilowatt-hours.
Calculate the total gas dryer energy consumption per cycle, E
cg
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
cg
= E
ge
+ (E
gg
/3412 Btu/kWh)
Where:
E
ge
as defined in 4.2
E
gg
as defined in 4.3
4.5
Per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption.
Calculate the clothes dryer per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption, E
TSO
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
TSO
= [(P
default
× S
default
) + (P
lowest
× S
lowest
)] × K/283
Where:
P
default
= Default inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.6.3 of this appendix.
P
lowest
= Lowest inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.6.4 of this appendix for clothes dryer with a switch (or other means) that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode than the default inactive/off mode; otherwise, P
lowest
=0.
S
default
= Annual hours in default inactive/off mode, defined as 8,620 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 4,310.
S
lowest
= Annual hours in lowest-power inactive/off mode, defined as 0 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 4,310.
K = Conversion factor of watt-hours to kilowatt-hours = 0.001.
283 = Representative average number of clothes dryer cycles in a year.
8,620 = Combined annual hours for inactive and off mode.
4,310 = One-half of the combined annual hours for inactive and off mode.
4.6
Per-cycle combined total energy consumption expressed in kilowatt-hours.
Calculate the per-cycle combined total energy consumption, E
CC
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined for an electric clothes dryer as:
E
CC
= E
ce
+ E
TSO
Where:
E
ce
= the energy recorded in section 4.1 of this appendix, and
E
TSO
= the energy recorded in section 4.5 of this appendix, and defined for a gas clothes dryer as:
E
CC
= E
cg
+ E
TSO
Where:
E
cg
= the energy recorded in section 4.4 of this appendix, and
E
TSO
= the energy recorded in section 4.5 of this appendix.
4.7
Combined Energy Factor in pounds per kilowatt-hour.
Calculate the combined energy factor, CEF, expressed in pounds per kilowatt-hour and defined as:
CEF = W
bonedry
/E
CC
Where:
W
bonedry
= the bone dry test load weight 3.4.1, and
E
CC
= the energy recorded in 4.6
[76 FR 1032, Jan. 6, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 49645, Aug. 14, 2013; 86 FR 56639, Oct. 8, 2021; 89 FR 81305, Oct. 8, 2024]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. D2

# Appendix D2 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers

# Note:
The procedures in either appendix D1 to this subpart or this appendix must be used to determine compliance with the energy conservation standards for clothes dryers provided at § 430.32(h)(3).
Manufacturers must use a single appendix for all representations, including certifications of compliance, and may not use appendix D1 to this subpart for certain representations and this appendix for other representations. The procedures in this appendix must be used to determine compliance with the energy conservation standards for clothes dryers provided at § 430.32(h)(4). Manufacturers may use this appendix to certify compliance with the clothes dryer standards provided at § 430.32(h)(4) prior to the applicable compliance date for those standards.
Per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption in section 4.5 of this appendix is calculated using the value for the annual representative average number of clothes dryer cycles in a year specified in section 4.5.1(a) of this appendix until March 1, 2028. Beginning on March 1, 2028, per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption in section 4.5 of this appendix is calculated using the value for the annual representative average number of clothes dryer cycles in a year specified in section 4.5.1(b) of this appendix.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3 the entire standard for AHAM HLD-1 and IEC 62301, however, only enumerated provisions of those documents are applicable to this appendix. In cases where there is a conflict between any industry standard(s) and this appendix, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the industry standard(s).
(1) AHAM HLD-1:
(i) Section 3.3.5.1 “Standard Simulator” as referenced in sections 2.1.2 through 2.1.3 of this appendix.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) IEC 62301:
(i) Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 as referenced in section 3.5.2 of this appendix.
(ii) Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 “Sampling Method” as referenced in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

# 1. Definitions
1.1 “Active mode” means a mode in which the clothes dryer is connected to a main power source, has been activated and is performing the main function of tumbling the clothing with or without heated or unheated forced air circulation to remove moisture from the clothing, remove wrinkles or prevent wrinkling of the clothing, or both.
1.2 “AHAM” means the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.
1.3 “AHAM HLD-1” means the test standard published by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, titled “Household Tumble Type Clothes Dryers,” ANSI-approved June 11, 2010, ANSI/AHAM HLD-1-2010.
1.4 “Automatic termination control” means a dryer control system with a sensor which monitors either the dryer load temperature or its moisture content and with a controller which automatically terminates the drying process. A mark, detent, or other visual indicator or detent which indicates a preferred automatic termination control setting must be present if the dryer is to be
classified as having an “automatic termination control.” A mark is a visible single control setting on one or more dryer controls.
1.5 “Automatic termination control dryer” means a clothes dryer which can be preset to carry out at least one sequence of operations to be terminated by means of a system assessing, directly or indirectly, the moisture content of the load. An automatic termination control dryer with supplementary timer or that may also be manually controlled shall be tested as an automatic termination control dryer.
1.6 “Bone dry” means a condition of a load of test cloths which has been dried in a dryer at maximum temperature for a minimum of 10 minutes, removed, and weighed before cool down, and then dried again for 10-minute periods until the final weight change of the load is 1 percent or less.
1.7 “Compact” or “compact size” means a clothes dryer with a drum capacity of less than 4.4 cubic feet.
1.8 “Cool down” means that portion of the clothes drying cycle when the added gas or electric heat is terminated and the clothes continue to tumble and dry within the drum.
1.9 “Cycle” means a sequence of operation of a clothes dryer which performs a clothes drying operation, and may include variations or combinations of the functions of heating, tumbling, and drying.
1.10 “Drum capacity” means the volume of the drying drum in cubic feet.
1.11 “Final moisture content” (“FMC”) means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the dry test load (
i.e.,
after completion of the drying cycle) to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.
1.12 “IEC 62301” (Second Edition) means the test standard published by the International Electrotechnical Commission (“IEC”) titled “Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power,” Publication 62301 (Edition 2.0 2011-01) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
1.13 “Initial moisture content” (“IMC”) means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the damp test load (
i.e.,
prior to completion of the drying cycle) to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.
1.14 “Inactive mode” means a standby mode that facilitates the activation of active mode by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer, or that provides continuous status display.
1.15 “Moisture content” means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the test load to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.
1.16 “Off mode” means a mode in which the clothes dryer is connected to a main power source and is not providing any active or standby mode function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time. An indicator that only shows the user that the product is in the off position is included within the classification of an off mode.
1.17 “Standard size” means a clothes dryer with a drum capacity of 4.4 cubic feet or greater.
1.18 “Standby mode” means any product modes where the energy using product is connected to a mains power source and offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions which may persist for an indefinite time:
(a) To facilitate the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer.
(b) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions. A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that provides regular scheduled tasks (
e.g.,
switching) and that operates on a continuous basis.
1.19 “Timer dryer” means a clothes dryer that can be preset to carry out at least one operation to be terminated by a timer, but may also be manually controlled, and does not include any automatic termination function.
1.20 “Vented clothes dryer” means a clothes dryer that exhausts the evaporated moisture from the cabinet.
1.21 “Ventless clothes dryer” means a clothes dryer that uses a closed-loop system with an internal condenser to remove the evaporated moisture from the heated air. The moist air is not discharged from the cabinet.

# 2. Testing Conditions
2.1
Installation.
2.1.1
All clothes dryers.
For both vented clothes dryers and ventless clothes dryers, install the clothes dryer in accordance with manufacturer's instructions as shipped with the unit. If the manufacturer's instructions do not specify the installation requirements for a certain component, it shall be tested in the as-shipped condition. Where the manufacturer gives the option to use the dryer both with and without a duct, the dryer shall be tested without the exhaust simulator described in section 3.3.5.1 of AHAM HLD-1 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). All external joints should be taped to avoid air leakage. For drying testing, disconnect all lights, such as task lights, that do not provide any information related to the drying process on the clothes dryer and that do not consume more than 10 watts during the clothes dryer test cycle. Control setting indicator lights showing the cycle progression, temperature or dryness settings, or other cycle functions that cannot be turned off during the test cycle shall not be disconnected during the active mode test cycle.
For standby and off mode testing, the clothes dryer shall also be installed in accordance with section 5, paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), disregarding the provisions regarding batteries and the determination, classification, and testing of relevant modes. For standby and off mode testing, all lighting systems shall remain connected.
2.1.2
Vented clothes dryers.
For vented clothes dryers, the dryer exhaust shall be restricted by adding the AHAM exhaust simulator described in section 3.3.5.1 of AHAM HLD-1.
2.1.3
Ventless clothes dryers.
For ventless clothes dryers, the dryer shall be tested without the AHAM exhaust simulator. If the manufacturer gives the option to use a ventless clothes dryer, with or without a condensation box, the dryer shall be tested with the condensation box installed. For ventless clothes dryers, the condenser unit of the dryer must remain in place and not be taken out of the dryer for any reason between tests.
2.2
Ambient temperature and humidity.
2.2.1 For drying testing, maintain the room ambient air temperature at 75 ±3 F and the room relative humidity at 50 percent ±10 percent relative humidity.
2.2.2 For standby and off mode testing, maintain room ambient air temperature conditions as specified in section 4, paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.3
Energy supply.
2.3.1
Electrical supply.
Maintain the electrical supply at the clothes dryer terminal block within 1 percent of 120/240 or 120/208Y or 120 volts as applicable to the particular terminal block wiring system and within 1 percent of the nameplate frequency as specified by the manufacturer. If the dryer has a dual voltage conversion capability, conduct the test at the highest voltage specified by the manufacturer.
2.3.1.1
Supply voltage waveform.
For the clothes dryer standby mode and off mode testing, maintain the electrical supply voltage waveform indicated in section 4, paragraph 4.3.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the total harmonic content during the test measurement period, it is acceptable to measure and record the total harmonic content immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.3.2
Gas supply.
2.3.2.1
Natural gas supply.
Maintain the gas supply to the clothes dryer immediately ahead of all controls at a pressure of 7 to 10 inches of water column. The natural gas supplied should have a heating value of approximately 1,025 Btus per standard cubic foot. The actual heating value, H
n
2, in Btus per standard cubic foot, for the natural gas to be used in the test shall be obtained either from measurements using a standard continuous flow calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix or by the purchase of bottled natural gas whose Btu rating is certified to be at least as accurate a rating as could be obtained from measurements with a standard continuous flow calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix.
2.3.2.2
Propane gas supply.
Maintain the gas supply to the clothes dryer immediately ahead of all controls at a pressure of 11 to 13 inches of water column. The propane gas supplied should have a heating value of approximately 2,500 Btus per standard cubic foot. The actual heating value, H
p
, in Btus per standard cubic foot, for the propane gas to be used in the test shall be obtained either from measurements using a standard continuous flow calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix or by the purchase of bottled gas whose Btu rating is certified to be at least as accurate a rating as could be obtained from measurement with a standard continuous calorimeter as described in section 2.4.6 of this appendix.
2.3.2.3
Hourly Btu Rating.
Maintain the hourly Btu rating of the burner within ±5 percent of the rating specified by the manufacturer. If the hourly Btu rating of the burner cannot be maintained within ±5 percent of the rating specified by the manufacturer, make adjustments in the following order until an hourly Btu rating of the burner within ±5 percent of the rating specified by the manufacturer is achieved:
(1) Modify the gas inlet supply pressure within the allowable range specified in section 2.3.2.1 or 2.3.2.2 of this appendix, as applicable;
(2) If the clothes dryer is equipped with a gas pressure regulator, modify the outlet pressure of the gas pressure regulator within ±10 percent of the value recommended by the manufacturer in the installation manual, on the nameplate sticker, or wherever the manufacturer makes such a recommendation for the basic model; and
(3) Modify the orifice as necessary to achieve the required hourly Btu rating.
2.4
Instrumentation.
Perform all test measurements using the following instruments as appropriate.
2.4.1
Weighing scales.
2.4.1.1
Weighing scale for test cloth.
The scale shall have a range of 0 to a maximum of 60 pounds with a resolution of at least 0.001 pounds and a maximum error no greater than 0.1 percent of any measured value within the range of 3 to 15 pounds.
2.4.1.2
Weighing scale for drum capacity measurements.
The scale should have a range of 0 to a maximum of 600 pounds with resolution of 0.50 pounds and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.4.2
Kilowatt-hour meter.
The kilowatt-hour meter shall have a resolution of 0.001 kilowatt-hours and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.4.3
Gas meter.
The gas meter shall have a resolution of 0.001 cubic feet and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.4.4
Dry and wet bulb psychrometer.
The dry and wet bulb psychrometer shall have an error no greater than ±1 °F. A relative humidity meter with a maximum error tolerance expressed in °F equivalent to the requirements for the dry and wet bulb psychrometer or with a maximum error tolerance of ±2 percent relative humidity would be acceptable for measuring the ambient humidity.
2.4.5
Temperature.
The temperature sensor shall have an error no greater than ±1 °F.
2.4.6
Standard Continuous Flow Calorimeter.
The calorimeter shall have an operating range of 750 to 3,500 Btu per cubic foot. The maximum error of the basic calorimeter shall be no greater than 0.2 percent of the actual heating value of the gas used in the test. The indicator readout shall have a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value within the operating range and a resolution of 0.2 percent of the full-scale reading of the indicator instrument.
2.4.7
Standby mode and off mode watt meter.
The watt meter used to measure standby mode and off mode power consumption shall meet the requirements specified in section 4, paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the crest factor, power factor, or maximum current ratio during the test measurement period, it is acceptable to measure the crest factor, power factor, and maximum current ratio immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.5
Lint trap.
Clean the lint trap thoroughly before each test run.
2.6
Test Cloths.
2.6.1
Energy test cloth.
The energy test cloth shall be clean and consist of the following:
(a) Pure finished bleached cloth, made with a momie or granite weave, which is a blended fabric of 50-percent cotton and 50-percent polyester and weighs within + 10 percent of 5.75 ounces per square yard after test cloth preconditioning, and has 65 ends on the warp and 57 picks on the fill. The individual warp and fill yarns are a blend of 50-percent cotton and 50-percent polyester fibers.
(b) Cloth material that is 24 inches by 36 inches and has been hemmed to 22 inches by 34 inches before washing. The maximum shrinkage after five washes shall not be more than 4 percent on the length and width.
(c) The number of test runs on the same energy test cloth shall not exceed 25 runs.
2.6.2
Energy stuffer cloths.
The energy stuffer cloths shall be made from energy test cloth material, and shall consist of pieces of material that are 12 inches by 12 inches and have been hemmed to 10 inches by 10 inches before washing. The maximum shrinkage after five washes shall not be more than 4 percent on the length and width. The number of test runs on the same energy stuffer cloth shall not exceed 25 runs after test cloth preconditioning.
2.6.3
Test Cloth Preconditioning.
A new test cloth load and energy stuffer cloths shall be treated as follows:
(1) Bone dry the load to a weight change of ±1 percent, or less, as prescribed in section 1.6 of this appendix.
(2) Place the test cloth load in a standard clothes washer set at the maximum water fill level. Wash the load for 10 minutes in soft water (17 parts per million hardness or less), using 60.8 grams of AHAM standard test detergent Formula 3. Wash water temperature should be maintained at 140 °F ±5 °F (60 °C ±2.7 °C). Rinse water temperature is to be controlled at 100 °F ±5 °F (37.7 °C ±2.7 °C).
(3) Rinse the load again at the same water temperature.
(4) Bone dry the load as prescribed in section 1.6 of this appendix and weigh the load.
(5) This procedure is repeated until there is a weight change of 1 percent or less.
(6) A final cycle is to be a hot water wash with no detergent, followed by two warm water rinses.
2.7
Test loads.
2.7.1
Load size.
Determine the load size for the unit under test, according to Table 1 of this section.
Table 1—Test Loads
Unit under test
Test load
(bone dry weight)
Standard size clothes dryer
8.45 pounds ± .085 pounds.
Compact size clothes dryer
3.00 pounds ± .03 pounds.
Each test load must consist of energy test cloths and no more than five energy stuffer cloths.
2.7.2
Test load preparation.
Dampen the load by agitating it in water whose temperature is 60 °F ±5 °F and consists of 0 to 17 parts per million hardness for approximately 2 minutes to saturate the fabric. Then, extract water from the wet test load by spinning the load until the moisture content of the load is between 52.5 and 57.5 percent of the bone-dry weight of the test load. Make a final mass adjustment, such that the moisture content is 57.5 percent ±0.33 percent by adding water uniformly distributed among all of the test cloths in a very fine spray using a spray bottle.
2.7.3
Method of loading.
Load the energy test cloths by grasping them in the center,
shaking them to hang loosely, and then dropping them in the dryer at random.
2.8
Clothes dryer preconditioning.
2.8.1
Vented clothes dryers.
For vented clothes dryers, before any test cycle, operate the dryer without a test load in the non-heat mode for 15 minutes or until the discharge air temperature is varying less than 1 °F for 10 minutes—whichever is longer—in the test installation location with the ambient conditions within the specified test condition tolerances of section 2.2 of this appendix.
2.8.2
Ventless clothes dryers.
For ventless clothes dryers, before any test cycle, the steady-state machine temperature must be equal to ambient room temperature described in 2.2.1. This may be done by leaving the machine at ambient room conditions for at least 12 hours between tests.

# 3. Test Procedures and Measurements
3.1
Drum Capacity.
Measure the drum capacity by sealing all openings in the drum except the loading port with a plastic bag, and ensuring that all corners and depressions are filled and that there are no extrusions of the plastic bag through any openings in the interior of the drum. Support the dryer's rear drum surface on a platform scale to prevent deflection of the drum surface, and record the weight of the empty dryer. Fill the drum with water to a level determined by the intersection of the door plane and the loading port (
i.e.,
the uppermost edge of the drum that is in contact with the door seal). Record the temperature of the water and then the weight of the dryer with the added water and then determine the mass of the water in pounds. Add the appropriate volume to account for any space in the drum interior not measured by water fill (e.g., the space above the uppermost edge of the drum within a curved door) and subtract the appropriate volume to account for the space that is measured by water fill but cannot be used when the door is closed (e.g., space occupied by the door when closed). The drum capacity is calculated to the nearest 0.1 cubic foot as follows:
C=
w/d ±volume adjustment
C
= capacity in cubic feet.
w
= mass of water in pounds.
d
= density of water at the measured temperature in pounds per cubic foot.
3.2
Dryer Loading.
Load the dryer as specified in 2.7.
3.3
Test cycle.
3.3.1
Timer dryers.
For timer dryers, operate the clothes dryer at the maximum temperature setting and, if equipped with a timer, at the maximum time setting. Any other optional cycle settings that do not affect the temperature or time settings shall be tested in the as-shipped position, except that if the clothes dryer has network capabilities, the network settings must be disabled throughout testing if such settings can be disabled by the end-user and the product's user manual provides instructions on how to do so. If the network settings cannot be disabled by the end-user, or the product's user manual does not provide instruction for disabling network settings, then the unit must be tested with the network settings in the factory default configuration for the test cycle. If the clothes dryer does not have a separate temperature setting selection on the control panel, the maximum time setting should be used for the drying test cycle. Dry the load until the moisture content of the test load is between 1 and 2.5 percent of the bone-dry weight of the test load, at which point the test cycle is stopped, but do not permit the dryer to advance into cool down. If required, reset the timer to increase the length of the drying cycle. After stopping the test cycle, remove and weigh the test load within 5 minutes following termination of the test cycle. The clothes dryer shall not be stopped intermittently in the middle of the test cycle for any reason. Record the data specified by section 3.4 of this appendix. If the dryer automatically stops during a cycle because the condensation box is full of water, the test is stopped, and the test run is invalid, in which case the condensation box shall be emptied and the test re-run from the beginning. For ventless clothes dryers, during the time between two cycles, the door of the dryer shall be closed except for loading and unloading.
3.3.2
Automatic termination control dryers.
For automatic termination control dryers, a “normal” program shall be selected for the test cycle. For dryers that do not have a “normal” program, the cycle recommended by the manufacturer for drying cotton or linen clothes shall be selected. Where the drying temperature setting can be chosen independently of the program, it shall be set to the maximum. Where the dryness level setting can be chosen independently of the program, it shall be set to the “normal” or “medium” dryness level setting. If such designation is not provided, then the dryness level shall be set at the mid-point between the minimum and maximum settings. If an even number of discrete settings are provided, use the next-highest setting above the midpoint, in the direction of the maximum dryness setting or next-lowest setting below the midpoint, in the direction of the minimum dryness setting. Any other optional cycle settings that do not affect the program, temperature or dryness settings shall be tested in the as-shipped position, except that if the clothes dryer has network capabilities, the network settings must be disabled throughout testing if such settings can be disabled by the end-user and the product's user manual provides instructions on how to do so. If the network settings cannot be disabled by the end-user, or the product's user
manual does not provide instruction for disabling network settings, then the unit must be tested with the network settings in the factory default configuration for the test cycle.
Operate the clothes dryer until the completion of the programmed cycle, including the cool down period. The cycle shall be considered complete when the dryer indicates to the user that the cycle has finished (by means of a display, indicator light, audible signal, or other signal) and the heater and drum/fan motor shuts off for the final time. If the clothes dryer is equipped with a wrinkle prevention mode (
i.e.,
that continuously or intermittently tumbles the clothes dryer drum after the clothes dryer indicates to the user that the cycle has finished) that is activated by default in the as-shipped position or if manufacturers' instructions specify that the feature is recommended to be activated for normal use, the cycle shall be considered complete after the end of the wrinkle prevention mode. After the completion of the test cycle, remove and weigh the test load within 5 minutes following termination of the test cycle. Record the data specified in section 3.4 of this appendix. If the final moisture content is greater than 2 percent, the results from the test are invalid and a second run must be conducted. Conduct the second run of the test on the unit using the highest dryness level setting. If, on this second run, the dryer does not achieve a final moisture content of 2 percent or lower, the dryer has not sufficiently dried the clothes and the test results may not be used for certification of compliance with energy conservation standards. If the dryer automatically stops during a cycle because the condensation box is full of water, the test is stopped, and the test run is invalid, in which case the condensation box shall be emptied and the test re-run from the beginning. For ventless clothes dryers, during the time between two cycles, the door of the dryer shall be closed except for loading and unloading.
3.4
Data recording.
Record for each test cycle:
3.4.1 Bone-dry weight of the test load, W
bonedry
, as described in section 2.7.1 of this appendix.
3.4.2 Moisture content of the wet test load before the test, IMC, as described in section 2.7.2 of this appendix.
3.4.3 Moisture content of the dry test load obtained after the test, FMC, as described in section 3.3 of this appendix.
3.4.4 Test room conditions, temperature, and percent relative humidity described in 2.2.1.
3.4.5 For electric dryers—the total kilowatt-hours of electric energy, E
t
, consumed during the test described in 3.3.
3.4.6 For gas dryers:
3.4.6.1 Total kilowatt-hours of electrical energy, E
te
, consumed during the test described in 3.3.
3.4.6.2 Cubic feet of gas per cycle, E
tg
, consumed during the test described in 3.3.
3.4.6.3 Correct the gas heating value, GEF, as measured in 2.3.2.1 and 2.3.2.2, to standard pressure and temperature conditions in accordance with U.S. Bureau of Standards, circular C417, 1938.
3.4.7 The cycle settings selected, in accordance with section 3.3.2 of this appendix, for the automatic termination control dryer test.
3.5
Standby mode and off mode power.
Connect the clothes dryer to a watt meter as specified in section 2.4.7 of this appendix. Establish the testing conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix.
3.5.1 Perform standby mode and off mode testing after completion of an active mode drying cycle included as part of the test cycle; after removing the test load; without changing the control panel settings used for the active mode drying cycle; with the door closed; and without disconnecting the electrical energy supply to the clothes dryer between completion of the active mode drying cycle and the start of standby mode and off mode testing.
3.5.2 For clothes dryers that take some time to automatically enter a stable inactive mode or off mode state from a higher power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 of IEC 62301, allow sufficient time for the clothes dryer to automatically reach the default inactive/off mode state before proceeding with the test measurement.
3.5.3 Once the stable inactive/off mode state has been reached, measure and record the default inactive/off mode power, P
default
, in watts, following the test procedure for the sampling method specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301.
3.5.4 For a clothes dryer with a switch (or other means) that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode state than the default inactive/off mode state measured in section 3.5.3 of this appendix, after performing the measurement in section 3.5.3 of this appendix, activate the switch (or other means) to the position resulting in the lowest power consumption and repeat the measurement procedure described in section 3.5.3 of this appendix. Measure and record the lowest inactive/off mode power, P
lowest
, in watts.

# 4. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
4.1
Total per-cycle electric dryer energy consumption.
Calculate the total per-cycle electric dryer energy consumption required to achieve a final moisture content of 2 percent or less, E
ce,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
ce
= E
t
,
for automatic termination control dryers, and,
E
ce
= [55.5/(IMC−FMC)] × E
t
× field use,
for timer dryers
Where:
55.5 = an experimentally established value for the percent reduction in the moisture content of the test load during a laboratory test cycle expressed as a percent.
E
t
= the energy recorded in section 3.4.5 of this appendix.
field use = 1.18, the field use factor for clothes dryers with time termination control systems only without any automatic termination control functions.
IMC = the moisture content of the wet test load as recorded in section 3.4.2 of this appendix.
FMC = the moisture content of the dry test load as recorded in section 3.4.3 of this appendix.
4.2
Per-cycle gas dryer electrical energy consumption.
Calculate the per-cycle gas dryer electrical energy consumption required to achieve a final moisture content of 2 percent or less, E
ge,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
ge
= E
te
,
for automatic termination control dryers, and,
E
ge
= [55.5/(IMC−FMC)] × E
te
× field use,
for timer dryers
Where:
E
te
= the energy recorded in section 3.4.6.1 of this appendix.
field use, 55.5, IMC, and FMC as defined in section 4.1 of this appendix.
4.3
Per-cycle gas dryer gas energy consumption.
Calculate the per-cycle gas dryer gas energy consumption required to achieve a final moisture content of 2 percent or less, E
gg
, expressed in Btus per cycle and defined as:
E
gg
= E
tg
× GEF
for automatic termination control dryers, and,
E
gg
= [55.5/(IMC−FMC)] × E
tg
× field use × GEF
for timer dryers
Where:
E
tg
= the energy recorded in section 3.4.6.2 of this appendix.
GEF = corrected gas heat value (Btu per cubic foot) as defined in section 3.4.6.3 of this appendix,
field use, 55.5, IMC, and FMC as defined in section 4.1 of this appendix.
4.4
Total per-cycle gas dryer energy consumption expressed in kilowatt-hours.
Calculate the total per-cycle gas dryer energy consumption required to achieve a final moisture content of 2 percent or less, E
cg
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
cg
= E
ge
+ (E
gg
/3412 Btu/kWh)
Where:
E
ge
= the energy calculated in section 4.2 of this appendix
E
gg
= the energy calculated in section 4.3 of this appendix
4.5
Per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption.
Calculate the clothes dryer per-cycle standby mode and off mode energy consumption, E
TSO
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
TSO
= [(P
default
× S
default
) + (P
lowest
× S
lowest
)] × K/C
annual
Where:
P
default
= Default inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.
P
lowest
= Lowest inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.5.4 of this appendix for clothes dryer with a switch (or other means) that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode than the default inactive/off mode; otherwise, P
lowest
=0.
S
default
= Annual hours in default inactive/off mode, defined as 8,620 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 4,310.
S
lowest
= Annual hours in lowest-power inactive/off mode, defined as 0 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 4,310.
K = Conversion factor of watt-hours to kilowatt-hours = 0.001.
C
annual
= Representative average number of clothes dryer cycles in a year as specified in section 4.5.1.
8,620 = Combined annual hours for inactive and off mode.
4,310 = One-half of the combined annual hours for inactive and off mode.
4.5.1
Representative average number of clothes dryer cycles in a year.
Per the Introductory Note:
(1) C
annual
= 283
(2) C
annual
= 236
4.6
Per-cycle combined total energy consumption expressed in kilowatt-hours.
Calculate the per-cycle combined total energy consumption, E
CC
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined for an electric clothes dryer as:
E
CC
= E
ce
+ E
TSO
Where:
E
ce
= the energy calculated in section 4.1 of this appendix, and
E
TSO
= the energy calculated in section 4.5 of this appendix, and defined for a gas clothes dryer as:
E
CC
= E
cg
+ E
TSO
Where:
E
cg
= the energy calculated in section 4.4 of this appendix, and
E
TSO
= the energy calculated in section 4.5 of this appendix.
4.7
Combined Energy Factor in pounds per kilowatt-hour.
Calculate the combined energy factor, CEF, expressed in pounds per kilowatt-hour and defined as:
CEF = W
bonedry
/E
CC
Where:
W
bonedry
= the bone dry test load weight recorded in section 3.4.1 of this appendix, and
E
CC
= the energy calculated in section 4.6 of this appendix.
[78 FR 49647, Aug. 14, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 56641, Oct. 8, 2021; 89 FR 81305, Oct. 8, 2024]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Water Heaters
Note:
Prior to December 18, 2023, representations with respect to the energy use or efficiency of consumer water heaters covered by this test method, including compliance certifications, must be based on testing conducted in accordance with either this appendix as it now appears or appendix E as it appeared at 10 CFR part 430, subpart B revised as of January 1, 2021. Prior to June 15, 2024, representations with respect to the energy use or efficiency of residential-duty commercial water heaters covered by this test method, including compliance certifications, must be based on testing conducted in accordance with either this appendix as it now appears or appendix E as it appeared at 10 CFR part 430, subpart B revised as of January 1, 2021.
On and after December 18, 2023, representations with respect to energy use or efficiency of consumer water heaters covered by this test method, including compliance certifications, must be based on testing conducted in accordance with this appendix, except as described in the paragraphs that follow. On and after June 15, 2024, representations with respect to energy use or efficiency of residential-duty commercial water heaters covered by this test method, including compliance certifications, must be based on testing conducted in accordance with this appendix, except as follows.
Prior to May 6, 2029, consumer water heaters subject to section 4.10 of this appendix may optionally apply the requirements of section 4.10 of this appendix. For residential-duty commercial water heaters subject to section 4.10 of this appendix the requirements of section 4.10 of this appendix may optionally be applied prior to the compliance date of any final rule reviewing potential amended energy conservation standards for this equipment published after June 21, 2023.
Prior to May 6, 2029, consumer water heaters subject to section 5.1.2 of this appendix (as specified at § 429.17(a)(1)(ii)(E) of this chapter) may optionally apply the requirements of section 5.1.2 of this appendix in lieu of the requirements in section 5.1.1 of this appendix.
On or after May 6, 2029, representations with respect to energy use or efficiency of consumer water heaters subject to sections 4.10 and 5.1.2 of this appendix must be based on testing conducted in accordance with those provisions.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference.
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3 the entire standard for: ASHRAE 41.1-2020; ASHRAE 41.6-2014; ASHRAE 118.2-2022; ASTM D2156-09 (R2018); and ASTM E97-1987. However, only enumerated provisions of ASHRAE 118.2-2022 are applicable to this appendix, as follows:
0.1 ASHRAE 118.2-2022
(a) Annex B—Gas Heating Value Correction Factor;
(b) [Reserved]
0.2 [Reserved]

# 1. Definitions.
1.1.
Cut-in
means the time when or water temperature at which a water heater control or thermostat acts to increase the energy or fuel input to the heating elements, compressor, or burner.
1.2.
Cut-out
means the time when or water temperature at which a water heater control or thermostat acts to reduce to a minimum the energy or fuel input to the heating elements, compressor, or burner.
1.3.
Design Power Rating
means the power rating or input rate that a water heater manufacturer assigns to a particular design of water heater and that is included on the nameplate of the water heater, expressed in kilowatts or Btu (kJ) per hour as appropriate. For modulating water heaters, the design power rating is the maximum power rating or input rate that is specified by the manufacturer on the nameplate of the water heater.
1.4.
Draw Cluster
means a collection of water draws initiated during the 24-hour simulated-use test during which no successive draws are separated by more than 2 hours.
1.5.
First-Hour Rating
means an estimate of the maximum volume of “hot” water that a non-flow activated water heater can supply within an hour that begins with the water heater fully heated (
i.e.,
with all thermostats satisfied).
1.6.
Flow-Activated
describes an operational scheme in which a water heater initiates and terminates heating based on sensing flow.
1.7.
Heat Trap
means a device that can be integrally connected or independently attached to the hot and/or cold water pipe connections of a water heater such that the device will develop a thermal or mechanical seal to minimize the recirculation of water due to thermal convection between the water heater tank and its connecting pipes.
1.8.
Maximum GPM (L/min) Rating
means the maximum gallons per minute (liters per minute) of hot water that can be supplied by a flow-activated water heater when tested in accordance with section 5.3.2 of this appendix.
1.9.
Modulating Water Heater
means a water heater that can automatically vary its power or input rate from the minimum to the maximum power or input rate specified on the nameplate of the water heater by the manufacturer.
1.10.
Rated Storage Volume
means the water storage capacity of a water heater, in gallons (liters), as certified by the manufacturer pursuant to 10 CFR part 429.
1.11.
Recovery Efficiency
means the ratio of energy delivered to the water to the energy content of the fuel consumed by the water heater.
1.12.
Recovery Period
means the time when the main burner of a water heater with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons is raising the temperature of the stored water.
1.13.
Split-system heat pump water heater
means a heat pump-type water heater in which at least the compressor, which may be installed outdoors, is separate from the storage tank.
1.14.
Standby
means the time, in hours, during which water is not being withdrawn from the water heater.
1.15.
Symbol Usage.
The following identity relationships are provided to help clarify the symbology used throughout this procedure:
C
p
—specific heat of water
E
annual
—annual energy consumption of a water heater
E
annual,e
—annual electrical energy consumption of a water heater
E
annual,f
—annual fossil-fuel energy consumption of a water heater
E
X
—energy efficiency of a heat pump-type water heater when the 24-hour simulated use test is optionally conducted at any of the additional air temperature conditions as specified in section 2.8 of this appendix, where the subscript “X” corresponds to the dry-bulb temperature at which the test is conducted.
F
hr
—first-hour rating of a non-flow activated water heater
F
max
—maximum GPM (L/min) rating of a flow-activated water heater
i
—a subscript to indicate the draw number during a test
k
V
—storage tank volume scaling ratio for water heaters with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons
M
del,i
—mass of water removed during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test
M
in,i
—mass of water entering the water heater during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test
M*
del,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, mass of water removed during the
i
th draw during the first-hour rating test
M*
in,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, mass of water entering the water heater during the
i
th draw during the first-hour rating test
M
del,10m
—for flow-activated water heaters, mass of water removed continuously during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test
M
in,10m
—for flow-activated water heaters, mass of water entering the water heater continuously during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test
n
—for non-flow activated water heaters, total number of draws during the first-hour rating test
N
—total number of draws during the 24-hour simulated-use test
N
r
—number of draws from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the end to the first recovery period as described in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
Q
—total fossil fuel and/or electric energy consumed during the entire 24-hour simulated-use test
Q
d
—daily water heating energy consumption adjusted for net change in internal energy
Q
da
—Q
d
with adjustment for variation of tank to ambient air temperature difference from nominal value
Q
dm
—overall adjusted daily water heating energy consumption including Q
da
and Q
HWD
Q
e
—total electrical energy used during the 24-hour simulated-use test
Q
f
—total fossil fuel energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test
Q
hr
—hourly standby losses of a water heater with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons
Q
HW
—daily energy consumption to heat water at the measured average temperature rise across the water heater
Q
HW,67 °F
—daily energy consumption to heat quantity of water removed during test over a temperature rise of 67 °F (37.3 °C)
Q
HWD
—adjustment to daily energy consumption, Q
HW
, due to variation of the temperature rise across the water heater not equal to the nominal value of 67 °F (37.3 °C)
Q
r
—energy consumption of water heater from the beginning of the test to the end of the first recovery period
Q
stby
—total energy consumed during the standby time interval τ
stby,1
, as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
Q
su,0
—cumulative energy consumption, including all fossil fuel and electrical energy
use, of the water heater from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the start of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
Q
su,f
—cumulative energy consumption, including all fossil fuel and electrical energy use, of the water heater from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
0
—mean tank temperature at the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
24
—mean tank temperature at the end of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
a,stby
—average ambient air temperature during all standby periods of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
a,stby,1
—overall average ambient temperature between the start and end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
t,stby,1
— overall average mean tank temperature between the start and end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
del
—for flow-activated water heaters, average outlet water temperature during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test
T
del,i
—average outlet water temperature during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test
T
in
—for flow-activated water heaters, average inlet water temperature during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test
T
st
—for water heaters which cannot have internal tank temperature directly measured, estimated average internal storage tank temperature
T
p
—for water heaters which cannot have internal tank temperature directly measured, average of the inlet and the outlet water temperatures at the end of the period defined by
τ
p
T
in,p
—for water heaters which cannot have internal tank temperature directly measured, average of the inlet water temperatures
T
out,p
—for water heaters which cannot have internal tank temperature directly measured, average of the outlet water temperatures
T
in,i
—average inlet water temperature during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test
T
max,1
—maximum measured mean tank temperature after the first recovery period of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
su,0
—maximum measured mean tank temperature at the beginning of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
su,f
—measured mean tank temperature at the end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
T
*
del,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, average outlet water temperature during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to n) of the first-hour rating test
T
*
max,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, maximum outlet water temperature observed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to n) of the first-hour rating test
T
*
min,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, minimum outlet water temperature to terminate the
i
th draw (i = 1 to n) of the first-hour rating test
UA
—standby loss coefficient of a water heater with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons
UEF
—uniform energy factor of a water heater
V
—the volume of hot water drawn during the applicable draw pattern
V
del,i
—volume of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) of the 24-hour simulated-use test
V
in,i
—volume of water entering the water heater during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) of the 24-hour simulated-use test
V*
del,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, volume of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to n) of the first-hour rating test
V*
in,i
—for non-flow activated water heaters, volume of water entering the water heater during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to n) of the first-hour rating test
V
del,10m
—for flow-activated water heaters, volume of water removed during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test
V
in,10m
—for flow-activated water heaters, volume of water entering the water heater during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test
V
st
—measured storage volume of the storage tank for water heaters with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons
V
eff
—effective storage volume
v
out,p
—for water heaters which cannot have internal tank temperature directly measured, average flow rate
W
f
—weight of storage tank when completely filled with water for water heaters with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons
W
t
—tare weight of storage tank when completely empty of water for water heaters with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons
η
r
—recovery efficiency
ρ
—density of water
τ
p
—for water heaters which cannot have internal tank temperature directly measured, duration of the temperature measurement period, determined by the length of time taken for the outlet water temperature to be within 2 °F of the inlet
water temperature for 15 consecutive seconds (including the 15-second stabilization period)
τ
stby,1
—elapsed time between the start and end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
τ
stby,2
—overall time of standby periods when no water is withdrawn during the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix
1.16.
Temperature Controller
means a device that is available to the user to adjust the temperature of the water inside a water heater that stores heated water or the outlet water temperature.
1.17.
Thermal break
means a thermally non-conductive material that can withstand a pressure of 150 psi (1.034 MPa) at a temperature greater than the maximum temperature the water heater is designed to produce and is utilized to insulate a bypass loop, if one is used in the test set-up, from the inlet piping.
1.18.
Uniform Energy Factor
means the measure of water heater overall efficiency.
1.19.
Water Heater Requiring a Storage Tank
means a water heater without a storage tank specified or supplied by the manufacturer that cannot meet the requirements of sections 2 and 5 of this appendix without the use of a storage water heater or unfired hot water storage tank.

# 2. Test Conditions.
2.1
Installation Requirements.
Tests shall be performed with the water heater and instrumentation installed in accordance with section 4 of this appendix.
2.2
Ambient Air Temperature and Relative Humidity.
2.2.1
Non-Heat Pump Water Heaters.
The ambient air temperature shall be maintained between 65.0 °F and 70.0 °F (18.3 °C and 21.1 °C) on a continuous basis.
2.2.2
Heat Pump Water Heaters.
The dry-bulb temperature shall be maintained at an average of 67.5 °F ± 1 °F (19.7 °C ± 0.6 °C) after a cut-in and before the next cut-out, an average of 67.5 °F ± 2.5 °F (19.7 °C ± 1.4 °C) after a cut-out and before the next cut-in, and at 67.5 °F ± 5 °F (19.7 °C ± 2.8 °C) on a continuous basis throughout the test. The relative humidity shall be maintained within a range of 50% ± 5% throughout the test, and at an average of 50% ± 2% after a cut-in and before the next cut-out.
When testing a split-system heat pump water heater or heat pump water heater requiring a separate storage tank, the heat pump portion of the system shall be tested at the conditions within this section and the separate water heater or unfired hot water storage tank shall be tested at either the conditions within this section or the conditions specified in section 2.2.1 of this appendix.
2.3
Supply Water Temperature.
The temperature of the water being supplied to the water heater shall be maintained at 58 °F ± 2 °F (14.4 °C ± 1.1 °C) throughout the test.
2.4
Outlet Water Temperature.
The temperature controllers of a non-flow activated water heater shall be set so that water is delivered at a temperature of 125 °F ± 5 °F (51.7 °C ± 2.8 °C).
2.5
Set Point Temperature.
The temperature controller of a flow-activated water heater shall be set to deliver water at a temperature of 125 °F ± 5 °F (51.7 °C ± 2.8 °C). If the flow-activated water heater is not capable of delivering water at a temperature of 125 °F ± 5 °F (51.7 °C ± 2.8 °C) when supplied with water at the supply water temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix, then the flow-activated water heater shall be set to deliver water at its maximum water temperature.
2.6
Supply Water Pressure.
During the test when water is not being withdrawn, the supply pressure shall be maintained between 40 psig (275 kPa) and the maximum allowable pressure specified by the water heater manufacturer.
2.7
Electrical and/or Fossil Fuel Supply.
2.7.1
Electrical.
Maintain the electrical supply voltage to within ±2% of the center of the voltage range specified on the nameplate of the water heater by the water heater and/or heat pump manufacturer, from 5 seconds after a cut-in to 5 seconds before next cut-out.
2.7.2
Natural Gas.
Maintain the supply pressure in accordance with the supply pressure specified on the nameplate of the water heater by the manufacturer. If the supply pressure is not specified, maintain a supply pressure of 7-10 inches of water column (1.7-2.5 kPa). If the water heater is equipped with a gas appliance pressure regulator and the gas appliance pressure regulator can be adjusted, the regulator outlet pressure shall be within the greater of ±10% of the manufacturer's specified manifold pressure, found on the nameplate of the water heater, or ±0.2 inches water column (0.05 kPa). Maintain the gas supply pressure and manifold pressure only when operating at the design power rating. For all tests, use natural gas having a heating value of approximately 1,025 Btu per standard cubic foot (38,190 kJ per standard cubic meter).
2.7.3
Propane Gas.
Maintain the supply pressure in accordance with the supply pressure specified on the nameplate of the water heater by the manufacturer. If the supply pressure is not specified, maintain a supply pressure of 11-13 inches of water column (2.7-3.2 kPa). If the water heater is equipped with a gas appliance pressure regulator and the gas appliance pressure regulator can be adjusted, the regulator outlet pressure shall be within the greater of ±10% of the manufacturer's specified manifold pressure, found on
the nameplate of the water heater, or ±0.2 inches water column (0.05 kPa). Maintain the gas supply pressure and manifold pressure only when operating at the design power rating. For all tests, use propane gas with a heating value of approximately 2,500 Btu per standard cubic foot (93,147 kJ per standard cubic meter).
2.7.4
Fuel Oil Supply.
Maintain an uninterrupted supply of fuel oil. The fuel pump pressure shall be within ±10% of the pump pressure specified on the nameplate of the water heater or the installation and operations (I
O) manual by the manufacturer. Use fuel oil having a heating value of approximately 138,700 Btu per gallon (38,660 kJ per liter).
2.8
Optional Test Conditions (Heat Pump-Type Water Heaters).
The following test conditions may be used for optional representations of E
X
for heat pump-type water heaters. When conducting a 24-hour simulated use test to determine E
X,
the test conditions in section 2.1 and sections 2.4 through 2.7 apply. The ambient air temperature and humidity conditions in section 2.2 and the supply water temperature in section 2.3 are replaced with the air temperature, humidity, and supply water temperature conditions as shown in the following table. Testing may optionally be performed at any or all of the conditions in the table, and the sampling plan found at 10 CFR 429.17(a) may be applied for voluntary representations.
Heat pump type
Metric
Outdoor air conditions
Dry-bulb
temperature
( °F)
Relative
humidity
(%)
Indoor air conditions
Dry-bulb
temperature
( °F)
Relative
humidity
(%)
Supply water
temperature
( °F)
Split-System or Circulating
E
5
5.0
30
67.5
50
42.0
E
34
34.0
72
47.0
E
95
95.0
25
67.0
Integrated, Split-System, or Circulating
E
50
N/A
N/A
50.0
58
50.0
E
95
N/A
N/A
95.0
40
67.0

# 3. Instrumentation.
3.1
Pressure Measurements.
Pressure-measuring instruments shall have an error no greater than the following values:
Item measured
Instrument accuracy
Instrument precision
Gas pressure
±0.1 inch of water column (±0.025 kPa)
±0.05 inch of water column (±0.012 kPa).
Atmospheric pressure
±0.1 inch of mercury column (±0.34 kPa)
±0.05 inch of mercury column (±0.17 kPa).
Water pressure
±1.0 pounds per square inch (±6.9 kPa)
±0.50 pounds per square inch (±3.45 kPa).
3.2
Temperature Measurement
3.2.1
Measurement.
Temperature measurements shall be made in accordance with the Standard Method for Temperature Measurement, ASHRAE 41.1-2020, including the conditions as specified in ASHRAE 41.6-2014 as referenced in ASHRAE 41.1-2020, and excluding the steady-state temperature criteria in section 5.5 of ASHRAE 41.1-2020.
3.2.2
Accuracy and Precision.
The accuracy and precision of the instruments, including their associated readout devices, shall be within the following limits:
Item measured
Instrument accuracy
Instrument precision
Air dry-bulb temperature
±0.2 °F (±0.1 °C)
±0.1 °F (±0.06 °C).
Air wet-bulb temperature
±0.2 °F (±0.1 °C)
±0.1 °F (±0.06 °C).
Inlet and outlet water temperatures
±0.2 °F (±0.1 °C)
±0.1 °F (±0.06 °C).
Storage tank temperatures
±0.5 °F (±0.3 °C)
±0.25 °F (±0.14 °C).
3.2.3
Scale Division.
In no case shall the smallest scale division of the instrument or instrument system exceed 2 times the specified precision.
3.2.4
Temperature Difference.
Temperature difference between the entering and leaving water may be measured with any of the following:
(a) A thermopile
(b) Calibrated resistance thermometers
(c) Precision thermometers
(d) Calibrated thermistors
(e) Calibrated thermocouples
(f) Quartz thermometers
3.2.5
Thermopile Construction.
If a thermopile is used, it shall be made from calibrated thermocouple wire taken from a single spool. Extension wires to the recording device shall also be made from that same spool.
3.2.6
Time Constant.
The time constant of the instruments used to measure the inlet and outlet water temperatures shall be no greater than 2 seconds.
3.3
Liquid Flow Rate Measurement.
The accuracy of the liquid flow rate measurement, using the calibration if furnished, shall be equal to or less than ±1% of the measured value in mass units per unit time.
3.4
Electrical Energy.
The electrical energy used shall be measured with an instrument and associated readout device that is accurate within ±0.5% of the reading.
3.5
Fossil Fuels.
The quantity of fuel used by the water heater shall be measured with an instrument and associated readout device that is accurate within ±1% of the reading.
3.6
Mass Measurements.
For mass measurements greater than or equal to 10 pounds (4.5 kg), a scale that is accurate within ±0.5% of the reading shall be used to make the measurement. For mass measurements less than 10 pounds (4.5 kg), the scale shall provide a measurement that is accurate within ±0.1 pound (0.045 kg).
3.7
Heating Value.
The higher heating value of the natural gas, propane, or fuel oil shall be measured with an instrument and associated readout device that is accurate within ±1% of the reading. The heating values of natural gas and propane must be corrected from those measured to the standard temperature of 60.0 °F (15.6 °C) and standard pressure of 30 inches of mercury column (101.6 kPa) using the method described in Annex B of ASHRAE 118.2-2022.
3.8
Time.
The elapsed time measurements shall be measured with an instrument that is accurate within ±0.5 seconds per hour.
3.9
Volume.
Volume measurements shall be measured with an accuracy of ±2% of the total volume.
3.10
Relative Humidity.
If a relative humidity (RH) transducer is used to measure the relative humidity of the surrounding air while testing heat pump water heaters, the relative humidity shall be measured with an accuracy of ±1.5% RH.

# 4. Installation.
4.1
Water Heater Mounting.
A water heater designed to be freestanding shall be placed on a
3/4
inch (2 cm) thick plywood platform supported by three 2x4 inch (5 cm x 10 cm) runners. If the water heater is not approved for installation on combustible flooring, suitable non-combustible material shall be placed between the water heater and the platform. Water heaters designed to be installed into a kitchen countertop space shall be placed against a simulated wall section. Wall-mounted water heaters shall be supported on a simulated wall in accordance with the manufacturer-published installation instructions. When a simulated wall is used, the construction shall be 2x4 inch (5 cm x 10 cm) studs, faced with
3/4
inch (2 cm) plywood. For heat pump water heaters not delivered as a single package, the units shall be connected in accordance with the manufacturer-published installation instructions, and the overall system shall be placed on the above-described plywood platform. If installation instructions are not provided by the heat pump manufacturer, uninsulated 8 foot (2.4 m) long connecting hoses having an inside diameter of
5/8
inch (1.6 cm) shall be used to connect the storage tank and the heat pump water heater. With the exception of using the storage tank described in section 4.10 of this appendix, the same requirements shall apply for water heaters requiring a storage tank. The testing of the water heater shall occur in an area that is protected from drafts of more than 50 ft/min (0.25 m/s) from room ventilation registers, windows, or other external sources of air movement.
4.2
Water Supply.
Connect the water heater to a water supply capable of delivering water at conditions as specified in sections 2.3 and 2.6 of this appendix.
4.3
Water Inlet and Outlet Configuration.
For freestanding water heaters that are taller than 36 inches (91.4 cm), inlet and outlet piping connections shall be configured in a manner consistent with Figures 1 and 2 of section 7 of this appendix. Inlet and outlet piping connections for wall-mounted water heaters shall be consistent with Figure 3 of section 7 of this appendix. For freestanding water heaters that are 36 inches or less in height and not supplied as part of a counter-top enclosure (commonly referred to as an under-the-counter model), inlet and outlet piping shall be installed in a manner consistent with Figures 4, 5, or 6 of section 7 of this appendix. For water heaters that are supplied with a counter-top enclosure, inlet and outlet piping shall be made in a manner consistent with Figures 7a and 7b of section 7 of this appendix, respectively. The vertical piping noted in Figures 7a and 7b shall be located (whether inside the enclosure or along the outside in a recessed channel) in accordance with the manufacturer-published installation instructions.
All dimensions noted in Figures 1 through 7 of section 7 of this appendix must be achieved. All piping between the water heater and inlet and outlet temperature sensors, noted as T
IN
and T
OUT
in the figures, shall be Type “L” hard copper having the same diameter as the connections on the water heater. Unions may be used to facilitate installation and removal of the piping arrangements. Install a pressure gauge and diaphragm expansion tank in the supply water
piping at a location upstream of the inlet temperature sensor. Install an appropriately rated pressure and temperature relief valve on all water heaters at the port specified by the manufacturer. Discharge piping for the relief valve must be non-metallic. If heat traps, piping insulation, or pressure relief valve insulation are supplied with the water heater, they must be installed for testing. Except when using a simulated wall, provide sufficient clearance such that none of the piping contacts other surfaces in the test room.
At the discretion of the test laboratory, the mass or water delivered may be measured on either the inlet or outlet of the water heater.
For water heaters designed to be used with a mixing valve and that do not have a self-contained mixing valve, a mixing valve shall be installed according to the water heater and/or mixing valve manufacturer's installation instructions. If permitted by the water heater and mixing valve manufacturer's instructions, the mixing valve and cold water junction may be installed where the elbows are located in the outlet and inlet line, respectively. If there are no installation instructions for the mixing valve in the water heater or mixing valve manufacturer's instructions, then the mixing valve shall be installed on the outlet line and the cold water shall be supplied from the inlet line from a junction installed downstream from the location where the inlet water temperature is measured. The outlet water temperature, water flow rate, and/or mass measuring instrumentation, if installed on the outlet side of the water heater, shall be installed downstream from the mixing valve.
4.4
Fuel and/or Electrical Power and Energy Consumption.
Install one or more instruments that measure, as appropriate, the quantity and rate of electrical energy and/or fossil fuel consumption in accordance with section 3 of this appendix.
4.5
Internal Storage Tank Temperature Measurements.
For water heaters with rated storage volumes greater than or equal to 20 gallons, install six temperature measurement sensors inside the water heater tank with a vertical distance of at least 4 inches (100 mm) between successive sensors. For water heaters with rated storage volumes between 2 and 20 gallons, install three temperature measurement sensors inside the water heater tank. Position a temperature sensor at the vertical midpoint of each of the six equal volume nodes within a tank larger than 20 gallons or the three equal volume nodes within a tank between 2 and 20 gallons. Nodes designate the equal volumes used to evenly partition the total volume of the tank. As much as is possible, the temperature sensor should be positioned away from any heating elements, anodic protective devices, tank walls, and flue pipe walls. If the tank cannot accommodate six temperature sensors and meet the installation requirements specified in this section, install the maximum number of sensors that comply with the installation requirements. Install the temperature sensors through:
(a) The anodic device opening;
(b) The relief valve opening; or
(c) The hot water outlet.
If installed through the relief valve opening or the hot water outlet, a tee fitting or outlet piping, as applicable, must be installed as close as possible to its original location. If the relief valve temperature sensor is relocated, and it no longer extends into the top of the tank, install a substitute relief valve that has a sensing element that can reach into the tank. If the hot water outlet includes a heat trap, install the heat trap on top of the tee fitting. Cover any added fittings with thermal insulation having an R value between 4 and 8 h·ft
2
· °F/Btu (0.7 and 1.4 m
2
· °C/W). If temperature measurement sensors cannot be installed within the water heater, follow the alternate procedures in section 5.4.2.2 of this appendix.
4.6
Ambient Air Temperature Measurement.
Install an ambient air temperature sensor at the vertical midpoint of the water heater and approximately 2 feet (610 mm) from the surface of the water heater. Shield the sensor against radiation.
4.7
Inlet and Outlet Water Temperature Measurements.
Install temperature sensors in the cold-water inlet pipe and hot-water outlet pipe as shown in Figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7a, and 7b of section 7 of this appendix, as applicable.
4.8
Flow Control.
Install a valve or valves to provide flow as specified in sections 5.3 and 5.4 of this appendix.
4.9
Flue Requirements.
4.9.1
Gas-Fired Water Heaters.
Establish a natural draft in the following manner. For gas-fired water heaters with a vertically discharging draft hood outlet, connect to the draft hood outlet a 5-foot (1.5-meter) vertical vent pipe extension with a diameter equal to the largest flue collar size of the draft hood. For gas-fired water heaters with a horizontally discharging draft hood outlet, connect to the draft hood outlet a 90-degree elbow with a diameter equal to the largest flue collar size of the draft hood, connect a 5-foot (1.5-meter) length of vent pipe to that elbow, and orient the vent pipe to discharge vertically upward. Install direct-vent gas-fired water heaters with venting equipment specified by the manufacturer in the I
O manual using the minimum vertical and horizontal lengths of vent pipe recommended by the manufacturer.
4.9.2
Oil-Fired Water Heaters.
Establish a draft at the flue collar at the value specified by the manufacturer in the I
O manual. Establish the draft by using a sufficient length of vent pipe connected to the water heater
flue outlet, and directed vertically upward. For an oil-fired water heater with a horizontally discharging draft hood outlet, connect to the draft hood outlet a 90-degree elbow with a diameter equal to the largest flue collar size of the draft hood, connect to the elbow fitting a length of vent pipe sufficient to establish the draft, and orient the vent pipe to discharge vertically upward. Direct-vent oil-fired water heaters should be installed with venting equipment as specified by the manufacturer in the I
O manual, using the minimum vertical and horizontal lengths of vent pipe recommended by the manufacturer.
4.10
Storage Tank Requirement for Water Heaters Requiring a Storage Tank (i.e., Circulating Water Heaters).
On or after May 6, 2029, when testing a gas-fired, oil-fired, or electric resistance circulating water heater (
i.e.,
any circulating water heater that does not use a heat pump), the tank to be used for testing shall be an unfired hot water storage tank having volume between 80 and 120 gallons (364-546 liters) determined using the method specified in section 5.2.1 of this appendix that meets but does not exceed the minimum energy conservation standards required according to § 431.110 of this chapter. When testing a heat pump circulating water heater, the tank to be used for testing shall be an electric storage water heater that has a measured volume of 30 gallons (±5 gallons), has a First-Hour Rating less than 51 gallons resulting in classification under the low draw pattern, and has a rated UEF equal to the minimum UEF standard specified at § 430.32(d), rounded to the nearest 0.01. The operational mode of the heat pump circulating water heater and storage water heater paired system shall be set in accordance with section 5.1.1 of this appendix. If the circulating water heater is supplied with a separate non-integrated circulating pump, install this pump as per the manufacturer's installation instructions and include its power consumption in energy use measurements.
4.11
External Communication.
If the water heater can connect to an external network or controller, any external communication or connection shall be disabled for the duration of testing; however, the communication module shall remain in an “on” state.

# 5. Test Procedures.
5.1
Operational Mode Selection.
For water heaters that allow for multiple user-selected operational modes, all procedures specified in this appendix shall be carried out with the water heater in the same operational mode (
i.e.,
only one mode).
5.1.1
Testing at Normal Setpoint.
The operational mode shall be the default mode (or similarly named, suggested mode for normal operation) as defined by the manufacturer in the I
O manual for giving selection guidance to the consumer. For heat pump water heaters, if a default mode is not defined in the product literature, each test shall be conducted under an operational mode in which both the heat pump and any electric resistance back-up heating element(s) are activated by the unit's control scheme, and which can achieve the internal storage tank temperature specified in this test procedure; if multiple operational modes meet these criteria, the water heater shall be tested under the most energy-intensive mode. If no default mode is specified and the unit does not offer an operational mode that utilizes both the heat pump and the electric resistance back-up heating element(s), the first-hour rating test and the 24-hour simulated-use test shall be tested in heat-pump-only mode. For other types of water heaters where a default mode is not specified, test the unit in all modes and rate the unit using the results of the most energy-intensive mode.
5.1.2
High Temperature Testing.
This paragraph applies to electric storage water heaters capable of achieving a T
max,1
above 135 °F. The following exceptions apply:
(1) Electric storage water heaters that do not have a permanent mode or setting in which the water heater is capable of heating and storing water above 135 °F (as measured by T
max,1
), where permanent mode or setting means a mode of operation that is continuous and does not require any external consumer intervention to maintain for longer than 120 hours;
(2) Electric storage water heaters that meet the definition of “heat pump-type” water heater at § 430.2;
(3) Electric storage water heaters that are only capable of heating the stored water above 135 °F in response to instructions received from a utility or third-party demand-response program.
(4) Electric storage water heaters with measured storage volumes (V
st
) less than 20 gallons or greater than 55 gallons.
This paragraph may optionally apply to electric heat pump water heaters for voluntary representations of high-temperature operation only.
For those equipped with factory-installed or built-in mixing valves, set the unit to maintain the highest mean tank temperature possible while delivering water at 125 °F ±5 °F. For those not so equipped, install an ASSE 1017-certified mixing valve in accordance with the provisions in section 4.3 of this appendix and adjust the valve to deliver water at 125 °F ±5 °F when the water heater is operating at its highest storage tank temperature setpoint. Maintain this setting throughout the entirety of the test.
5.2
Water Heater Preparation.
5.2 1
Determination of Storage Tank Volume.
For water heaters and separate storage tanks used for testing circulating water heaters, determine the storage capacity, V
st,
of the water heater or separate storage tank
under test, in gallons (liters), by subtracting the tare weight, W
t
, (measured while the tank is empty) from the gross weight of the storage tank when completely filled with water at the supply water temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix, W
f
, (with all air eliminated and line pressure applied as described in section 2.6 of this appendix) and dividing the resulting net weight by the density of water at the measured temperature.
5.2.2
Setting the Outlet Discharge Temperature.
5.2.2.1
Flow-Activated Water Heaters, including certain instantaneous water heaters and certain storage-type water heaters.
Initiate normal operation of the water heater at the design power rating. Monitor the discharge water temperature and set to the value specified in section 2.5 of this appendix in accordance with the manufacturer's I
O manual. If the water heater is not capable of providing this discharge temperature when the flow rate is 1.7 gallons ± 0.25 gallons per minute (6.4 liters ± 0.95 liters per minute), then adjust the flow rate as necessary to achieve the specified discharge water temperature. Once the proper temperature control setting is achieved, the setting must remain fixed for the duration of the maximum GPM test and the 24-hour simulated-use test.
5.2.2.2
All Other Water Heaters.
5.2.2.2.1
Water Heaters with a Single Temperature Controller.
5.2.2.2.1.1
Water Heaters with Rated Volumes Less than 20 Gallons.
Starting with a tank at the supply water temperature as specified in section 2.3 of this appendix, initiate normal operation of the water heater. After cut-out, initiate a draw from the water heater at a flow rate of 1.0 gallon ± 0.25 gallons per minute (3.8 liters ± 0.95 liters per minute) for 2 minutes. Starting 15 seconds after commencement of the draw, record the outlet temperature at 15-second intervals until the end of the 2-minute period. Determine whether the maximum outlet temperature is within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix. If not, turn off the water heater, adjust the temperature controller, and then drain and refill the tank with supply water at the temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix. Then, once again, initiate normal operation of the water heater, and repeat the 2-minute outlet temperature test following cut-out. Repeat this sequence until the maximum outlet temperature during the 2-minute test is within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix. Once the proper temperature control setting is achieved, the setting must remain fixed for the duration of the first-hour rating test and the 24-hour simulated-use test.
5.2.2.2.1.2
Water Heaters with Rated Volumes Greater than or Equal to 20 Gallons.
Starting with a tank at the supply water temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix, initiate normal operation of the water heater. After cut-out, initiate a draw from the water heater at a flow rate of 1.7 gallons ± 0.25 gallons per minute (6.4 liters ± 0.95 liters per minute) for 5 minutes. Starting 15 seconds after commencement of the draw, record the outlet temperature at 15-second intervals until the end of the 5-minute period. Determine whether the maximum outlet temperature is within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix. If not, turn off the water heater, adjust the temperature controller, and then drain and refill the tank with supply water at the temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix. Then, once again, initiate normal operation of the water heater, and repeat the 5-minute outlet temperature test following cut-out. Repeat this sequence until the maximum outlet temperature during the 5-minute test is within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix. Once the proper temperature control setting is achieved, the setting must remain fixed for the duration of the first-hour rating test and the 24-hour simulated-use test.
5.2.2.2.2
Water Heaters with Two or More Temperature Controllers.
Verify the temperature controller set-point while removing water in accordance with the procedure set forth for the first-hour rating test in section 5.3.3 of this appendix. The following criteria must be met to ensure that all temperature controllers are set to deliver water in the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix:
(a) At least 50 percent of the water drawn during the first draw of the first-hour rating test procedure shall be delivered at a temperature within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix.
(b) No water is delivered above the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix during first-hour rating test.
(c) The delivery temperature measured 15 seconds after commencement of each draw begun prior to an elapsed time of 60 minutes from the start of the test shall be within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix.
If these conditions are not met, turn off the water heater, adjust the temperature controllers, and then drain and refill the tank with supply water at the temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix. Repeat the procedure described at the start of section 5.2.2.2.2 of this appendix until the criteria for setting the temperature controllers is met.
If the conditions stated above are met, the data obtained during the process of verifying the temperature control set-points may be used in determining the first-hour rating provided that all other conditions and methods required in sections 2 and 5.2.4 of this appendix in preparing the water heater were followed.
5.2.3
Power Input Determination.
For all water heaters except electric types, initiate normal operation (as described in section 5.1 of this appendix) and determine the power input, P, to the main burners (including pilot light power, if any) after 15 minutes of operation. Adjust all burners to achieve an hourly Btu (kJ) rating that is within ±2% of the maximum input rate value specified by the manufacturer. For an oil-fired water heater, adjust the burner to give a CO
2
reading recommended by the manufacturer and an hourly Btu (kJ) rating that is within ±2% of the maximum input rate specified by the manufacturer. Smoke in the flue may not exceed No. 1 smoke as measured by the procedure in ASTM D2156 (R2018), including the conditions as specified in ASTM E97-1987 as referenced in ASTM D2156 (R2018). If the input rating is not within ±2%, first increase or decrease the fuel pressure within the tolerances specified in section 2.7.2, 2.7.3 or 2.7.4 (as applicable) of this appendix until it is ±2% of the maximum input rate value specified by the manufacturer. If, after adjusting the fuel pressure, the fuel input rate cannot be achieved within ±2 percent of the maximum input rate value specified by the manufacturer, for gas-fired models increase or decrease the gas supply pressure within the range specified by the manufacturer. Finally, if the measured fuel input rate is still not within ±2 percent of the maximum input rate value specified by the manufacturer, modify the gas inlet orifice, if so equipped, as necessary to achieve a fuel input rate that is within ±2 percent of the maximum input rate value specified by the manufacturer.
5.2.4
Soak-In Period for Water Heaters with Rated Storage Volumes Greater than or Equal to 2 Gallons.
For water heaters with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons (7.6 liters), the water heater must sit filled with water, connected to a power source, and without any draws taking place for at least 12 hours after initially being energized so as to achieve the nominal temperature set-point within the tank and with the unit connected to a power source.
5.3
Delivery Capacity Tests.
5.3.1
General.
For flow-activated water heaters, conduct the maximum GPM test, as described in section 5.3.2, Maximum GPM Rating Test for Flow-Activated Water Heaters, of this appendix. For all other water heaters, conduct the first-hour rating test as described in section 5.3.3 of this appendix.
5.3.2
Maximum GPM Rating Test for Flow-Activated Water Heaters.
Establish normal water heater operation at the design power rating with the discharge water temperature set in accordance with section 5.2.2.1 of this appendix.
For this 10-minute test, either collect the withdrawn water for later measurement of the total mass removed or use a water meter to directly measure the water mass of volume removed. Initiate water flow through the water heater and record the inlet and outlet water temperatures beginning 15 seconds after the start of the test and at subsequent 5-second intervals throughout the duration of the test. At the end of 10 minutes, turn off the water. Determine and record the mass of water collected, M
10m
, in pounds (kilograms), or the volume of water, V
10m
, in gallons (liters).
5.3.3
First-Hour Rating Test.
5.3.3.1
General.
During hot water draws for water heaters with rated storage volumes greater than or equal to 20 gallons, remove water at a rate of 3.0 ± 0.25 gallons per minute (11.4 ± 0.95 liters per minute). During hot water draws for water heaters with rated storage volumes below 20 gallons, remove water at a rate of 1.5 ± 0.25 gallon per minute (5.7 ± 0.95 liters per minute). Collect the water in a container that is large enough to hold the volume removed during an individual draw and is suitable for weighing at the termination of each draw to determine the total volume of water withdrawn. As an alternative to collecting the water, a water meter may be used to directly measure the water mass or volume withdrawn during each draw.
5.3.3.2
Draw Initiation Criteria.
Begin the first-hour rating test by starting a draw on the water heater. After completion of this first draw, initiate successive draws based on the following criteria. For gas-fired and oil-fired water heaters, initiate successive draws when the temperature controller acts to reduce the supply of fuel to the main burner. For electric water heaters having a single element or multiple elements that all operate simultaneously, initiate successive draws when the temperature controller acts to reduce the electrical input supplied to the element(s). For electric water heaters having two or more elements that do not operate simultaneously, initiate successive draws when the applicable temperature controller acts to reduce the electrical input to the energized element located vertically highest in the storage tank. For heat pump water heaters that do not use supplemental, resistive heating, initiate successive draws immediately after the electrical input to the compressor is reduced by the action of the water heater's temperature controller. For heat pump water heaters that use supplemental resistive heating, initiate successive draws immediately after the electrical input to the first of either the compressor or the vertically highest resistive element is reduced by the action of the applicable water heater temperature controller. This draw initiation criterion for heat pump water heaters that use supplemental resistive heating, however, shall only apply when the water located above the thermostat at cut-out is heated to within the range specified in section 2.4 of this appendix. If this criterion
is not met, then the next draw should be initiated once the heat pump compressor cuts out.
5.3.3.3
Test Sequence.
Establish normal water heater operation. If the water heater is not presently operating, initiate a draw. The draw may be terminated any time after cut-in occurs. After cut-out occurs (
i.e.,
all temperature controllers are satisfied), if the water heater can have its internal tank temperatures measured, record the internal storage tank temperature at each sensor described in section 4.5 of this appendix every one minute, and determine the mean tank temperature by averaging the values from these sensors.
Initiate a draw after a maximum mean tank temperature (the maximum of the mean temperatures of the individual sensors) has been observed following a cut-out. If the water heater cannot have its internal tank temperatures measured, wait 5 minutes after cut-out. Record the time when the draw is initiated and designate it as an elapsed time of zero (τ* = 0). (The superscript * is used to denote variables pertaining to the first-hour rating test). Record the outlet water temperature beginning 15 seconds after the draw is initiated and at 5-second intervals thereafter until the draw is terminated. Determine the maximum outlet temperature that occurs during this first draw and record it as T*
max,1
. For the duration of this first draw and all successive draws, in addition, monitor the inlet temperature to the water heater to ensure that the required supply water temperature test condition specified in section 2.3 of this appendix is met. Terminate the hot water draw when the outlet temperature decreases to T*
max,1
−15 °F (T*
max,1
−8.3 °C). (Note, if the outlet temperature does not decrease to T*
max,1
−15 °F (T*
max,1
−8.3 °C) during the draw, then hot water would be drawn continuously for the duration of the test. In this instance, the test would end when the temperature decreases to T*
max,1
−15 °F (T*
max,1
−8.3 °C) after the electrical power and/or fuel supplied to the water heater is shut off, as described in the following paragraphs.) Record this temperature as T*
min,1
. Following draw termination, determine the average outlet water temperature and the mass or volume removed during this first draw and record them as
T
*
del,i
and M*
1
or V*
1
, respectively.
Initiate a second and, if applicable, successive draw(s) each time the applicable draw initiation criteria described in section 5.3.3.2 of this appendix are satisfied. As required for the first draw, record the outlet water temperature 15 seconds after initiating each draw and at 5-second intervals thereafter until the draw is terminated. Determine the maximum outlet temperature that occurs during each draw and record it as T*
max,i
, where the subscript i refers to the draw number. Terminate each hot water draw when the outlet temperature decreases to T*
max,i
−15 °F (T*
max,i
−8.3 °C). Record this temperature as T*
min,i
. Calculate and record the average outlet temperature and the mass or volume removed during each draw (
T
*
del,i
and M*
i
or V*
i
, respectively). Continue this sequence of draw and recovery until one hour after the start of the test, then shut off the electrical power and/or fuel supplied to the water heater.
If a draw is occurring at one hour from the start of the test, continue this draw until the outlet temperature decreases to T*
max,n
−15 °F (T*
max,n
−8.3 °C), at which time the draw shall be immediately terminated. (The subscript n shall be used to denote measurements associated with the final draw.) If a draw is not occurring one hour after the start of the test, initiate a final draw at one hour, regardless of whether the criteria described in section 5.3.3.2 of this appendix are satisfied. This draw shall proceed for a minimum of 30 seconds and shall terminate when the outlet temperature first indicates a value less than or equal to the cut-off temperature used for the previous draw (T*
min,n−1
). If an outlet temperature greater than T*
min,n−1
is not measured within 30 seconds of initiation of the draw, zero additional credit shall be given towards first-hour rating (
i.e.,
M*
n
= 0 or V*
n
= 0) based on the final draw. After the final draw is terminated, calculate and record the average outlet temperature and the mass or volume removed during the final draw (
T
*
del,n
and M*
n
or V*
n,
respectively).
5.4
24-Hour Simulated-Use Test.
5.4.1
Selection of Draw Pattern.
The water heater will be tested under a draw profile that depends upon the first-hour rating obtained following the test prescribed in section 5.3.3 of this appendix, or the maximum GPM rating obtained following the test prescribed in section 5.3.2 of this appendix, whichever is applicable. For water heaters that have been tested according to the first-hour rating procedure, one of four different patterns shall be applied based on the measured first-hour rating, as shown in Table I of this section. For water heater that have been tested according to the maximum GPM rating procedure, one of four different patterns shall be applied based on the maximum GPM, as shown in Table II of this section.
Table I—Draw Pattern To Be Used Based on First-Hour Rating
First-hour rating greater than or equal to:
. . . and first-hour rating less than:
Draw pattern to be used in the 24-hour simulated-use test
0 gallons
18 gallons
Very-Small-Usage (Table III.1).
18 gallons
51 gallons
Low-Usage (Table III.2).
51 gallons
75 gallons
Medium-Usage (Table III.3).
75 gallons
No upper limit
High-Usage (Table III.4).
Table II—Draw Pattern To Be Used Based on Maximum GPM Rating
Maximum GPM rating greater than or equal to:
and maximum GPM rating less than:
Draw pattern to be used in the 24-hour simulated-use test
0 gallons/minute
1.7 gallons/minute
Very-Small-Usage (Table III.1).
1.7 gallons/minute
2.8 gallons/minute
Low-Usage (Table III.2).
2.8 gallons/minute
4 gallons/minute
Medium-Usage (Table III.3).
4 gallons/minute
No upper limit
High-Usage (Table III.4).
The draw patterns are provided in Tables III.1 through III.4 in section 5.5 of this appendix. Use the appropriate draw pattern when conducting the test sequence provided in section 5.4.2 of this appendix for water heaters with rated storage volumes greater than or equal to 2 gallons or section 5.4.3 of this appendix for water heaters with rated storage volumes less than 2 gallons.
5.4.2
Test Sequence for Water Heater With Rated Storage Volume Greater Than or Equal to 2 Gallons.
If the water heater is turned off, fill the water heater with supply water at the temperature specified in section 2.3 of this appendix and maintain supply water pressure as described in section 2.6 of this appendix. Turn on the water heater and associated heat pump unit, if present. If turned on in this fashion, the soak-in period described in section 5.2.4 of this appendix shall be implemented. If the water heater has undergone a first-hour rating test prior to conduct of the 24-hour simulated-use test, allow the water heater to fully recover after completion of that test such that the main burner, heating elements, or heat pump compressor of the water heater are no longer raising the temperature of the stored water. In all cases, the water heater shall sit idle for 1 hour prior to the start of the 24-hour test; during which time no water is drawn from the unit, and there is no energy input to the main heating elements, heat pump compressor, and/or burners.
For water heaters that can have their internal storage tank temperature measured directly, perform testing in accordance with the instructions in section 5.4.2.1 of this appendix. For water heaters that cannot have their internal tank temperatures measured, perform testing in accordance with the instructions in section 5.4.2.2. of this appendix.
5.4.2.1
Water Heaters Which Can Have Internal Storage Tank Temperature Measured Directly.
After the 1-hour period specified in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, the 24-hour simulated-use test will begin. One minute prior to the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test, record the mean tank temperature (T
0
).
At the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test, record the electrical and/or fuel measurement readings, as appropriate. Begin the 24-hour simulated-use test by withdrawing the volume specified in the appropriate table in section 5.5 of this appendix (
i.e.,
Table III.1, Table III.2, Table III.3, or Table III.4, depending on the first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating) for the first draw at the flow rate specified in the applicable table. Record the time when this first draw is initiated and assign it as the test elapsed time (τ) of zero (0). Record the average storage tank and ambient temperature every minute throughout the 24-hour simulated-use test. At the elapsed times specified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix for a particular draw pattern, initiate additional draws pursuant to the draw pattern, removing the volume of hot water at the prescribed flow rate specified by the table. The maximum allowable deviation from the specified volume of water removed for any single draw taken at a nominal flow rate of 1.0 GPM or 1.7 GPM is ±0.1 gallons (±0.4 liters). The maximum allowable deviation from the specified volume of water removed for any single draw taken at a nominal flow rate of 3.0 GPM is ±0.25 gallons (0.9 liters). The quantity of water withdrawn during the last draw shall be increased or decreased as necessary such that the total volume of water withdrawn equals the prescribed daily amount for that draw pattern ±1.0 gallon (±3.8 liters). If this adjustment to the volume drawn during the last draw results in no draw taking place, the test is considered invalid.
All draws during the 24-hour simulated-use test shall be made at the flow rates specified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix, within a tolerance
of ±0.25 gallons per minute (±0.9 liters per minute). Measurements of the inlet and outlet temperatures shall be made 15 seconds after the draw is initiated and at every subsequent 3-second interval throughout the duration of each draw. Calculate and record the mean of the hot water discharge temperature and the cold water inlet temperature for each draw T
del,i
and T
in,i
). Determine and record the net mass or volume removed (M
i
or V
i
), as appropriate, after each draw.
The first recovery period is the time from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test and continues during the temperature rise of the stored water until the first cut-out; if the cut-out occurs during a subsequent draw, the first recovery period includes the time until the draw of water from the tank stops. If, after the first cut-out occurs but during a subsequent draw, a subsequent cut-in occurs prior to the draw completion, the first recovery period includes the time until the subsequent cut-out occurs, prior to another draw. The first recovery period may continue until a cut-out occurs when water is not being removed from the water heater or a cut-out occurs during a draw and the water heater does not cut-in prior to the end of the draw.
At the end of the first recovery period, record the maximum mean tank temperature observed after cut-out (T
max,1
). At the end of the first recovery period, record the total energy consumed by the water heater from the beginning of the test (Q
r
), including all fossil fuel and/or electrical energy use, from the main heat source and auxiliary equipment including, but not limited to, burner(s), resistive elements(s), compressor, fan, controls, pump,
etc.,
as applicable.
The start of the portion of the test during which the standby loss coefficient is determined depends upon whether the unit has fully recovered from the first draw cluster. If a recovery is occurring at or within five minutes after the end of the final draw in the first draw cluster, as identified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix, then the standby period starts when a maximum mean tank temperature is observed starting five minutes after the end of the recovery period that follows that draw. If a recovery does not occur at or within five minutes after the end of the final draw in the first draw cluster, as identified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix, then the standby period starts five minutes after the end of that draw. Determine and record the total electrical energy and/or fossil fuel consumed from the beginning of the test to the start of the standby period (Q
su,0
).
In preparation for determining the energy consumed during standby, record the reading given on the electrical energy (watt-hour) meter, the gas meter, and/or the scale used to determine oil consumption, as appropriate. Record the mean tank temperature at the start of the standby period (T
su,0
). At 1-minute intervals, record ambient temperature, the electric and/or fuel instrument readings, and the mean tank temperature until the next draw is initiated. The end of the standby period is when the final mean tank temperature is recorded, as described. Just prior to initiation of the next draw, record the mean tank temperature (T
su,f
). If the water heater is undergoing recovery when the next draw is initiated, record the mean tank temperature (T
su,f
) at the minute prior to the start of the recovery. Determine the total electrical energy and/or fossil fuel energy consumption from the beginning of the test to the end of the standby period (Q
su,f
). Record the time interval between the start of the standby period and the end of the standby period (τ
stby,1
).
Following the final draw of the prescribed draw pattern and subsequent recovery, allow the water heater to remain in the standby mode until exactly 24 hours have elapsed since the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test (
i.e.,
since τ = 0). During the last hour of the 24-hour simulated-use test (
i.e.,
hour 23 of the 24-hour simulated-use test), power to the main burner, heating element, or compressor shall be disabled. At 24 hours, record the reading given by the gas meter, oil meter, and/or the electrical energy meter as appropriate. Determine the fossil fuel and/or electrical energy consumed during the entire 24-hour simulated-use test and designate the quantity as Q.
In the event that the recovery period continues from the end of the last draw of the first draw cluster until the subsequent draw, the standby period will start after the end of the first recovery period after the last draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, when the temperature reaches the maximum mean tank temperature, though no sooner than five minutes after the end of this recovery period. The standby period shall last eight hours, so testing may extend beyond the 24-hour duration of the 24-hour simulated-use test. Determine and record the total electrical energy and/or fossil fuel consumed from the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the start of the 8-hour standby period (Q
su,0
). In preparation for determining the energy consumed during standby, record the reading(s) given on the electrical energy (watt-hour) meter, the gas meter, and/or the scale used to determine oil consumption, as appropriate. Record the mean tank temperature at the start of the standby period (T
su,0
). Record the mean tank temperature, the ambient temperature, and the electric and/or fuel instrument readings at 1-minute intervals until the end of the 8-hour period. Record the mean tank temperature at the end of the 8-hour standby period (T
su,f
). If the water heater is undergoing recovery at the end of the standby period, record the mean tank temperature (T
su,f
) at the minute prior
to the start of the recovery, which will mark the end of the standby period. Determine the total electrical energy and/or fossil fuel energy consumption from the beginning of the test to the end of the standby period (Q
su,f
). Record the time interval between the start of the standby period and the end of the standby period as τ
stby,1
. Record the average ambient temperature from the start of the standby period to the end of the standby period (T
a,stby,1
). Record the average mean tank temperature from the start of the standby period to the end of the standby period (T
t,stby,1
).
If the standby period occurred at the end of the first recovery period after the last draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, allow the water heater to remain in the standby mode until exactly 24 hours have elapsed since the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test (
i.e.,
since τ = 0) or the end of the standby period, whichever is longer. At 24 hours, record the mean tank temperature (T
24
) and the reading given by the gas meter, oil meter, and/or the electrical energy meter as appropriate. If the water heater is undergoing a recovery at 24 hours, record the reading given by the gas meter, oil meter, and/or electrical energy meter, as appropriate, and the mean tank temperature (T
24
) at the minute prior to the start of the recovery. Determine the fossil fuel and/or electrical energy consumed during the 24 hours and designate the quantity as Q.
Record the time during which water is not being withdrawn from the water heater during the entire 24-hour period (τ
stby,2
). When the standby period occurs after the last draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, the test may extend past hour 24. When this occurs, the measurements taken after hour 24 apply only to the calculations of the standby loss coefficient. All other measurements during the time between hour 23 and hour 24 remain the same.
5.4.2.2
Water Heaters Which Cannot Have Internal Storage Tank Temperature Measured Directly.
After the water heater has undergone a 1-hour idle period (as described in section 5.4.2 of this appendix), deactivate the burner, compressor, or heating element(s).
Remove water from the storage tank by performing a continuous draw at the flow rate specified for the first draw of applicable draw pattern for the 24-hour simulated use test in section 5.5 of this appendix within a tolerance of ±0.25 gallons per minute (±0.9 liters per minute). While removing the hot water, measure the inlet and outlet temperature after initiating the draw at 3-second intervals. Remove water until the outlet water temperature is within ±2 °F (±1.1 °C) of the inlet water temperature for 15 consecutive seconds. Determine the mean tank temperature using section 6.3.77 of this appendix and assign this value of
T
st
for
T
0
,
T
max,1
, and
T
su,0
.
After completing the draw, reactivate the burner, compressor, or heating elements(s) and allow the unit to fully recover such that the main burner, heating elements, or heat pump compressor is no longer raising the temperature of the stored water. Let the water heater sit idle again for 1 hour prior to beginning the 24-hour test, during which time no water shall be drawn from the unit, and there shall be no energy input to the main heating elements. After the 1-hour period, the 24-hour simulated-use test will begin.
At the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test, record the electrical and/or fuel measurement readings, as appropriate. Begin the 24-hour simulated-use test by withdrawing the volume specified in the appropriate table in section 5.5 of this appendix (
i.e.,
Table III.1, Table III.2, Table III.3, or Table III.4, depending on the first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating) for the first draw at the flow rate specified in the applicable table. Record the time when this first draw is initiated and assign it as the test elapsed time (τ) of zero (0). Record the average ambient temperature every minute throughout the 24-hour simulated-use test. At the elapsed times specified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix for a particular draw pattern, initiate additional draws pursuant to the draw pattern, removing the volume of hot water at the prescribed flow rate specified by the table. The maximum allowable deviation from the specified volume of water removed for any single draw taken at a nominal flow rate of 1.0 GPM or 1.7 GPM is ± 0.1 gallons (± 0.4 liters). The maximum allowable deviation from the specified volume of water removed for any single draw taken at a nominal flow rate of 3.0 GPM is ± 0.25 gallons (0.9 liters). The quantity of water withdrawn during the last draw shall be increased or decreased as necessary such that the total volume of water withdrawn equals the prescribed daily amount for that draw pattern ± 1.0 gallon (± 3.8 liters). If this adjustment to the volume drawn during the last draw results in no draw taking place, the test is considered invalid.
All draws during the 24-hour simulated-use test shall be made at the flow rates specified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix, within a tolerance of ±0.25 gallons per minute (±0.9 liters per minute). Measurements of the inlet and outlet temperatures shall be made 15 seconds after the draw is initiated and at every subsequent 3-second interval throughout the duration of each draw. Calculate and record the mean of the hot water discharge temperature and the cold water inlet temperature for each draw T
del,i
and T
in,i
). Determine and record the net mass or volume removed (M
i
or V
i
), as appropriate, after each draw.
The first recovery period is the time from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test
and continues until the first cut-out; if the cut-out occurs during a subsequent draw, the first recovery period includes the time until the draw of water from the tank stops. If, after the first cut-out occurs but during a subsequent draw, a subsequent cut-in occurs prior to the draw completion, the first recovery period includes the time until the subsequent cut-out occurs, prior to another draw. The first recovery period may continue until a cut-out occurs when water is not being removed from the water heater or a cut-out occurs during a draw and the water heater does not cut-in prior to the end of the draw.
At the end of the first recovery period, record the total energy consumed by the water heater from the beginning of the test (Q
r
), including all fossil fuel and/or electrical energy use, from the main heat source and auxiliary equipment including, but not limited to, burner(s), resistive elements(s), compressor, fan, controls, pump, etc., as applicable.
The standby period begins at five minutes after the first time a recovery ends following last draw of the simulated-use test and shall continue for 8 hours. At the end of the 8-hour standby period, record the total amount of time elapsed since the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test (
i.e.,
since τ = 0).
Determine and record the total electrical energy and/or fossil fuel consumed from the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the start of the 8-hour standby period (Q
su,0
). In preparation for determining the energy consumed during standby, record the reading(s) given on the electrical energy (watt-hour) meter, the gas meter, and/or the scale used to determine oil consumption, as appropriate. Record the ambient temperature and the electric and/or fuel instrument readings at 1-minute intervals until the end of the 8-hour period. At the 8-hour mark, deactivate the water heater before drawing water from the tank. Remove water from the storage tank by performing a continuous draw atthe flow rate specified for the first draw of applicable draw pattern for the 24-hour simulated use test in section 5.5 of this appendix within a tolerance of ±0.25 gallons per minute (±0.9 liters per minute). While removing the hot water, measure the inlet and outlet temperature after initiating the draw at 3-second intervals. Remove water until the outlet water temperature is within ±2 °F (±1.1 °C) of the inlet water temperature for 15 consecutive seconds. Determine the mean tank temperature using section 6.3.77 of this appendix and assign this value of
T
st
for
T
su,f
and
T
24
.
Determine the total electrical energy and/or fossil fuel energy consumption from the beginning of the test to the end of the standby period (Q
su,f
). Record the time interval between the start of the standby period and the end of the standby period as τ
stby,1
. Record the average ambient temperature from the start of the standby period to the end of the standby period (T
a,stby,1
). The average mean tank temperature from the start of the standby period to the end of the standby period (T
t,stby,1
) shall be the average of T
su,0
and T
su,f.
5.4.3
Test Sequence for Water Heaters With Rated Storage Volume Less Than 2 Gallons.
Establish normal operation with the discharge water temperature at 125 °F ± 5 °F (51.7 °C ± 2.8 °C) and set the flow rate as determined in section 5.2 of this appendix. Prior to commencement of the 24-hour simulated-use test, the unit shall remain in an idle state in which controls are active but no water is drawn through the unit for a period of one hour. With no draw occurring, record the reading given by the gas meter and/or the electrical energy meter as appropriate. Begin the 24-hour simulated-use test by withdrawing the volume specified in Tables III.1 through III.4 of section 5.5 of this appendix for the first draw at the flow rate specified. Record the time when this first draw is initiated and designate it as an elapsed time, τ, of 0. At the elapsed times specified in Tables III.1 through III.4 for a particular draw pattern, initiate additional draws, removing the volume of hot water at the prescribed flow rate specified in Tables III.1 through III.4. The maximum allowable deviation from the specified volume of water removed for any single draw taken at a nominal flow rate less than or equal to 1.7 GPM (6.4 L/min) is ±0.1 gallons (±0.4 liters). The maximum allowable deviation from the specified volume of water removed for any single draw taken at a nominal flow rate of 3.0 GPM (11.4 L/min) is ±0.25 gallons (0.9 liters). The quantity of water drawn during the final draw shall be increased or decreased as necessary such that the total volume of water withdrawn equals the prescribed daily amount for that draw pattern ±1.0 gallon (±3.8 liters). If this adjustment to the volume drawn in the last draw results in no draw taking place, the test is considered invalid.
All draws during the 24-hour simulated-use test shall be made at the flow rates specified in the applicable draw pattern table in section 5.5 of this appendix within a tolerance of ±0.25 gallons per minute (±0.9 liters per minute) unless the unit being tested is flow-activated and has a rated Max GPM of less than 1 gallon per minute, in which case the tolerance shall be ±25% of the rated Max GPM. Measurements of the inlet and outlet water temperatures shall be made 15 seconds after the draw is initiated and at every 3-second interval thereafter throughout the duration of the draw. Calculate the mean of the hot water discharge temperature and the cold-water inlet temperature for each draw. Record the mass of the withdrawn water or the water meter reading, as appropriate,
after each draw. At the end of the first recovery period following the first draw, determine and record the fossil fuel and/or electrical energy consumed, Q
r
. Following the final draw and subsequent recovery, allow the water heater to remain in the standby mode until exactly 24 hours have elapsed since the start of the test (
i.e.,
since τ = 0). At 24 hours, record the reading given by the gas meter, oil meter, and/or the electrical energy meter, as appropriate. Determine the fossil fuel and/or electrical energy consumed during the entire 24-hour simulated-use test and designate the quantity as Q.
5.5
Draw Patterns.
The draw patterns to be imposed during 24-hour simulated-use tests are provided in Tables III.1 through III.4. Subject each water heater under test to one of these draw patterns based on its first-hour rating or maximum GPM rating, as discussed in section 5.4.1 of this appendix. Each draw pattern specifies the elapsed time in hours and minutes during the 24-hour test when a draw is to commence, the total volume of water in gallons (liters) that is to be removed during each draw, and the flow rate at which each draw is to be taken, in gallons (liters) per minute.
Table III.1—Very-Small-Usage Draw Pattern
Draw No.
Time during test **
[hh:mm]
Volume
[gallons (L)]
Flow rate ***
[GPM (L/min)]
1 *
0:00
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
2 *
1:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
3 *
1:05
0.5 (1.9)
1 (3.8)
4 *
1:10
0.5 (1.9)
1 (3.8)
5 *
1:15
0.5 (1.9)
1 (3.8)
6
8:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
7
8:15
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
8
9:00
1.5 (5.7)
1 (3.8)
9
9:15
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
Total Volume Drawn Per Day: 10 gallons (38 L)
* Denotes draws in first draw cluster.
** If a draw extends to the start of the subsequent draw, then the subsequent draw shall start when the required volume of the previous draw has been delivered.
*** Should the water heater have a maximum GPM rating less than 1 GPM (3.8 L/min), then all draws shall be implemented at a flow rate equal to the rated maximum GPM.
Table III.2—Low-Usage Draw Pattern
Draw No.
Time during test
[hh:mm]
Volume
[gallons (L)]
Flow rate
[GPM (L/min)]
1 *
0:00
15.0 (56.8)
1.7 (6.4)
2 *
0:30
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
3 *
1:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
4
10:30
6.0 (22.7)
1.7 (6.4)
5
11:30
4.0 (15.1)
1.7 (6.4)
6
12:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
7
12:45
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
8
12:50
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
9
16:15
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
10
16:45
2.0 (7.6)
1.7 (6.4)
11
17:00
3.0 (11.4)
1.7 (6.4)
Total Volume Drawn Per Day: 38 gallons (144 L)
*Denotes draws in first draw cluster.
Table III.3—Medium-Usage Draw Pattern
Draw No.
Time during test
[hh:mm]
Volume
[gallons (L)]
Flow Rate
[GPM (L/min)]
1 *
0:00
15.0 (56.8)
1.7 (6.4)
2 *
0:30
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
3 *
1:40
9.0 (34.1)
1.7 (6.4)
4
10:30
9.0 (34.1)
1.7 (6.4)
5
11:30
5.0 (18.9)
1.7 (6.4)
6
12:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
7
12:45
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
8
12:50
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
9
16:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
10
16:15
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
11
16:45
2.0 (7.6)
1.7 (6.4)
12
17:00
7.0 (26.5)
1.7 (6.4)
Total Volume Drawn Per Day: 55 gallons (208 L)
* Denotes draws in first draw cluster.
Table III.4—High-Usage Draw Pattern
Draw No.
Time during test
[hh:mm]
Volume
[gallons (L)]
Flow rate
[GPM (L/min)]
1 *
0:00
27.0 (102)
3 (11.4)
2 *
0:30
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
3 *
0:40
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
4 *
1:40
9.0 (34.1)
1.7 (6.4)
5
10:30
15.0 (56.8)
3 (11.4)
6
11:30
5.0 (18.9)
1.7 (6.4)
7
12:00
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
8
12:45
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
9
12:50
1.0 (3.8)
1 (3.8)
10
16:00
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
11
16:15
2.0 (7.6)
1 (3.8)
12
16:30
2.0 (7.6)
1.7 (6.4)
13
16:45
2.0 (7.6)
1.7 (6.4)
14
17:00
14.0 (53.0)
3 (11.4)
Total Volume Drawn Per Day: 84 gallons (318 L)
* Denotes draws in first draw cluster.
5.6
Optional Tests (Heat Pump-Type Water Heaters).
Optional testing may be conducted on heat pump-type water heaters to determine E
X
. If optional testing is performed, conduct the additional 24-hour simulated use test(s) at one or multiple of the test conditions specified in section 2.8 of this appendix. Prior to conducting a 24-hour simulated use test at an optional condition, confirm the air and water conditions specified in section 2.8 are met and re-set the outlet discharge temperature in accordance with section 5.2.2 of this appendix. Perform the optional 24-hour simulated use test(s) in accordance with section 5.4 of this appendix using the same draw pattern used for the determination of UEF.

# 6. Computations.
6.1
First-Hour Rating Computation.
For the case in which the final draw is initiated at or prior to one hour from the start of the test, the first-hour rating, F
hr
, shall be computed using,
ER21JN23.007
Where:
n = the number of draws that are completed during the first-hour rating test.
V*
del,i
= the volume of water removed during the
i
th draw of the first-hour rating test, gal (L) or, if the mass of water removed is being measured,
ER21JN23.008
Where:
M*
del,i
= the mass of water removed during the
i
th draw of the first-hour rating test, lb (kg).
ρ
del,i
= the density of water removed, evaluated at the average outlet water temperature measured during the
i
th draw of the first-hour rating test, (
T
*
del,i
), lb/gal (kg/L).
or, if the volume of the water entering the water heater is being measured,
ER21JN23.009
Where:
V*
in,i
= the volume of water entering the water heater during the
i
th draw of the first-hour rating test, gal (L).
ρ
in,i
= the density of water entering the water heater, evaluated at the average inlet water temperature measured during the
i
th draw of the first-hour rating test, (
T
*
in,i
), lb/gal (kg/L).
or, if the mass of water entering the water heater is being measured,
ER21JN23.010
Where:
M*
in,i
= the mass of water entering the water heater during the
i
th draw of the first-hour rating test, lb (kg).
For the case in which a draw is not in progress at one hour from the start of the test and a final draw is imposed at the elapsed time of one hour, the first-hour rating shall be calculated using,
ER21JN23.011
where n and V*
del,i
are the same quantities as defined above, and
V*
del,n
= the volume of water removed during the
n
th (final) draw of the first-hour rating test, gal (L).
T
*
del,n−1
= the average water outlet temperature measured during the
(n−1)
th draw of the first-hour rating test, °F ( °C).
T
*
del,n
= the average water outlet temperature measured during the
n
th (final) draw of the first-hour rating test, °F ( °C).
T*
min,n−1
= the minimum water outlet temperature measured during the
(n−1)
th draw of the first-hour rating test, °F ( °C).
6.2
Maximum GPM (L/min) Rating Computation.
Compute the maximum GPM (L/min) rating, F
max
, as:
ER21JN23.012
Where:
V
del,10m
= the volume of water removed during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test, gal (L).
T
del
= the average delivery temperature, °F ( °C).
T
in
= the average inlet temperature, °F ( °C).
10 = the number of minutes in the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test, min.
or, if the mass of water removed is measured,
ER21JN23.013
Where:
M
del,10m
= the mass of water removed during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test, lb (kg).
ρ
del
= the density of water removed, evaluated at the average delivery water temperature of the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test (
T
del
), lb/gal (kg/L).
or, if the volume of water entering the water heater is measured,
ER21JN23.014
Where:
V
in,10m
= the volume of water entering the water heater during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test, gal (L).
ρ
in
= the density of water entering the water heater, evaluated at the average inlet water temperature of the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test (
T
del
), lb/gal (kg/L).
or, if the mass of water entering the water heater is measured,
ER21JN23.015
Where:
M
in,10m
= the mass of water entering the water heater during the maximum GPM (L/min) rating test, lb (kg).
6.3
Computations for Water Heaters with a Rated Storage Volume Greater Than or Equal to 2 Gallons and Circulating Water Heaters.
6.3.1
Storage Tank Capacity.
The storage tank capacity, V
st
, is computed as follows:
ER21JN23.016
Where:
V
st
= the storage capacity of the water heater, or, for circulating water heaters, the storage capacity of the separate storage tank used in accordance with section 4.10, gal (L).
W
f
= the weight of the storage tank when completely filled with water, lb (kg).
W
t
= the (tare) weight of the storage tank when completely empty, lb (kg).
ρ = the density of water used to fill the tank measured at the temperature of the water, lb/gal (kg/L).
6.3.1.1
Effective Storage Volume.
The effective storage tank capacity, V
eff
, is computed as follows:
For water heaters requiring a separate storage tank, V
eff
is the storage tank capacity of the separate storage tank as determined per section 6.3.1.
For all other water heaters:
V
eff
=
k
V
V
st
Where:
V
st
= as defined in section 6.3.1 and
k
V
= a dimensionless volume scaling factor determined as follows:
If the first recovery period extends into the second draw of the 24-hour simulated use test, and
If
T
0
(
T
del,1
+ 5 °F) and
T
0
≥ 130 °F,
(if
T
0
(
T
del,1
+ 2.8 °C) and
T
0
≥ 54.4 °C),
ER21JN23.017
ER21JN23.018
If the first recovery period does not extend into the second draw of the 24-hour simulated use test, and
If
T
max,1
(
T
del,2
+ 5 °F) and
T
max,1
≥ 130 °F,
(if
T
max,1
(
T
del,2
+ 2.8 °C) and
T
max,1
≥ 54.4 °C),
ER21JN23.019
ER21JN23.020
Otherwise, k
V
= 1.
Where:
T
0
= the mean tank temperature at the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F( °C).
T
del,1
= the average outlet water temperature during the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F( °C).
ρ(
T
0
) = the density of the stored hot water evaluated at the mean tank temperature at the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test (
T
0
), lb/gal (kg/L).
C
p
(
T
0
) = the specific heat of the stored hot water, evaluated at
T
0
, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
T
max,1
= the maximum measured mean tank temperature after cut-out following the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F( °C).
T
del,2
= the average outlet water temperature during the second draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F( °C).
ρ(
T
max,1
) = the density of the stored hot water evaluated at the maximum measured mean tank temperature after cut-out following the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test (
T
max,1
), lb/gal (kg/L).
C
p
(
T
max,1
) = the specific heat of the stored hot water, evaluated at
T
max,1
, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
ρ(125 °F) = the density of the stored hot water at 125 °F, lb/gal (kg/L).
C
p
(125 °F) = the specific heat of the stored hot water at 125 °F, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
125 °F (51.7 °C) = the nominal maximum mean tank temperature for a storage tank that does not utilize a mixing valve to achieve a 125 °F delivery temperature.
67.5 °F (19.7 °C) = the nominal average ambient air temperature.
6.3.2
Mass of Water Removed.
Determine the mass of water removed during each draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test (M
del,i
) as:
If the mass of water removed is measured, use the measured value, or, if the volume of water removed is being measured,
M
del,i
=
V
del,i
*
P
del,i
Where:
V
del,i
= volume of water removed during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, gal (L).
ρ
del,i
= density of the water removed, evaluated at the average outlet water temperature measured during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, (
T
del,i
), lb/gal (kg/L).
or, if the volume of water entering the water heater is measured,
M
del,i
=
V
in,i
* ρ
in,i
Where:
V
in,i
= volume of water entering the water heater during draw
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, gal (L).
ρ
in,i
= density of the water entering the water heater, evaluated at the average inlet water temperature measured during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, (
T
in,i
), lb/gal (kg/L).
or, if the mass of water entering the water heater is measured,
M
del,i
=
M
in,i
Where:
M
in,i
= mass of water entering the water heater during draw
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, lb (kg).
6.3.3
Recovery Efficiency.
The recovery efficiency for gas, oil, and heat pump water heaters with a rated storage volume greater than or equal to 2 gallons, η
r,
is computed as:
ER21JN23.021
Where:
V
st
= as defined in section 6.3.1 of this appendix.
ρ
1
= density of stored hot water evaluated at (
T
max,1
+
T
0
)/2, lb/gal (kg/L).
C
p1
= specific heat of the stored hot water, evaluated at (
T
max,1
+
T
0
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C).
T
max,1
= maximum mean tank temperature recorded after the first recovery period as defined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
T
0
= mean tank temperature recorded at the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
Q
r
= the total energy used by the water heater during the first recovery period as defined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, including auxiliary energy such as pilot lights, pumps, fans,
etc.,
Btu (kJ). (Electrical auxiliary energy shall be converted to thermal energy using the following conversion: 1 kWh = 3412 Btu).
N
r
= number of draws from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the end to the first recovery period as described in section 5.4.2.
M
del,i
= mass of water removed as calculated in section 6.3.2 of this appendix during the
i
th draw of the first recovery period as described in section 5.4.2, lb (kg).
C
pi
= specific heat of the withdrawn water during the
i
th draw of the first recovery period as described in section 5.4.2, evaluated at (
T
del,i
+
T
in,i
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
T
del,i
= average water outlet temperature measured during the
i
th draw of the first recovery period as described in section 5.4.2, °F ( °C).
T
in,i
= average water inlet temperature measured during the
i
th draw of the first recovery period as described in section 5.4.2, °F ( °C).
The recovery efficiency for electric water heaters with immersed heating elements, not including heat pump water heaters with immersed heating elements, is assumed to be 98 percent.
6.3.4
Hourly Standby Losses.
The energy consumed as part of the standby loss test of the 24-hour simulated-use test, Q
stby,
is computed as:
Q
stby
= Q
su,f
− Q
su,o
Where:
Q
su,0
= cumulative energy consumption, including all fossil fuel and electrical energy use, of the water heater from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the start of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
Q
su,f
= cumulative energy consumption, including all fossil fuel and electrical energy use, of the water heater from the start of the 24-hour simulated-use test to the end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
The hourly standby energy losses are computed as:
ER21JN23.022
Where:
Q
hr
= the hourly standby energy losses of the water heater, Btu/h (kJ/h).
V
st
= as defined in section 6.3.1 of this appendix.
ρ = density of the stored hot water, evaluated at (
T
su,f
+
T
su,0
)/2, lb/gal (kg/L).
C
p
= specific heat of the stored water, evaluated at (
T
su,f
+
T
su,0
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F), (kJ/(kg·K)).
T
su,f
= the mean tank temperature measured at the end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
T
su,0
= the maximum mean tank temperature measured at the beginning of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
η
r
= as defined in section 6.3.3 of this appendix.
τ
stby,1
= elapsed time between the start and end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, h.
The standby heat loss coefficient for the tank is computed as:
ER21JN23.023
Where:
UA = standby heat loss coefficient of the storage tank, Btu/(h· °F), (kJ/(h· °C).
T
t,stby,1
= overall average mean tank temperature between the start and end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
T
a,stby,1
= overall average ambient temperature between the start and end of the standby period as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
6.3.5
Daily Water Heating Energy Consumption.
The total energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test (Q) is as measured in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, or,
Q = Q
f
+ Q
e
= total energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test, including auxiliary energy such as pilot lights, pumps, fans, etc., Btu (kJ).
Q
f
= total fossil fuel energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test, Btu (kJ).
Q
e
= total electrical energy used during the 24-hour simulated-use test, Btu (kJ). (Electrical energy shall be converted to thermal energy using the following conversion: 1kWh = 3412 Btu.)
The daily water heating energy consumption, Q
d
, is computed as:
ER21JN23.024
Where:
V
st
= as defined in section 6.3.1 of this appendix.
ρ = density of the stored hot water, evaluated at (
T
24
+
T
0
)/2, lb/gal (kg/L).
C
p
= specific heat of the stored water, evaluated at (
T
24
+
T
0
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F), (kJ/(kg·K)).
T
24
= mean tank temperature at the end of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
T
0
= mean tank temperature recorded at the beginning of the 24-hour simulated-use test as determined in section 5.4.2 of this appendix, °F ( °C).
η
r
= as defined in section 6.3.3 of this appendix.
6.3.6
Adjusted Daily Water Heating Energy Consumption.
The adjusted daily water heating energy consumption, Q
da,
takes into account that the ambient temperature may differ from the nominal value of 67.5 °F (19.7 °C) due to the allowable variation in surrounding ambient temperature of 65 °F (18.3 °C) to 70 °C (21.1 °C). The adjusted daily water heating energy consumption is computed as:
Q
da
= Q
d
− (67.5 °C −
T
a,stby,2
) UA τ
stby,2
or,
Q
da
= Q
d
− (19.7 °C −
T
a,stby,2
) UA τ
stby,2
Where:
Q
da
= the adjusted daily water heating energy consumption, Btu (kJ).
Q
d
= as defined in section 6.3.4 of this appendix.
T
a,stby,2
= the average ambient temperature during the total standby portion, τ
stby,2
, of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F ( °C).
UA = as defined in section 6.3.4 of this appendix.
τ
stby,2
= the number of hours during the 24-hour simulated-use test when water is not being withdrawn from the water heater.
A modification is also needed to take into account that the temperature difference between the outlet water temperature and supply water temperature may not be equivalent to the nominal value of 67 °F (125 °F-58 °F) or 37.3 °C (51.7 °C-14.4 °C). The following equations adjust the experimental data to a nominal 67 °F (37.3 °C) temperature rise.
The energy used to heat water, Btu/day (kJ/day), may be computed as:
ER21JN23.025
Where:
N = total number of draws in the 24-hour simulated-use test.
M
del,i
= the mass of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) as calculated in section 6.3.2 of this appendix, lb (kg).
C
pi
= the specific heat of the water withdrawn during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, evaluated at (
T
del,i
+
T
in,i
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
T
del,i
= the average water outlet temperature measured during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N), °F ( °C).
T
in,i
= the average water inlet temperature measured during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N), °F ( °C).
η
r
= as defined in section 6.3.3 of this appendix.
The energy required to heat the same quantity of water over a 67 °F (37.3 °C) temperature rise, Btu/day (kJ/day), is:
ER21JN23.026
or,
ER21JN23.027
The difference between these two values is:
Q
HWD
= Q
HW,67. °F
− Q
HW
or,
Q
HWD
= Q
HW,37.3 °C
− Q
HW
This difference (Q
HWD
) must be added to the adjusted daily water heating energy consumption value. Thus, the daily energy consumption value, which takes into account that the ambient temperature may not be 67.5 °F (19.7 °C) and that the temperature rise across the storage tank may not be 67 °F (37.3 °C) is:
Q
dm
= Q
da
− Q
HWD
6.3.7
Estimated Mean Tank Temperature for Water Heaters with Rated Storage Volumes Greater Than or Equal to 2 Gallons.
If testing is conducted in accordance with section 5.4.2.2 of this appendix, calculate the mean tank temperature immediately prior to the internal tank temperature determination draw using the following equation:
ER21JN23.028
Where:
T
st
= the estimated average internal storage tank temperature, °F ( °C).
T
p
= the average of the inlet and the outlet water temperatures at the end of the period defined by τ
p
, °F ( °C).
v
out,p
= the average flow rate during the period, gal/min (L/min).
V
st
= the rated storage volume of the water heater, gal (L).
τ
p
= the number of minutes in the duration of the period, determined by the length of
time taken for the outlet water temperature to be within 2 °F of the inlet water temperature for 15 consecutive seconds and including the 15-second stabilization period.
T
in,p
= the average of the inlet water temperatures during the period, °F ( °C).
T
out,p
= the average of the outlet water temperatures during the period, °F ( °C).
6.3.8
Uniform Energy Factor.
The uniform energy factor, UEF, is computed as:
ER21JN23.029
Where:
N = total number of draws in the 24-hour simulated-use test.
Q
dm
= the modified daily water heating energy consumption as computed in accordance with section 6.3.6 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
M
del,i
= the mass of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) as calculated in section 6.3.2 of this appendix, lb (kg).
C
pi
= the specific heat of the water withdrawn during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, evaluated at (125 °F + 58 °F)/2 = 91.5 °F ((51.7 °C + 14.4 °C)/2 = 33 °C), Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
6.3.9
Annual Energy Consumption.
The annual energy consumption for water heaters with rated storage volumes greater than or equal to 2 gallons is computed as:
ER21JN23.030
Where:
UEF = the uniform energy factor as computed in accordance with section 6.3.88 of this appendix.
365 = the number of days in a year.
V = the volume of hot water drawn during the applicable draw pattern, gallons.
= 10 for the very-small-usage draw pattern.
= 38 for the low-usage draw pattern.
= 55 for the medium-usage draw pattern.
= 84 for high-usage draw pattern.
ρ = 8.24 lb/gallon, the density of water at 125 °F.
C
p
= 1.00 Btu/(lb °F), the specific heat of water at 91.5 °F.
67 = the nominal temperature difference between inlet and outlet water
6.3.10
Annual Electrical Energy Consumption.
The annual electrical energy consumption in kilowatt-hours for water heaters with rated storage volumes greater than or equal to 2 gallons, E
annual,e,
is computed as:
ER21JN23.031
Where:
E
annual
= the annual energy consumption as determined in accordance with section 6.3.99 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
Q
e
= the daily electrical energy consumption as defined in section 6.3.5 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
Q = total energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test in accordance with section 6.3.5 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
3412 = conversion factor from Btu to kWh.
6.3.11
Annual Fossil Fuel Energy Consumption.
The annual fossil fuel energy consumption for water heaters with rated storage volumes greater than or equal to 2 gallons, E
annual,f,
is computed as:
E
annual,f
=
E
annual
−(
E
annual,e
* 3412)
Where:
E
annual
= the annual energy consumption as determined in accordance with section 6.3.9 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
E
annual,e
= the annual electrical energy consumption as determined in accordance with section 6.3.10 of this appendix, kWh.
3412 = conversion factor from kWh to Btu.
6.4
Computations for Water Heaters with a Rated Storage Volume Less Than 2 Gallons.
6.4.1
Mass of Water Removed
Calculate the mass of water removed using the calculations in section 6.3.2 of this appendix.
6.4.2
Recovery Efficiency.
The recovery efficiency, η
r,
is computed as:
ER21JN23.032
Where:
M
1
= mass of water removed during the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, lb (kg).
C
p1
= specific heat of the withdrawn water during the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, evaluated at (
T
del,1
+
T
in,1
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
T
del,1
= average water outlet temperature measured during the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F ( °C).
T
in,1
= average water inlet temperature measured during the first draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, °F ( °C).
Q
r
= the total energy used by the water heater during the first recovery period as defined in section 5.4.3 of this appendix, including auxiliary energy such as pilot lights, pumps, fans, etc., Btu (kJ). (Electrical auxiliary energy shall be converted to thermal energy using the following conversion: 1 kWh = 3412 Btu.)
6.4.3
Daily Water Heating Energy Consumption.
The daily water heating energy consumption, Q
d,
is computed as:
Q
d
=
Q
Where:
Q = Q
f
+ Q
e
= the energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test.
Q
f
= total fossil fuel energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test, Btu (kJ).
Q
e
= total electrical energy used during the 24-hour simulated-use test, Btu (kJ). (Electrical auxiliary energy shall be converted to thermal energy using the following conversion: 1 kWh = 3412 Btu.)
A modification is needed to take into account that the temperature difference between the outlet water temperature and supply water temperature may not be equivalent to the nominal value of 67 °F (125 °F−58 °F) or 37.3 °C (51.7 °C−14.4 °C). The following equations adjust the experimental data to a nominal 67 °F (37.3 °C) temperature rise.
The energy used to heat water may be computed as:
ER21JN23.033
Where:
N = total number of draws in the 24-hour simulated-use test.
M
del,i
= the mass of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) as calculated in section 6.4.1 of this appendix, lb (kg).
C
pi
= the specific heat of the water withdrawn during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, evaluated at (
T
del,i
+
T
in,i
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
T
del,i
= the average water outlet temperature measured during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N), °F ( °C).
T
in,i
= the average water inlet temperature measured during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N), °F ( °C).
η
r
= as defined in section 6.4.2 of this appendix.
The energy required to heat the same quantity of water over a 67 °F (37.3 °C) temperature rise is:
ER21JN23.034
Where:
N = total number of draws in the 24-hour simulated-use test.
M
del,i
= the mass of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) as calculated in section 6.4.1 of this appendix, lb (kg).
C
pi
= the specific heat of the water withdrawn during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, evaluated at (
T
del,i
+
T
in,i
)/2, Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
η
r
= as defined in section 6.4.2 of this appendix.
The difference between these two values is:
Q
HWD
=
Q
HW,67 °F
−
Q
HW
or,
Q
HWD
=
Q
HW,37.3 °C
−
Q
HW
This difference (Q
HWD
) must be added to the daily water heating energy consumption value. Thus, the daily energy consumption value, which takes into account that the temperature rise across the water heater may not be 67 °F (37.3 °C), is:
Q
dm
= Q
da
+ Q
HWD
6.4.4
Uniform Energy Factor.
The uniform energy factor, UEF, is computed as:
ER21JN23.035
Where:
N = total number of draws in the 24-hour simulated-use test.
Q
dm
= the modified daily water heating energy consumption as computed in accordance with section 6.4.3 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
M
del,i
= the mass of water removed during the
i
th draw (i = 1 to N) as calculated in section 6.4.1 of this appendix, lb (kg).
C
pi
= the specific heat of the water withdrawn during the
i
th draw of the 24-hour simulated-use test, evaluated at (125 °F + 58 °F)/2 = 91.5 °F ((51.7 °C + 14.4 °C)/2 = 33.1 °C), Btu/(lb· °F) (kJ/(kg· °C)).
6.4.5
Annual Energy Consumption.
The annual energy consumption for water heaters with rated storage volumes less than 2 gallons, E
annual,
is computed as:
ER21JN23.036
Where:
UEF = the uniform energy factor as computed in accordance with section 6.4.4 of this appendix.
365 = the number of days in a year.
V = the volume of hot water drawn during the applicable draw pattern, gallons.
= 10 for the very-small-usage draw pattern.
= 38 for the low-usage draw pattern.
= 55 for the medium-usage draw pattern.
= 84 for high-usage draw pattern.
ρ = 8.24 lb/gallon, the density of water at 125 °F.
C
p
= 1.00 Btu/(lb °F), the specific heat of water at 91.5 °F.
67 = the nominal temperature difference between inlet and outlet water.
6.4.6
Annual Electrical Energy Consumption.
The annual electrical energy consumption in kilowatt-hours for water heaters with rated storage volumes less than 2 gallons, E
annual,e,
is computed as:
ER21JN23.037
Where:
Q
e
= the daily electrical energy consumption as defined in section 6.4.3 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
E
annual
= the annual energy consumption as determined in accordance with section 6.4.5 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
Q = total energy used by the water heater during the 24-hour simulated-use test in accordance with section 6.4.3 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
Q
dm
= the modified daily water heating energy consumption as computed in accordance with section 6.4.3 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
3412 = conversion factor from Btu to kWh.
6.4.7
Annual Fossil Fuel Energy Consumption.
The annual fossil fuel energy consumption for water heaters with rated storage volumes less than 2 gallons, E
annual,f,
is computed as:
Where:
E
annual
= the annual energy consumption as defined in section 6.4.5 of this appendix, Btu (kJ).
E
annual,e
= the annual electrical energy consumption as defined in section 6.4.6 of this appendix, kWh.
3412 = conversion factor from kWh to Btu.
6.5
Energy Efficiency at Optional Test Conditions.
If testing is conducted at optional test conditions in accordance with section 5.6 of this appendix, calculate the energy efficiency at the test condition, E
X,
using the formulas in sections 6.3 or 6.4 of this appendix (as applicable), except substituting the applicable ambient temperature and supply water temperature used for testing (as specified in section 2.8 of this appendix) for the nominal ambient temperature and supply water temperature conditions used in the equations for determining UEF (
i.e.,
67.5 °F and 58 °F).

# 7. Test Set-Up Diagrams
ER21JN23.038
ER21JN23.039
ER21JN23.040
ER21JN23.041
[88 FR 40473, June 21, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 37943, May 6, 2204]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. F

# Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Room Air Conditioners

# Note:
On or after September 27, 2021, any representations made with respect to the energy use or efficiency of room air conditioners must be made in accordance with the results of testing pursuant to this appendix.
Prior to September 27, 2021, manufacturers must either test room air conditioners in accordance with this appendix, or the previous version of this appendix as it appeared in the Code of Federal Regulations on January 1, 2020. DOE notes that, because representations made on or after September 27, 2021 must be made in accordance with this appendix, manufacturers may wish to begin using this test procedure immediately.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference the entire standard for AHAM RAC-1, ANSI/ASHRAE 16, ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1, ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992), ASHRAE 41.3-2014, ASHRAE 41.6-2014, ASHRAE 41.11-2014 and IEC 62301 in § 430.3. However, only enumerated provisions of AHAM RAC-1 and ANSI/ASHRAE 16 apply to this appendix, as follows:
(1) ANSI/AHAM RAC-1:
(i) Section 4—Testing Conditions, Section 4.1—General
(ii) Section 5—Standard Measurement Test, Section 5.2—Standard Test Conditions: 5.2.1.1
(iii) Section 6—Tests and Measurements, Section 6.1—Cooling capacity
(iv) Section 6— Tests and Measurements, Section 6.2—Electrical Input
(2) ANSI/ASHRAE 16:
(i) Section 3—Definitions
(ii) Section 5—Instruments
(iii) Section 6—Apparatus, Section 6.1—Calorimeters, Sections 6.1.1-6.1.1., 6.1.1.3a, 6.1.1.4-6.1.4, including Table 1
(iv) Section 7—Methods of Testing, Section 7.1—Standard Test Methods, Section 7.1a, 7.1.1a
(v) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.1—General
(vi) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.2—Test Room Requirements
(viii) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.3—Air Conditioner Break-In
(ix) Section 8—Test Procedures, Section 8.4—Air Conditioner Installation
(x) Section 8 —Test Procedures, Section 8.5—Cooling Capacity Test
(xi) Section 9—Data To Be Recorded, Section 9.1
(xii) Section 10—Measurement Uncertainty
(xiii) Normative Appendix A Cooling Capacity Calculations—Calorimeter Test Indoor and Calorimeter Test Outdoor
If there is any conflict between any industry standard(s) and this appendix, follow the language of the test procedure in this appendix, disregarding the conflicting industry standard language.

# Scope
This appendix contains the test requirements to measure the energy performance of a room air conditioner.

# 2. Definitions
2.1 “Active mode” means a mode in which the room air conditioner is connected to a mains power source, has been activated and is performing any of the following functions: Cooling or heating the conditioned space, or circulating air through activation of its fan or blower, with or without energizing active air-cleaning components or devices such as ultra-violet (UV) radiation, electrostatic filters, ozone generators, or other air-cleaning devices.
2.2 “ANSI/AHAM RAC-1” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, titled “Energy Measurement Test Procedure for Room Air Conditioners,” Standard RAC-1-2020 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.3 “ANSI/ASHRAE 16” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers titled “Method of Testing for Rating Room Air Conditioners and Packaged Terminal Air Conditioners,” Standard 16-2016 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.4 “ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers titled “Standard Method for Temperature Measurement,” Standard 41.1-2013 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.5 “ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992)” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers titled “Standard Methods for Laboratory Airflow Measurement,” Standard 41.2-1987 (RA 1992) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.6 “ASHRAE 41.3-2014” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers titled “Standard Methods for Pressure Measurement,” Standard 41.3-2014 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.7 “ASHRAE 41.6-2014” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers titled “Standard Method for Humidity Measurement,” Standard 41.6-2014 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.8 “ASHRAE 41.11-2014” means the test standard published jointly by the American National Standards Institute and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers titled “Standard Methods for Power Measurement,” Standard 41.11-2014 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.9 “Combined energy efficiency ratio” means the energy efficiency of a room air conditioner in British thermal units per watt-hour (Btu/Wh) and determined in section 5.2.2 of this appendix for single-speed room air conditioners and section 5.3.12 of this appendix for variable-speed room air conditioners.
2.10 “Cooling capacity” means the amount of cooling, in British thermal units per hour (Btu/h), provided to a conditioned space, measured under the specified conditions and determined in section 4.1 of this appendix.
2.11 “Cooling mode” means an active mode in which a room air conditioner has activated the main cooling function according to the thermostat or temperature sensor signal or switch (including remote control).
2.12 “Full compressor speed (full)” means the compressor speed at which the unit operates at full load test conditions, when using user settings with a unit thermostat setpoint of 75 °F to achieve maximum cooling capacity, according to the instructions in ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 16-2016.
2.13 “IEC 62301” means the test standard published by the International Electrotechnical Commission, titled “Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power,” Publication 62301 (Edition 2.0 2011-01), (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.14 “Inactive mode” means a standby mode that facilitates the activation of active mode by remote switch (including remote control) or internal sensor or which provides continuous status display.
2.15 “Intermediate compressor speed (intermediate)” means the compressor speed higher than the low compressor speed at which the measured capacity is higher than the capacity at low compressor speed by one third of the difference between Capacity
4
, the measured cooling capacity at test condition 4 in Table 1 of this appendix, and Capacity
1
, the measured cooling capacity with the full compressor speed at test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix, with a tolerance of plus 5 percent (designs with non-discrete speed stages) or the next highest inverter frequency step (designs with discrete speed steps), achieved by following the instructions certified by the manufacturer.
2.16 “Low compressor speed (low)” means the compressor speed at which the unit operates at low load test conditions, achieved by following the instructions certified by the manufacturer, such that Capacity
4
, the measured cooling capacity at test condition 4 in Table 1 of this appendix, is no less than 47 percent and no greater than 57 percent of Capacity
1
, the measured cooling capacity with the full compressor speed at test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix.
2.17 “Off mode” means a mode in which a room air conditioner is connected to a mains power source and is not providing any active or standby mode function and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time, including an indicator that only shows the user that the product is in the off position.
2.18 “Single-speed room air conditioner” means a type of room air conditioner that cannot automatically adjust the compressor speed based on detected conditions.
2.19 “Standby mode” means any product mode where the unit is connected to a mains power source and offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions which may persist for an indefinite time:
(a) To facilitate the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer. A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that provides regular scheduled tasks (
e.g.,
switching) and that operates on a continuous basis.
(b) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions.
2.20 “Theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner” means a theoretical single-speed room air conditioner with the same cooling capacity and electrical power input as the variable-speed room air conditioner under test, with no cycling losses considered, at test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix.
2.21 “Variable-speed compressor” means a compressor that can vary its rotational speed in non-discrete stages or discrete steps from low to full.
2.22 “Variable-speed room air conditioner” means a type of room air conditioner that can automatically adjust compressor speed based on detected conditions.

# 3. Test Methods and General Instructions
3.1
Cooling mode.
The test method for testing room air conditioners in cooling mode (“cooling mode test”) consists of applying the methods and conditions in AHAM RAC-1 Section 4, Paragraph 4.1 and for single-speed room air conditioners, Section 5, Paragraph 5.2.1.1, and for variable-speed room air conditioners, Section 5, Paragraph 5.2.1.2, except in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 16, including the references to ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1, ANSI/ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992), ANSI/ASHRAE 41.3-2014, ANSI/ASHRAE 41.6-2014, and ANSI/ASHRAE 41.11-2014, all referenced therein, as defined in sections 2.3 through 2.8 of this appendix. Use the cooling capacity simultaneous indoor calorimeter and outdoor calorimeter test method in Section 7.1.a and Sections 8.1 through 8.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 16, except as otherwise specified in this appendix. If a unit can operate on multiple operating voltages as distributed in commerce by the manufacturer, test it and rate the corresponding basic models at all nameplate operating voltages. For a variable-speed room air conditioner, test the unit following the cooling mode test a total of four times: One test at each of the test conditions listed in Table 1 of this appendix, consistent with section 4.1 of this appendix.
3.1.1
Through-the-wall installation.
Install a non-louvered room air conditioner inside a compatible wall sleeve with the provided or manufacturer-required rear grille, and with only the included trim frame and other manufacturer-provided installation materials, per manufacturer instructions provided to consumers.
3.1.2
Power measurement accuracy.
All instruments used for measuring electrical inputs to the test unit, reconditioning equipment, and any other equipment that operates within the calorimeter walls must be accurate to ±0.5 percent of the quantity measured.
3.1.3
Electrical supply.
For cooling mode testing, test at each nameplate operating voltage, and maintain the input standard voltage within ±1 percent. Test at the rated frequency, maintained within ±1 percent.
3.1.4
Control settings.
If the room air conditioner has network capabilities, all network features must be disabled throughout testing.
3.1.5
Measurement resolution.
Record measurements at the resolution of the test instrumentation.
3.1.6
Temperature tolerances.
Maintain each of the measured chamber dry-bulb and wet-bulb temperatures within a range of 1.0 °F.
3.2
Standby and off modes.
3.2.1 Install the room air conditioner in accordance with Section 5, Paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301 and maintain the indoor test conditions (and outdoor test conditions where applicable) as required by Section 4, Paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301. If testing is not conducted in a facility used for testing cooling mode performance, the test facility must comply with Section 4, Paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301.
3.2.2
Electrical supply.
For standby mode and off mode testing, maintain the electrical supply voltage and frequency according to the requirements in Section 4, Paragraph 4.3.1 of IEC 62301.
3.2.3
Supply voltage waveform.
For the standby mode and off mode testing, maintain
the electrical supply voltage waveform indicated in Section 4, Paragraph 4.3.2 of IEC 62301.
3.2.4
Wattmeter.
The wattmeter used to measure standby mode and off mode power consumption must meet the resolution and accuracy requirements in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301.
3.2.5
Air ventilation damper.
If the unit is equipped with an outdoor air ventilation damper, close this damper during standby mode and off mode testing.

# 4. Test Conditions and Measurements
4.1
Cooling mode.
4.1.1
Temperature conditions.
Establish the test conditions described in Sections 4 and 5 of AHAM RAC-1 and in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 16, including the references to ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1 and ANSI/ASHRAE 41.6-2014, for cooling mode testing, with the following exceptions for variable-speed room air conditioners: Conduct the set of four cooling mode tests with the test conditions presented in Table 1 of this appendix. For test condition 1 and test condition 2, achieve the full compressor speed with user settings, as defined in section 2.12 of this appendix. For test condition 3 and test condition 4, set the required compressor speed in accordance with instructions the manufacturer provided to DOE.
Table 1—Indoor and Outdoor Inlet Air Test Conditions—Variable-Speed Room Air Conditioners
Test
condition
Evaporator inlet
(indoor) air, °F
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Condenser inlet
(outdoor) air, °F
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Compressor speed
Test Condition 1
80
67
95
75
Full.
Test Condition 2
80
67
92
72.5
Full.
Test Condition 3
80
67
87
69
Intermediate.
Test Condition 4
80
67
82
65
Low.
4.1.2
Cooling capacity and power measurements.
For single-speed units, measure the cooling mode cooling capacity (expressed in Btu/h), Capacity, and electrical power input (expressed in watts), P
cool,
in accordance with Section 6, Paragraphs 6.1 and 6.2 of AHAM RAC-1, respectively, and in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 16, including the references to ANSI/ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992) and ANSI/ASHRAE 41.11-2014. For variable-speed room air conditioners, measure the condition-specific cooling capacity (expressed in Btu/h), Capacity
tc
, and electrical power input (expressed in watts), P
tc
, for each of the four cooling mode rating test conditions (tc), as required in Section 6, Paragraphs 6.1 and 6.2, respectively, of AHAM RAC-1, respectively, and in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 16, including the references to ANSI/ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992) and ANSI/ASHRAE 41.11-2014.
4.2
Standby and off modes.
Establish the testing conditions set forth in section 3.2 of this appendix, ensuring the unit does not enter any active mode during the test. For a unit that drops from a higher power state to a lower power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 of IEC 62301, allow sufficient time for the room air conditioner to reach the lower power state before proceeding with the test measurement. Use the sampling method test procedure specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301 for testing all standby and off modes, with the following modifications: Allow the product to stabilize for 5 to 10 minutes and use an energy use measurement period of 5 minutes.
4.2.1 If the unit has an inactive mode, as defined in section 2.14 of this appendix, measure and record the average inactive mode power, Pia, in watts.
4.2.2 If the unit has an off mode, as defined in section 2.17 of this appendix, measure and record the average off mode power, P
om
, in watts.

# 5. Calculations
5.1
Annual energy consumption in inactive mode and off mode.
Calculate the annual energy consumption in inactive mode and off mode, AEC
ia/om,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/year).
AEC
ia/om
= (
P
ia
×
t
ia
+
P
om
×
t
om
)
Where:
AEC
ia/om
= annual energy consumption in inactive mode and off mode, in kWh/year.
P
ia
= average power in inactive mode, in watts, determined in section 4.2 of this appendix.
P
om
= average power in off mode, in watts, determined in section 4.2 of this appendix.
t
ia
= annual operating hours in inactive mode and multiplied by a 0.001 kWh/Wh conversion factor from watt-hours to kilowatt-hours. This value is 5.115 kWh/W if the unit has inactive mode and no off mode,
2.5575 kWh/W if the unit has both inactive and off mode, and 0 kWh/W if the unit does not have inactive mode.
t
om
= annual operating hours in off mode and multiplied by a 0.001 kWh/Wh conversion factor from watt-hours to kilowatt-hours. This value is 5.115 kWh/W if the unit has off mode and no inactive mode, 2.5575 kWh/W if the unit has both inactive and off mode, and 0 kWh/W if the unit does not have off mode.
5.2
Combined energy efficiency ratio for single-speed room air conditioners.
Calculate the combined energy efficiency ratio for single-speed room air conditioners as follows:
5.2.1
Single-speed room air conditioner annual energy consumption in cooling mode.
Calculate the annual energy consumption in cooling mode for a single-speed room air conditioner, AEC
cool,
expressed in kWh/year.
AEC
cool
= 0.75 ×
P
cool
Where:
AEC
cool
= single-speed room air conditioner annual energy consumption in cooling mode, in kWh/year.
P
cool
= single-speed room air conditioner average power in cooling mode, in watts, determined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix.
0.75 is 750 annual operating hours in cooling mode multiplied by a 0.001 kWh/Wh conversion factor from watt-hours to kilowatt-hours.
5.2.2
Single-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the combined energy efficiency ratio, CEER, expressed in Btu/Wh, as follows:
ER29MR21.002
Where:
CEER = combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh.
Capacity = single-speed room air conditioner cooling capacity, in Btu/h, determined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix.
AEC
cool
= single-speed room air conditioner annual energy consumption in cooling mode, in kWh/year, calculated in section 5.2.1 of this appendix.
AEC
ia/om
= annual energy consumption in inactive mode and off mode, in kWh/year, determined in section 5.1 of this appendix.
0.75 as defined in section 5.2.1 of this appendix.
5.3
Combined energy efficiency ratio for variable-speed room air conditioners.
Calculate the combined energy efficiency ratio for variable-speed room air conditioners as follows:
5.3.1
Weighted electrical power input.
Calculate the weighted electrical power input in cooling mode, P
wt,
expressed in watts, as follows:
P
wt
= Σ
tc
P
tc
×
W
tc
Where:
P
wt
= weighted electrical power input, in watts, in cooling mode.
P
tc
= electrical power input, in watts, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix.
W
tc
= weighting factors for each cooling mode test condition: 0.08 for test condition 1, 0.20 for test condition 2, 0.33 for test condition 3, and 0.39 for test condition 4. tc represents the cooling mode test condition: “1” for test condition 1 (95 °F condenser inlet dry-bulb temperature), “2” for test condition 2 (92 °F), “3” for test condition 3 (87 °F), and “4” for test condition 4 (82 °F).
5.3.2
Theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner.
Calculate the cooling capacity, expressed in Btu/h, and the electrical power input, expressed in watts, for a theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner at all cooling mode test conditions.
Capacity
ss__tc
= Capacity
1
× (1 + (M
c
× (95−T
tc
)))
P
ss__tc
= P
1
× (1−(M
p
× (95−T
tc
)))
Where:
Capacity
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner cooling capacity, in Btu/h, calculated for each of the cooling mode test conditions in Table 1 of this appendix.
Capacity
1
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's cooling capacity, in Btu/h, determined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix for test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix.
P
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner electrical power input, in watts, calculated for each of the
cooling mode test conditions in Table 1 of this appendix.
P
1
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's electrical power input, in watts, determined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix for test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix.
M
c
= adjustment factor to determine the increased capacity at lower outdoor test conditions, 0.0099 per °F.
M
p
= adjustment factor to determine the reduced electrical power input at lower outdoor test conditions, 0.0076 per °F.
95 is the condenser inlet dry-bulb temperature for test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix, 95 °F.
T
tc
= condenser inlet dry-bulb temperature for each of the test conditions in Table 1 of this appendix (in °F).
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.3
Variable-speed room air conditioner unit's annual energy consumption for cooling mode at each cooling mode test condition.
Calculate the annual energy consumption for cooling mode under each test condition, AEC
tc,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/year), as follows:
AEC
tc
= 0.75 ×
P
tc
Where:
AEC
tc
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's annual energy consumption, in kWh/year, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix.
P
tc
= as defined in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
0.75 as defined in section 5.2.1 of this appendix.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.4
Variable-speed room air conditioner weighted annual energy consumption.
Calculate the weighted annual energy consumption in cooling mode for a variable-speed room air conditioner, AEC
wt,
expressed in kWh/year.
AEC
wt
= Σ
tc
AEC
tc
×
W
tc
Where:
AEC
wt
= weighted annual energy consumption in cooling mode for a variable-speed room air conditioner, expressed in kWh/year.
AEC
tc
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's annual energy consumption, in kWh/year, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.3 of this appendix.
W
tc
= weighting factors for each cooling mode test condition: 0.08 for test condition 1, 0.20 for test condition 2, 0.33 for test condition 3, and 0.39 for test condition 4.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.5
Theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner annual energy consumption in cooling mode at each cooling mode test condition.
Calculate the annual energy consumption in cooling mode for a theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner for cooling mode under each test condition, AEC
ss__tc
, expressed in kWh/year.
AEC
ss__tc
= 0.75 ×
P
ss__tc
Where:
AEC
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner annual energy consumption, in kWh/year, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix.
P
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner electrical power input, in watts, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.2 of this appendix.
0.75 as defined in section 5.2.1 of this appendix.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.6
Variable-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio at each cooling mode test condition.
Calculate the variable-speed room air conditioner unit's combined energy efficiency ratio, CEER
tc
, for each test condition, expressed in Btu/Wh.
ER29MR21.003
Where:
CEER
tc
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix.
Capacity
tc
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's cooling capacity, in Btu/h, for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix.
AEC
tc
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's annual energy consumption, in kWh/year, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.3 of this appendix.
AEC
ia/om
= annual energy consumption in inactive mode and off mode, in kWh/year, determined in section 5.1 of this appendix.
0.75 as defined in section 5.2.1 of this appendix.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.7
Theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the combined energy efficiency ratio for a theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner, CEER
ss__tc
, for each test condition, expressed in Btu/Wh.
ER29MR21.004
Where:
CEER
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix.
Capacity
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner cooling capacity, in Btu/h, for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.2 of this appendix.
AEC
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner annual energy consumption, in kWh/year, in cooling mode for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.5 of this appendix.
AEC
ia/om
= annual energy consumption in inactive mode and off mode, in kWh/year, determined in section 5.1 of this appendix.
0.75 as defined in section 5.2.1 of this appendix.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.8
Theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner adjusted combined energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the adjusted combined energy efficiency ratio, for a theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner, CEER
ss__tc__adj
, with cycling losses considered, for each test condition, expressed in Btu/Wh.
CEER
ss__tc__adj
=
CEER
ss__tc
×
CLF
tc
Where:
CEER
ss__tc__adj
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner adjusted combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix.
CEER
ss__tc
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, for each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.7 of this appendix.
CLF
tc
= cycling loss factor for each test condition; 1 for test condition 1, 0.956 for test condition 2, 0.883 for test condition 3, and 0.810 for test condition 4.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.9
Weighted combined energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the weighted combined energy efficiency ratio for the variable-speed room air conditioner unit, CEER
wt
, and theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner, CEER
ss__wt
, expressed in Btu/Wh.
CEER
wt
= Σ
tc
CEER
tc
×
W
tc
CEER
ss__wt
= Σ
tc
CEER
ss__tc__adj
×
W
tc
Where:
CEER
wt
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's weighted combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh.
CEER
ss__wt
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner weighted combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh.
CEER
tc
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, at each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.6 of this appendix.
CEER
ss__tc__adj
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner adjusted combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, at each test condition in Table 1 of this appendix, determined in section 5.3.8 of this appendix.
W
tc
as defined in section 5.3.4 of this appendix.
tc as explained in section 5.3.1 of this appendix.
5.3.10
Variable-speed room air conditioner performance adjustment factor.
Calculate the variable-speed room air conditioner unit's performance adjustment factor, F
p.
ER29MR21.005
Where:
F
p
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's performance adjustment factor.
CEER
wt
= variable-speed room air conditioner unit's weighted combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, determined in section 5.3.9 of this appendix.
CEER
ss__wt
= theoretical comparable single-speed room air conditioner weighted combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh, determined in section 5.3.9 of this appendix.
5.3.11
Variable-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the combined energy efficiency ratio, CEER, expressed in Btu/Wh, for variable-speed air conditioners.
CEER
=
CEER
1
× (1 +
F
p
)
Where:
CEER = combined energy efficiency ratio, in Btu/Wh.
CEER
1
= variable-speed room air conditioner combined energy efficiency ratio for test condition 1 in Table 1 of this appendix, in Btu/Wh, determined in section 5.3.6 of this appendix.
F
p
= variable-speed room air conditioner performance adjustment factor, determined in section 5.3.10 of this appendix.
[86 FR 16476, Mar. 29, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 24484, May 7, 2021; 88 FR 59791, Aug. 30, 2023]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. G

# Appendix G to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Unvented Home Heating Equipment

# 1. Testing conditions.
1.1
Installation.
1.1.1
Electric heater.
Install heater according to manufacturer's instructions. Heaters shall be connected to an electrical supply circuit of nameplate voltage with a wattmeter installed in the circuit. The wattmeter shall have a maximum error not greater than one percent.
1.1.2
Unvented gas heater.
Install heater according to manufacturer's instructions. Heaters shall be connected to a gas supply line with a gas displacement meter installed between the supply line and the heater according to manufacturer's specifications. The gas displacement meter shall have a maximum error not greater than one percent. Gas heaters with electrical auxiliaries shall be connected to an electrical supply circuit of nameplate voltage with a wattmeter installed in the circuit. The wattmeter shall have a maximum error not greater than one percent.
1.1.3
Unvented oil heater.
Install heater according to manufacturer's instructions. Oil heaters with electric auxiliaries shall be connected to an electrical supply circuit of nameplate voltage with a wattmeter installed in the circuit. The wattmeter shall have a maximum error not greater than one percent.
1.2
Temperature regulating controls.
All temperature regulating controls shall be shorted out of the circuit or adjusted so that they will not operate during the test period.
1.3
Fan controls.
All fan controls shall be set at the highest fan speed setting.
1.4
Energy supply.
1.4.1
Electrical supply.
Supply power to the heater within one percent of the nameplate voltage.
1.4.2
Natural gas supply.
For an unvented gas heater utilizing natural gas, maintain the gas supply to the heater with a normal inlet test pressure immediately ahead of all controls at 7 to 10 inches of water column. The regulator outlet pressure at normal supply test pressure shall be approximately that recommended by the manufacturer. The natural gas supplied should have a higher heating value within ±5 percent of 1,025 Btu's per standard cubic foot. Determine the higher heating value, in Btu's per standard cubic foot, for the natural gas to be used in the test, with an error no greater than one percent. Alternatively, the test can be conducted using “bottled” natural gas of a higher heating value within ±5 percent of 1,025 Btu's per standard cubic foot as long as the actual higher heating value of the bottled natural gas has been determined with an error no greater than one percent as certified by the supplier.
1.4.3
Propane gas supply.
For an unvented gas heater utilizing propane, maintain the gas supply to the heater with a normal inlet test pressure immediately ahead of all controls at 11 to 13 inches of water column. The regulator outlet pressure at normal supply test pressure shall be that recommended by the manufacturer. The propane supplied should have a higher heating value of within±5 percent of 2,500 Btu's per standard cubic foot. Determine the higher heating value in Btu's per standard foot, for the propane to be used in the test, with an error no greater than one percent. Alternatively, the test can be conducted using “bottled” propane of a
higher heating value within ±5 percent of 2,500 Btu's per standard cubic foot as long as the actual higher heating value of the bottled propane has been determined with an error no greater than one percent as certified by the supplier.
1.4.4
Oil supply.
For an unvented oil heater utilizing kerosene, determine the higher heating value in Btu's per gallon with an error no greater than one percent. Alternatively, the test can be conducted using a tested fuel of a higher heating value within ±5 percent of 137,400 Btu's per gallon as long as the actual higher heating value of the tested fuel has been determined with an error no greater than one percent as certified by the supplier.
1.5
Energy flow instrumentation.
Install one or more energy flow instruments which measure, as appropriate and with an error no greater than one percent, the quantity of electrical energy, natural gas, propane gas, or oil supplied to the heater.

# 2. Testing and measurements.
2.1
Electric power measurement.
Establish the test conditions set forth in section 1 of this appendix. Allow an electric heater to warm up for at least five minutes before recording the maximum electric power measurement from the wattmeter. Record the maximum electric power (P
E
) expressed in kilowatts.
Allow the auxiliary electrical system of a forced air unvented gas, propane, or oil heater to operate for at least five minutes before recording the maximum auxiliary electric power measurement from the wattmeter. Record the maximum auxiliary electric power (P
A
) expressed in kilowatts.
2.2
Natural gas, propane, and oil measurement.
Establish the test conditions as set forth in section 1 of this appendix. A natural gas, propane, or oil heater shall be operated for one hour. Using either the nameplate rating or the energy flow instrumentation set forth in section 1.5 of this appendix and the fuel supply rating set forth in sections 1.4.2, 1.4.3, or 1.4.4 of this appendix, as appropriate, determine the maximum fuel input (P
F
) of the heater under test in Btu's per hour. The energy flow instrumentation shall measure the maximum fuel input with an error no greater than one percent.
2.3
Pilot light measurement.
Except as provided in section 2.3.1 of this appendix, measure the energy input rate to the pilot light (Q
p
), with an error no greater than 3 percent, for unvented heaters so equipped.
2.3.1 The measurement of Q
p
is not required for unvented heaters where the pilot light is designed to be turned off by the user when the heater is not in use (
i.e.,
for units where turning the control to the OFF position will shut off the gas supply to the burner(s) and the pilot light). This provision applies only if an instruction to turn off the unit is provided on the heater near the gas control value (
e.g.,
by label) by the manufacturer.
2.4
Electrical standby mode power measurement.
Except as provided in section 2.4.1 of this appendix, for all electric heaters and unvented heaters with electrical auxiliaries, measure the standby power (P
W,SB
) in accordance with the procedures in IEC 62301 Second Edition (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), with all electrical auxiliaries not activated. Voltage shall be as specified in section 1.4.1
Electrical supply
of this appendix. The recorded standby power (P
W,SB
) shall be rounded to the second decimal place, and for loads greater than or equal to 10W, at least three significant figures shall be reported.
2.4.1 The measurement of P
W,SB
is not required for heaters designed to be turned off by the user when the heater is not in use (
i.e.,
for units where turning the control to the OFF position will shut off the electrical supply to the heater). This provision applies only if an instruction to turn off the unit is provided on the heater (
e.g.,
by label) by the manufacturer.

# 3. Calculations.
3.1
Annual energy consumption for primary electric heaters.
For primary electric heaters, calculate the annual energy consumption (E
E
) expressed in kilowatt-hours per year and defined as:
E
E
= 2080(0.77)DHR
where:
2080 = national average annual heating load hours
0.77 = adjustment factor
DHR = design heating requirement and is equal to P
E
/1.2 in kilowatts.
P
E
= as defined in 2.1 of this appendix
1.2 = typical oversizing factor for primary electric heaters
3.2
Annual energy consumption for primary electric heaters by geographic region of the United States.
For primary electric heaters, calculate the annual energy consumption by geographic region of the United States (E
R
) expressed in kilowatt-hours per year and defined as:
E
R
= HLH(0.77) (DHR)
where:
HLH = heating load hours for a specific region determined from Figure 1 of this appendix in hours
0.77 = as defined in 3.1 of this appendix
DHR = as defined in 3.1 of this appendix
3.3
Rated output for electric heaters.
Calculate the rated output (Q
out
) for electric heaters, expressed in Btu's per hour, and defined as:
Q
out
= P
E
(3,412 Btu/kWh)
where:
P
E
= as defined in 2.1 of this appendix
3.4
Rated output for unvented heaters using either natural gas, propane, or oil.
For unvented heaters using either natural gas, propane, or oil equipped without auxiliary electrical systems, the rated output (Q
out
), expressed in Btu's per hour, is equal to P
F
, as determined in section 2.2 of this appendix.
For unvented heaters using either natural gas, propane, or oil equipped with auxiliary electrical systems, calculate the rated output (Q
out
), expressed in Btu's per hour, and defined as:
Q
out
= P
F
+ P
A
(3,412 Btu/kWh)
where:
P
F
= as defined in 2.2 of this appendix in Btu/hr
P
A
= as defined in 2.1 of this appendix in Btu/hr
EC04OC91.002
(Energy Policy and Conservation Act, Pub. L. 94-163, as amended by Pub. L. 94-385; Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974, Pub. L. 93-275, as amended by Pub. L. 94-385; Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 95-91; E.O. 11790, 39 FR 23185)
[43 FR 20132, May 10, 1978. Redesignated and amended at 44 FR 37938, June 29, 1979; 49 FR 12157, Mar. 28, 1984; 77 FR 74571, Dec. 17, 2012]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. H

# Appendix H to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Power Consumption of Television Sets

# Note:
On or after April 14, 2023 and prior to September 11, 2023, any representations made with respect to the energy use or energy efficiency of a television must be based upon results generated under this appendix as it appeared in 10 CFR part 430 edition revised as of January 1, 2023, or this appendix. Beginning September 11, 2023 any representations made with respect to the energy use or efficiency of a television must be based upon results generated under this appendix. Given that beginning September 11, 2023, representations with respect to the energy use or efficiency of televisions must be made in accordance with tests conducted pursuant to this appendix, manufacturers may wish to begin using this test procedure as soon as possible.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3, ANSI/CTA-2037-D in its entirety. However, only enumerated provisions of ANSI/CTA-2037-D are applicable to this appendix, as follows:

# 0.1 ANSI/CTA-2037-D
(a) Section 5 as referenced in section 2 of this appendix;
(b) Sections 6 and 8 through 11 as referenced in section 3 of this appendix;
(c) Section 7 as referenced in sections 3 and 4 of this appendix; and
(d) Annex A as referenced in section 4 of this appendix.

# 0.2 [Reserved]

# 1. Scope
This appendix covers the test requirements used to measure the energy and power consumption of television sets that have a diagonal screen size of at least fifteen inches; and are powered by mains power (including TVs with auxiliary batteries but not TVs with main batteries).

# 2. Definitions and Symbols
2.1.
Definitions.
The following terms are defined according to section 5.1 of ANSI/CTA-2037-D.
(a) Annual energy consumption
(b) Automatic brightness control
(c) Brightest selectable picture setting
(d) Default preset picture setting
(e) Dynamic Luminance
(f) Energy-Efficient-Ethernet
(g) Filmmaker Mode
(h) Forced menu
(i) Gloss Unit (GU)
(j) HDR10
(k) High Dynamic Range
(l) Home configuration
(m) Hybrid Log Gamma (HLG)
(n) Illuminance
(o) International System of Units
(p) Luminance
(q) Main battery
(r) Motion-Based Dynamic Dimming
(s) Neutral density filter
(t) Off Mode
(u) On Mode
(v) Perceptual Quantization Video
(w) Preset picture setting
(x) Quick start
(y) Retail Configuration
(z) Snoot
(aa) Software
(ab) Wake-By-Remote-Control-App
(ac) Wake-By-Smart-Speaker
(ad) Wake-On-Cast
2.2.
Symbol usage.
The symbols and abbreviations in section 5.2 of ANSI/CTA-2037-D apply to this test procedure.

# 3.
Test Conduct
Determine the dynamic luminance and on mode and standby mode power consumption of TVs by following the procedure specified in sections 6 through 11 of ANSI/CTA-2037-D.

# 4.
Calculation of Measured Values
Calculate the on mode power consumption, dynamic luminance, standby mode power consumption, and annual energy consumption as specified in Annex A of ANSI/CTA-2037-D. The following additional requirements are also applicable.
4.1. Round on mode power value as specified in Annex A of ANSI/CTA-2037-D.
4.2. Round dynamic luminance to the nearest tenth.
4.3. Round standby mode power as specified in section 7.1.2 of ANSI/CTA-2037-D.
4.4. Round annual energy consumption as specified in Annex A of ANSI/CTA-2037-D.
[88 FR 16109, Mar. 15, 2023]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Microwave Ovens

# Note:
After September 26, 2022, representations made with respect to the energy use of microwave ovens must fairly disclose the results of testing pursuant to this appendix.
On or after April 29, 2022 and prior to September 26, 2022 representations, including compliance certifications, made with respect to the energy use of microwave ovens must fairly disclose the results of testing pursuant to either this appendix or appendix I as it appeared at 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, in the 10 CFR parts 200 to 499 edition revised as of January 1, 2020. Representations made with
respect to the energy use of microwave ovens within that range of time must fairly disclose the results of testing under the selected version. Given that after September 26, 2022 representations with respect to the energy use of microwave ovens must be made in accordance with tests conducted pursuant to this appendix, manufacturers may wish to begin using this test procedure as soon as possible.

# 1. Definitions
The following definitions apply to the test procedures in this appendix, including the test procedures incorporated by reference:
1.1
Active mode
means a mode in which the product is connected to a mains power source, has been activated, and is performing the main function of producing heat by means of a gas flame, electric resistance heating, electric inductive heating, or microwave energy.
1.2
Built-in
means the product is enclosed in surrounding cabinetry, walls, or other similar structures on at least three sides, and can be supported by surrounding cabinetry or the floor.
1.3
Combined cooking product
means a household cooking appliance that combines a cooking product with other appliance functionality, which may or may not include another cooking product. Combined cooking products include the following products: Conventional range, microwave/conventional cooking top, microwave/conventional oven, and microwave/conventional range.
1.4
Drop-in
means the product is supported by horizontal surface cabinetry.
1.5
IEC 62301 (First Edition)
means the test standard published by the International Electrotechnical Commission, titled “Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power,” Publication 62301 (First Edition 2005-06) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
1.6
IEC 62301 (Second Edition)
means the test standard published by the International Electrotechnical Commission, titled “Household electrical appliances—Measurement of standby power,” Publication 62301 (Edition 2.0 2011-01) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
1.7
Normal non-operating temperature
means a temperature of all areas of an appliance to be tested that is within 5 °F (2.8 °C) of the temperature that the identical areas of the same basic model of the appliance would attain if it remained in the test room for 24 hours while not operating with all oven doors closed.
1.8
Off mode
means any mode in which a cooking product is connected to a mains power source and is not providing any active mode or standby function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time. An indicator that only shows the user that the product is in the off position is included within the classification of an off mode.
1.9
Standby mode
means any mode in which a cooking product is connected to a mains power source and offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions which may persist for an indefinite time:
(1) Facilitation of the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer;
(2) Provision of continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions. A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that allows for regularly scheduled tasks and that operates on a continuous basis.

# 2. Test Conditions
2.1
Installation.
Install a drop-in or built-in cooking product in a test enclosure in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. If the manufacturer's instructions specify that the cooking product may be used in multiple installation conditions, install the appliance according to the built-in configuration. Completely assemble the product with all handles, knobs, guards, and similar components mounted in place. Position any electric resistance heaters and baffles in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
2.1.1
Microwave ovens, excluding any microwave oven component of a combined cooking product.
Install the microwave oven in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and connect to an electrical supply circuit with voltage as specified in section 2.2.1 of this appendix. Install the microwave oven in accordance with Section 5, Paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), disregarding the provisions regarding batteries and the determination, classification, and testing of relevant modes. If the microwave oven can communicate through a network (
e.g.,
Bluetooth® or internet connection), disable the network function, if it is possible to disable it by means provided in the manufacturer's user manual, for the duration of testing. If the network function cannot be disabled, or means for disabling the function are not provided in the manufacturer's user manual, test the microwave oven with the network function in the factory default setting or in the as-shipped condition as instructed in Section 5, paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition). Configure the unit such that the clock display remains on during testing, regardless of manufacturer's instructions or default setting or supplied setting, unless the clock display powers down automatically with no option for the consumer to override
this function. Install a watt meter in the circuit that meets the requirements of section 2.8.1.2 of this appendix.
2.2
Energy supply.
2.2.1
Electrical supply.
2.2.1.1
Voltage.
For microwave oven testing, maintain the electrical supply to the unit at 240/120 volts ±1 percent. Maintain the electrical supply frequency for all products at 60 hertz ±1 percent.
2.3
Air circulation.
Maintain air circulation in the room sufficient to secure a reasonably uniform temperature distribution, but do not cause a direct draft on the unit under test.
2.4
Ambient room test conditions.
2.4.1
Standby mode and off mode ambient temperature.
For standby mode and off mode testing, maintain room ambient air temperature conditions as specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
2.5
Normal non-operating temperature.
All areas of the appliance to be tested must attain the normal non-operating temperature, as defined in section 1.7 of this appendix, before any testing begins. Measure the applicable normal non-operating temperature using the equipment specified in sections 2.6.2.1 of this appendix.
2.6
Instrumentation.
Perform all test measurements using the following instruments, as appropriate:
2.6.1
Electrical Measurements.
2.6.1.1
Standby mode and off mode watt meter.
The watt meter used to measure standby mode and off mode power must meet the requirements specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). For microwave oven standby mode and off mode testing, if the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the crest factor, power factor, or maximum current ratio during the test measurement period, measure the crest factor, power factor, and maximum current ratio immediately before and after the test measurement period to determine whether these characteristics meet the requirements specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition).
2.6.2
Temperature measurement equipment.
2.6.2.1
Room temperature indicating system.
For the test of microwave ovens, the room temperature indicating system must have an error no greater than ±1 °F (±0.6 °C) over the range 65° to 90 °F (18 °C to 32 °C).

# 3. Test Methods and Measurements
3.1.
Test methods.
3.1.1
Microwave oven.
3.1.1.1
Microwave oven test standby mode and off mode power except for any microwave oven component of a combined cooking product.
Establish the testing conditions set forth in section 2, Test Conditions, of this appendix. For microwave ovens that drop from a higher power state to a lower power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), allow sufficient time for the microwave oven to reach the lower power state before proceeding with the test measurement. Follow the test procedure as specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition). For units in which power varies as a function of displayed time in standby mode, set the clock time to 3:23 and use the average power approach described in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2(a) of IEC 62301 (First Edition), but with a single test period of 10 minutes +0/−2 sec after an additional stabilization period until the clock time reaches 3:33. If a microwave oven is capable of operation in either standby mode or off mode, as defined in sections 1.9 and 1.8 of this appendix, respectively, or both, test the microwave oven in each mode in which it can operate.
3.2
Test measurements.
3.2.1
Microwave oven standby mode and off mode power except for any microwave oven component of a combined cooking product.
Make measurements as specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). If the microwave oven is capable of operating in standby mode, as defined in section 1.9 of this appendix, measure the average standby mode power of the microwave oven, PSB, in watts as specified in section 3.1.1.1 of this appendix. If the microwave oven is capable of operating in off mode, as defined in section 1.8 of this appendix, measure the average off mode power of the microwave oven, POM, as specified in section 3.1.1.1.
3.3
Recorded values.
3.3.1 For microwave ovens except for any microwave oven component of a combined cooking product, record the average standby mode power, PSB, for the microwave oven standby mode, as determined in section 3.2.1 of this appendix for a microwave oven capable of operating in standby mode. Record the average off mode power, POM, for the microwave oven off mode power test, as determined in section 3.2.1 of this appendix for a microwave oven capable of operating in off mode.
[85 FR 50766, Aug. 18, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 18271, Mar. 30, 2022; 87 FR 51538, Aug. 22, 2022]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. I1

# Appendix I1 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Conventional Cooking Products

# Note:
Any representation related to energy consumption of conventional cooking tops, including the conventional cooking top component of combined cooking products,
made after February 20, 2023 must be based upon results generated under this test procedure. Upon the compliance date(s) of any energy conservation standard(s) for conventional cooking tops, including the conventional cooking top component of combined cooking products, use of the applicable provisions of this test procedure to demonstrate compliance with the energy conservation standard is required.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3, the entire test standard for IEC 60350-2; IEC 62301 (First Edition); and IEC 62301 (Second Edition). However, only enumerated provisions of those standards are applicable to this appendix, as follows. If there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the referenced test standards.

# 0.1 IEC 60350-2
(a) Section 5.1 as referenced in section 2.4.1 of this appendix;
(b) Section 5.3 as referenced in sections 2.7.1.1, 2.7.3.1, 2.7.3.3, 2.7.3.4, 2.7.4, and 2.7.5 of this appendix;
(c) Section 5.5 as referenced in section 2.5.1 of this appendix;
(d) Section 5.6.1 as referenced in section 2.6.1 of this appendix;
(e) Section 5.6.1.5 as referenced in section 3.1.1.2 of this appendix;
(f) Section 6.3 as referenced in section 3.1.1.1.1 of this appendix;
(g) Section 6.3.1 as referenced in section 3.1.1.1.1 of this appendix;
(h) Section 6.3.2 as referenced in section 3.1.1.1.1 of this appendix;
(i) Section 7.5.1 as referenced in section 2.6.2 of this appendix;
(j) Section 7.5.2 as referenced in section 3.1.4.4 of this appendix;
(k) Section 7.5.2.1 as referenced in sections 1 and 3.1.4.2 of this appendix;
(l) Section 7.5.2.2 as referenced in section 3.1.4.4 of this appendix;
(m) Section 7.5.4.1 as referenced in sections 1 and 3.1.4.5 of this appendix;
(n) Annex A as referenced in section 3.1.1.2 of this appendix;
(o) Annex B as referenced in sections 2.6.1 and 2.8.3 of this appendix; and
(p) Annex C as referenced in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix.

# 0.2 IEC 62301 (First Edition)
(a) Paragraph 5.3 as referenced in section 3.2 of this appendix; and
(b) Paragraph 5.3.2 as referenced in section 3.2 of this appendix.

# 0.3 IEC 62301 (Second Edition)
(a) Paragraph 4.2 as referenced in section 2.4.2 of this appendix;
(b) Paragraph 4.3.2 as referenced in section 2.2.1.1.2 of this appendix;
(c) Paragraph 4.4 as referenced in section 2.7.1.2 of this appendix;
(d) Paragraph 5.1 as referenced in section 3.2 of this appendix; and
(e) Paragraph 5.3.2 as referenced in section 3.2 of this appendix.

# 1. Definitions
The following definitions apply to the test procedures in this appendix, including the test procedures incorporated by reference:
Active mode
means a mode in which the product is connected to a mains power source, has been activated, and is performing the main function of producing heat by means of a gas flame, electric resistance heating, or electric inductive heating.
Built-in
means the product is enclosed in surrounding cabinetry, walls, or other similar structures on at least three sides, and can be supported by surrounding cabinetry or the floor.
Combined cooking product
means a household cooking appliance that combines a cooking product with other appliance functionality, which may or may not include another cooking product. Combined cooking products include the following products: conventional range, microwave/conventional cooking top, microwave/conventional oven, and microwave/conventional range.
Combined low-power mode
means the aggregate of available modes other than active mode, but including the delay start mode portion of active mode.
Cooking area
means an area on a conventional cooking top surface heated by an inducted magnetic field where cookware is placed for heating, where more than one cookware item can be used simultaneously and controlled separately from other cookware placed on the cooking area, and that may or may not include limitative markings.
Cooking top control
means a part of the conventional cooking top used to adjust the power and the temperature of the cooking zone or cooking area for one cookware item.
Cooking zone
means a part of a conventional cooking top surface that is either a single electric resistance heating element, multiple concentric sizes of electric resistance heating elements, an inductive heating element, or a gas surface unit that is defined by limitative markings on the surface of the cooking top and can be controlled independently of any other cooking area or cooking zone.
Cycle finished mode
means a standby mode in which a conventional cooking top provides continuous status display following operation in active mode.
Drop-in
means the product is supported by horizontal surface cabinetry.
Freestanding
means the product is supported by the floor and is not specified in the manufacturer's instructions as able to be installed such that it is enclosed by surrounding cabinetry, walls, or other similar structures.
Inactive mode
means a standby mode that facilitates the activation of active mode by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer, or that provides continuous status display.
Infinite power settings
means a cooking zone control without discrete power settings, which allows for selection of any power setting up to the maximum power setting.
Maximum-below-threshold power setting
means the power setting on a conventional cooking top that is the highest power setting that results in smoothened water temperature data that do not meet the evaluation criteria specified in Section 7.5.4.1 of IEC 60350-2.
Maximum power setting
means the maximum possible power setting if only one cookware item is used on the cooking zone or cooking area of a conventional cooking top, including any optional power boosting features. For conventional electric cooking tops with multi-ring cooking zones or cooking areas, the maximum power setting is the maximum power corresponding to the concentric heating element with the largest diameter, which may correspond to a power setting which may include one or more of the smaller concentric heating elements. For conventional gas cooking tops with multi-ring cooking zones, the maximum power setting is the maximum heat input rate when the maximum number of rings of the cooking zone are ignited.
Minimum-above-threshold power setting
means the power setting on a conventional cooking top that is the lowest power setting that results in smoothened water temperature data that meet the evaluation criteria specified in Section 7.5.4.1 of IEC 60350-2. This power setting is also referred to as the simmering setting.
Multi-ring cooking zone
means a cooking zone on a conventional cooking top with multiple concentric sizes of electric resistance heating elements or gas burner rings.
Off mode
means any mode in which a product is connected to a mains power source and is not providing any active mode or standby function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time. An indicator that only shows the user that the product is in the off position is included within the classification of an off mode.
Power setting
means a setting on a cooking zone control that offers a gas flame, electric resistance heating, or electric inductive heating.
Simmering period
means, for each cooking zone, the 20-minute period during the simmering test starting at time t
90.
Smoothened water temperature
means the 40-second moving-average temperature as calculated in Section 7.5.4.1 of IEC 60350-2, rounded to the nearest 0.1 degree Celsius.
Specialty cooking zone
means a warming plate, grill, griddle, or any cooking zone that is designed for use only with non-circular cookware, such as a bridge zone. Specialty cooking zones are not tested under this appendix.
Stable temperature
means a temperature that does not vary by more than 1 °C over a 5-minute period.
Standard cubic foot of gas
means the quantity of gas that occupies 1 cubic foot when saturated with water vapor at a temperature of 60 °F and a pressure of 14.73 pounds per square inch (30 inches of mercury or 101.6 kPa).
Standby mode
means any mode in which a product is connected to a mains power source and offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions which may persist for an indefinite time:
(1) Facilitation of the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer;
(2) Provision of continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions. A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that allows for regularly scheduled tasks and that operates on a continuous basis.
Target turndown temperature (Tc
target
)
means the temperature as calculated according to Section 7.5.2.1 of IEC 60350-2 and section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix, for each cooking zone.
Thermocouple
means a device consisting of two dissimilar metals which are joined together and, with their associated wires, are used to measure temperature by means of electromotive force.
Time t
90
means the first instant during the simmering test for each cooking zone at which the smoothened water temperature is greater than or equal to 90 °C.
Turndown temperature (T
c
)
means, for each cooking zone, the measured water temperature at the time at which the tester begins adjusting the cooking top controls to change the power setting.

# 2. Test Conditions and Instrumentation
2.1
Installation.
Install the conventional cooking top or combined cooking product in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. If the manufacturer's instructions specify that the product may be used in multiple installation conditions, install the product according to the built-in configuration. Completely assemble the product with
all handles, knobs, guards, and similar components mounted in place. Position any electric resistance heaters, gas burners, and baffles in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. If the product can communicate through a network (
e.g.,
Bluetooth® or internet connection), disable the network function, if it is possible to disable it by means provided in the manufacturer's user manual, for the duration of testing. If the network function cannot be disabled, or if means for disabling the function are not provided in the manufacturer's user manual, the product shall be tested in the factory default setting or in the as-shipped condition.
2.1.1
Freestanding combined cooking product.
Install a freestanding combined cooking product with the back directly against, or as near as possible to, a vertical wall which extends at least 1 foot above the product and 1 foot beyond both sides of the product, and with no side walls.
2.1.2
Drop-in or built-in combined cooking product.
Install a drop-in or built-in combined cooking product in a test enclosure in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
2.1.3
Conventional cooking top.
Install a conventional cooking top with the back directly against, or as near as possible to, a vertical wall which extends at least 1 foot above the product and 1 foot beyond both sides of the product.
2.2
Energy supply.
2.2.1
Electrical supply.
2.2.1.1
Supply voltage.
2.2.1.1.1
Active mode supply voltage.
During active mode testing, maintain the electrical supply to the product at either 240 volts ±1 percent or 120 volts ±1 percent, according to the manufacturer's instructions, except for products which do not allow for a mains electrical supply. The actual voltage shall be maintained and recorded throughout the test. Instantaneous voltage fluctuations caused by the turning on or off of electrical components shall not be considered.
2.2.1.1.2
Standby mode and off mode supply voltage.
During standby mode and off mode testing, maintain the electrical supply to the product at either 240 volts ±1 percent, or 120 volts ±1 percent, according to the manufacturer's instructions. Maintain the electrical supply voltage waveform specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.3.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition), disregarding the provisions regarding batteries and the determination, classification, and testing of relevant modes. If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the total harmonic content during the test measurement period, total harmonic content may be measured and recorded immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.2.1.2
Supply frequency.
Maintain the electrical supply frequency for all tests at 60 hertz ±1 percent.
2.2.2
Gas supply.
2.2.2.1
Natural gas.
Maintain the natural gas pressure immediately ahead of all controls of the unit under test at 7 to 10 inches of water column, except as specified in section 3.1.3 of this appendix. The natural gas supplied should have a higher heating value (dry-basis) of approximately 1,025 Btu per standard cubic foot. Obtain the higher heating value on a dry basis of gas, H
n
, in Btu per standard cubic foot, for the natural gas to be used in the test either from measurements made by the manufacturer conducting the test using equipment that meets the requirements described in section 2.7.2.2 of this appendix or by the use of bottled natural gas whose gross heating value is certified to be at least as accurate a value that meets the requirements in section 2.7.2.2 of this appendix.
2.2.2.2
Propane.
Maintain the propane pressure immediately ahead of all controls of the unit under test at 11 to 13 inches of water column, except as specified in section 3.1.3 of this appendix. The propane supplied should have a higher heating value (dry-basis) of approximately 2,500 Btu per standard cubic foot. Obtain the higher heating value on a dry basis of gas, H
p
, in Btu per standard cubic foot, for the propane to be used in the test either from measurements made by the manufacturer conducting the test using equipment that meets the requirements described in section 2.7.2.2 of this appendix, or by the use of bottled propane whose gross heating value is certified to be at least as accurate a value that meets the requirements described in section 2.7.2.2 of this appendix.
2.3
Air circulation.
Maintain air circulation in the room sufficient to secure a reasonably uniform temperature distribution, but do not cause a direct draft on the unit under test.
2.4
Ambient room test conditions.
2.4.1
Active mode ambient conditions.
During active mode testing, maintain the ambient room air pressure specified in Section 5.1 of IEC 60350-2, and maintain the ambient room air temperature at 25 ± 5 °C with a target temperature of 25 °C.
2.4.2
Standby mode and off mode ambient conditions.
During standby mode and off mode testing, maintain the ambient room air temperature conditions specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition).
2.5
Product temperature.
2.5.1
Product temperature stability.
Prior to any testing, the product must achieve a stable temperature meeting the ambient room air temperature specified in section 2.4 of this appendix. For all conventional cooking tops, forced cooling may be used to assist in reducing the temperature of the product between tests, as specified in Section 5.5 of IEC
60350-2. Forced cooling must not be used during the period of time used to assess temperature stability.
2.5.2
Product temperature measurement.
Measure the product temperature in degrees Celsius using the equipment specified in section 2.7.3.3 of this appendix at the following locations.
2.5.2.1 Measure the product temperature at the center of the cooking zone under test for any gas burner adjustment in section 3.1.3 of this appendix and per-cooking zone energy consumption test in section 3.1.4 of this appendix, except that the product temperature measurement is not required for any potential simmering setting pre-selection test in section 3.1.4.3 of this appendix. For a conventional gas cooking top, measure the product temperature inside the burner body of the cooking zone under test, after temporarily removing any burner cap on that cooking zone.
2.5.2.2 Measure the temperature at the center of each cooking zone for the standby mode and off mode power test in section 3.2 of this appendix. For a conventional gas cooking top, measure the temperature inside the burner body of each cooking zone, after temporarily removing any burner cap on that cooking zone. Calculate the product temperature as the average of the temperatures at the center of each cooking zone.
2.6
Test loads.
2.6.1
Test vessels.
The test vessel for active mode testing of each cooking zone must meet the specifications in Section 5.6.1 and Annex B of IEC 60350-2.
2.6.2
Water load.
The water used to fill the test vessels for active mode testing must meet the specifications in Section 7.5.1 of IEC 60350-2. The water temperature at the start of each test, except for the gas burner adjustment in section 3.1.3 of this appendix and the potential simmering setting pre-selection test in section 3.1.4.3 of this appendix, must have an initial temperature equal to 25 ± 0.5 °C.
2.7
Instrumentation.
Perform all test measurements using the following instruments, as appropriate:
2.7.1
Electrical measurements.
2.7.1.1
Active mode watt-hour meter.
The watt-hour meter for measuring the active mode electrical energy consumption must have a resolution as specified in Table 1 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2. Measurements shall be made as specified in Table 2 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2.
2.7.1.2
Standby mode and off mode watt meter.
The watt meter used to measure standby mode and off mode power must meet the specifications in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition). If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the crest factor, power factor, or maximum current ratio during the test measurement period, measure the crest factor, power factor, and maximum current ratio immediately before and after the test measurement period to determine whether these characteristics meet the specifications in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition).
2.7.2
Gas measurements.
2.7.2.1
Gas meter.
The gas meter used for measuring gas consumption must have a resolution of 0.01 cubic foot or less and a maximum error no greater than 1 percent of the measured valued for any demand greater than 2.2 cubic feet per hour.
2.7.2.2
Standard continuous flow calorimeter.
The maximum error of the basic calorimeter must be no greater than 0.2 percent of the actual heating value of the gas used in the test. The indicator readout must have a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value within the operating range and a resolution of 0.2 percent of the full-scale reading of the indicator instrument.
2.7.2.3
Gas line temperature.
The incoming gas temperature must be measured at the gas meter. The instrument for measuring the gas line temperature shall have a maximum error no greater than ±2 °F over the operating range.
2.7.2.4
Gas line pressure.
The incoming gas pressure must be measured at the gas meter. The instrument for measuring the gas line pressure must have a maximum error no greater than 0.1 inches of water column.
2.7.3
Temperature measurements.
2.7.3.1
Active mode ambient room temperature.
The room temperature indicating system must meet the specifications in Table 1 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2. Measurements shall be made as specified in Table 2 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2.
2.7.3.2
Standby mode and off mode ambient room temperature.
The room temperature indicating system must have an error no greater than ±1 °F (±0.6 °C) over the range 65° to 90 °F (18 °C to 32 °C).
2.7.3.3
Product temperature.
The temperature indicating system must have an error no greater than ±1 °F (±0.6 °C) over the range 65° to 90 °F (18 °C to 32 °C). Measurements shall be made as specified in Table 2 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2.
2.7.3.4
Water temperature.
Measure the test vessel water temperature with a thermocouple that meets the specifications in Table 1 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2. Measurements shall be made as specified in Table 2 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2.
2.7.4
Room air pressure.
The room air pressure indicating system must meet the specifications in Table 1 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2.
2.7.5
Water mass.
The scale used to measure the mass of the water load must meet the specifications in Table 1 of Section 5.3 of IEC 60350-2.
2.8
Power settings.
2.8.1 On a multi-ring cooking zone on a conventional gas cooking top, all power settings are considered, whether they ignite all rings of orifices or not.
2.8.2 On a multi-ring cooking zone on a conventional electric cooking top, only power settings corresponding to the concentric heating element with the largest diameter are considered, which may correspond to operation with one or more of the smaller concentric heating elements energized.
2.8.3 On a cooking zone with infinite power settings where the available range of rotation from maximum to minimum is more than 150 rotational degrees, evaluate power settings that are spaced by 10 rotational degrees. On a cooking zone with infinite power settings where the available range of rotation from maximum to minimum is less than or equal to 150 rotational degrees, evaluate power settings that are spaced by 5 rotational degrees, starting with the first position that meets the definition of a power setting, irrespective of how the knob is labeled. Polar coordinate paper, as provided in Annex B of IEC 60350-2 may be used to mark power settings.

# 3. Test Methods and Measurements
3.1
Active mode.
Perform the following test methods for conventional cooking tops and the conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
3.1.1
Test vessel and water load selection.
3.1.1.1
Conventional electric cooking tops.
3.1.1.1.1 For cooking zones, measure the size of each cooking zone as specified in Section 6.3.2 of IEC 60350-2, not including any specialty cooking zones as defined in section 1 of this appendix. For circular cooking zones on smooth cooking tops, the cooking zone size is determined using the outer diameter of the printed marking, as specified in Section 6.3 of IEC 60350-2. For open coil cooking zones, the cooking zone size is determined using the widest diameter of the coil, see Figure 3.1.1.1. For non-circular cooking zones, the cooking zone size is determined by the measurement of the shorter side or minor axis. For cooking areas, determine the number of cooking zones as specified in Section 6.3.1 of IEC 60350-2.
ER22AU22.001
3.1.1.1.2 Determine the test vessel diameter in millimeters (mm) and water load mass in grams (g) for each measured cooking zone. For cooking zones, test vessel selection is based on cooking zone size as specified in Table 3 in Section 5.6.1.5 of IEC 60350-2. For cooking areas, test vessel selection is based on the number of cooking zones as specified in Annex A of IEC 60350-2. If a selected test vessel (including its lid) cannot be centered on the cooking zone due to interference with a structural component of the cooking top, the test vessel with the largest diameter that can be centered on the cooking zone shall be used. The allowable tolerance on the water load weight is ±0.5 g.
3.1.1.2
Conventional gas cooking tops.
3.1.1.2.1 Record the nominal heat input rate for each cooking zone, not including any specialty cooking zones as defined in section 1 of this appendix.
3.1.1.2.2 Determine the test vessel diameter in mm and water load mass in g for each measured cooking zone according to Table 3.1 of this appendix. If a selected test vessel cannot be centered on the cooking zone due to interference with a structural component of the cooking top, the test vessel with the largest diameter that can be centered on the cooking zone shall be used. The allowable tolerance on the water load weight is ±0.5 g.
Table 3.1—Test Vessel Selection for Conventional Gas Cooking Tops
Nominal gas burner input rate
(Btu/h)
Minimum
(
)
Maximum
(≤)
Test vessel diameter
(mm)
Water load mass
(g)
5,600
210
2,050
5,600
8,050
240
2,700
8,050
14,300
270
3,420
14,300
300
4,240
3.1.2
Unit Preparation.
Before the first measurement is taken, all cooking zones must be operated simultaneously for at least 10 minutes at maximum power. This step shall be conducted once per product.
3.1.3
Gas burner adjustment.
Prior to active mode testing of each tested burner of a conventional gas cooking top, the burner heat input rate must be adjusted, if necessary, to within 2 percent of the nominal heat input rate of the burner as specified by the manufacturer. Prior to ignition and any adjustment of the burner heat input rate, the conventional cooking top must achieve the product temperature specified in section 2.5 of this appendix. Ignite and operate the gas burner under test with the test vessel and water mass specified in section 3.1.1 of this appendix. Measure the heat input rate of the gas burner under test starting 5 minutes after ignition. If the measured input rate of the gas burner under test is within 2 percent of the nominal heat input rate of the burner as specified by the manufacturer, no adjustment of the heat input rate shall be made.
3.1.3.1
Conventional gas cooking tops with an adjustable internal pressure regulator.
If the measured heat input rate of the burner under test is not within 2 percent of the nominal heat input rate of the burner as specified by the manufacturer, adjust the product's internal pressure regulator such that the heat input rate of the burner under test is within 2 percent of the nominal heat input rate of the burner as specified by the manufacturer. Adjust the burner with sufficient air flow to prevent a yellow flame or a flame with yellow tips. Complete section 3.1.4 of this appendix while maintaining the same gas pressure regulator adjustment.
3.1.3.2
Conventional gas cooking tops with a non-adjustable internal pressure regulator or without an internal pressure regulator.
If the measured heat input rate of the burner under test is not within 2 percent of the nominal heat input rate of the burner as specified by the manufacturer, remove the product's internal pressure regulator, or block it in the open position, and initially maintain the gas pressure ahead of all controls of the unit under test approximately equal to the manufacturer's recommended manifold pressure. Adjust the gas supply pressure such that the heat input rate of the burner under test is within 2 percent of the nominal heat input rate of the burner as specified by the manufacturer. Adjust the burner with sufficient air flow to prevent a yellow flame or a flame with yellow tips. Complete section 3.1.4 of this appendix while maintaining the same gas pressure regulator adjustment.
3.1.4
Per-cooking zone energy consumption test.
Establish the test conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix. Turn off the gas flow to the conventional oven(s), if so equipped. The product temperature must meet the specifications in section 2.5 of this appendix.
3.1.4.1
Test vessel placement.
Position the test vessel with water load for the cooking zone under test, selected and prepared as specified in section 3.1.1 of this appendix, in the center of the cooking zone, and as specified in Annex C to IEC 60350-2.
3.1.4.2
Overshoot test.
Use the test methods set forth in Section 7.5.2.1 of IEC 60350-2 to determine the target turndown temperature for each cooking zone, Tc
target
, in degrees Celsius, as follows.
Tc
target
= 93 °C − (T
max
− T
70
)
Where:
T
max
is highest recorded temperature value, in degrees Celsius; and
T
70
is the average recorded temperature between the time 10 seconds before the power is turned off and the time 10 seconds after the power is turned off.
If T
70
is within the tolerance of 70 ± 0.5 °C, the target turndown temperature is the highest of 80 °C and the calculated Tc
target
, rounded to the nearest integer. If T
70
is outside of the tolerance, the overshoot test is considered invalid and must be repeated after allowing the product to return to ambient conditions.
3.1.4.3
Potential simmering setting pre-selection test.
The potential simmering setting for each cooking zone may be determined using the potential simmering setting pre-selecting test. If a potential simmering setting is already known, it may be used instead of completing sections 3.1.4.3.1 through 3.1.4.3.4 of this appendix.
3.1.4.3.1 Use the test vessel with water load for the cooking zone under test, selected, prepared, and positioned as specified in sections 3.1.1 and 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. The temperature of the conventional cooking top is not required to meet the specification for the product temperature in section 2.5 of this appendix for the potential simmering setting pre-selection test. Operate the cooking zone under test with the lowest available power setting. Measure the energy consumption for 10 minutes ±2 seconds.
3.1.4.3.2 Calculate the power density of the power setting, j, on a conventional electric cooking top, Qe
j
, in watts per square centimeter, as:
ER22AU22.002
Where:
a = the surface area of the test vessel bottom, in square centimeters; and
E
j
= the electrical energy consumption during the 10-minute test, in Wh.
3.1.4.3.3 Calculate the power density of the power setting, j, on a conventional gas cooking top, Qg
j
, in Btu/h per square centimeter, as:
ER22AU22.003
Where:
a = the surface area of the test vessel bottom, in square centimeters;
V
j
= the volume of gas consumed during the 10-minute test, in cubic feet;
CF = the gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure, as calculated in section 4.1.1.2.1 of this appendix;
H = either H
n
or H
p
, the heating value of the gas used in the test as specified in sections 2.2.2.1 and 2.2.2.2 of this appendix, in Btu per standard cubic foot of gas;
Ee
j
= the electrical energy consumption of the conventional gas cooking top during the 10-minute test, in Wh; and
K
e
= 3.412 Btu/Wh, conversion factor of watt-hours to Btu.
3.1.4.3.4 Repeat the measurement for each successively higher power setting until Qe
j
exceeds 0.8 W/cm
2
for conventional electric cooking tops or Qg
j
exceeds 4.0 Btu/h·cm
2
for conventional gas cooking tops.
For conventional cooking tops with rotating knobs for selecting the power setting, the selection knob shall be turned to the maximum power setting in between each test, to avoid hysteresis. The selection knob shall be turned in the direction from higher power to lower power to select the power setting for the test. If the appropriate power setting is passed, the selection knob shall be turned to the maximum power setting again before repeating the power setting selection.
Of the last two power settings tested, the potential simmering setting is the power setting that produces a power density closest to 0.8 W/cm
2
for conventional electric cooking tops or 4.0 Btu/h·cm
2
for conventional gas cooking tops. The closest power density may be higher or lower than the applicable threshold value.
3.1.4.4
Simmering test.
The product temperature must meet the specifications in section 2.5 of this appendix at the start of each simmering test. For each cooking zone, conduct the test method specified in Section 7.5.2 of IEC 60350-2, using the potential simmering setting identified in section 3.1.4.3 of this appendix for the initial simmering setting used in Section 7.5.2.2 of IEC 60350-2.
For conventional cooking tops with rotating knobs for selecting the power setting, the selection knob shall be turned in the direction from higher power to lower power to
select the potential simmering setting for the test, to avoid hysteresis. If the appropriate setting is passed, the test is considered invalid and must be repeated after allowing the product to return to ambient conditions.
3.1.4.5
Evaluation of the simmering test.
Evaluate the test conducted under section 3.1.4.4 of this appendix as set forth in Section 7.5.4.1 of IEC 60350-2 according to Figure 3.1.4.5 of this appendix. If the measured turndown temperature, Tc, is not within -0.5 °C and +1 °C of the target turndown temperature, Tc
target
, the test is considered invalid and must be repeated after allowing the product to return to ambient conditions.
ER22AU22.004
3.2
Standby mode and off mode power.
Establish the standby mode and off mode testing conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix. For products that take some time to enter a stable state from a higher power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition), allow sufficient time for the product to reach the lower power state before proceeding with the test measurement. Follow the test procedure as specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301 (Second Edition) for testing in each possible mode as described in sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 of this appendix. For units in which power varies as a function of displayed time in standby mode, set the clock time to 3:23 at the end of an initial stabilization period, as specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3 of IEC 62301 (First Edition). After an additional 10-minute stabilization period, measure the power use for a single test period of 10 minutes +0/−2 seconds that starts when the clock time first reads 3:33. Use the average power approach described in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2(a) of IEC 62301 (First Edition).
3.2.1 If the product has an inactive mode, as defined in section 1 of this appendix, measure the average inactive mode power, P
IA
, in watts.
3.2.2 If the product has an off mode, as defined in section 1 of this appendix, measure the average off mode power, P
OM
, in watts.
3.3
Recorded values.
3.3.1
Active mode.
3.3.1.1 For a conventional gas cooking top tested with natural gas, record the natural gas higher heating value in Btu per standard cubic foot, H
n
, as determined in section 2.2.2.1 of this appendix for the natural gas supply, for each test. For a conventional gas cooking top tested with propane, record the propane higher heating value in Btu per standard cubic foot, H
p
, as determined in section 2.2.2.2 of this appendix for the propane supply, for each test.
3.3.1.2 Record the test room temperature in degrees Celsius and relative air pressure in hectopascals (hPa) during each test.
3.3.1.3
Per-cooking zone energy consumption test.
3.3.1.3.1 Record the product temperature in degrees Celsius, T
P
, prior to the start of each overshoot test or simmering test, as determined in section 2.5 of this appendix.
3.3.1.3.2
Overshoot test.
For each cooking zone, record the initial temperature of the water in degrees Celsius, T
i;
the average water temperature between the time 10 seconds before the power is turned off and the time 10 seconds after the power is turned off in degrees Celsius, T
70
; the highest recorded water temperature in degrees Celsius, T
max
; and the target turndown temperature in degrees Celsius, Tc
target
.
3.3.1.3.3
Simmering test.
For each cooking zone, record the temperature of the water throughout the test, in degrees Celsius, and the values in sections 3.3.1.3.3.1 through 3.3.1.3.3.7 of this appendix for the Energy Test Cycle, if an Energy Test Cycle is measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, otherwise for both the maximum-below-threshold power setting and the minimum-above-threshold power setting. Because t
90
may not be known until completion of the simmering test, water temperature, any electrical energy consumption, and any gas volumetric consumption measurements may be recorded for several minutes after the end of the simmering period to ensure that the full simmering period is recorded.
3.3.1.3.3.1 The power setting under test.
3.3.1.3.3.2 The initial temperature of the water, in degrees Celsius, T
i
.
3.3.1.3.3.3 The time at which the tester begins adjusting the cooking top control to change the power setting, to the nearest second, t
c
and the turndown temperature, in degrees Celsius, Tc.
3.3.1.3.3.4 The time at which the simmering period starts, to the nearest second, t
90
.
3.3.1.3.3.5 The time at which the simmering period ends, to the nearest second, t
S
and the smoothened water temperature at the end of the simmering period, in degrees Celsius, T
S
.
3.3.1.3.3.6 For a conventional electric cooking top, the electrical energy consumption from the start of the test to t
S
, E, in watt-hours.
3.3.1.3.3.7 For a conventional gas cooking top, the volume of gas consumed from the start of the test to t
S
, V, in cubic feet of gas; and any electrical energy consumption of the cooking top from the start of the test to t
S
, E
e
, in watt-hours.
3.3.2
Standby mode and off mode.
Make measurements as specified in section 3.2 of this appendix. If the product is capable of operating in inactive mode, as defined in section 1 of this appendix, record the average inactive mode power, P
IA
, in watts as specified in section 3.2.1 of this appendix. If the product is capable of operating in off mode, as defined in section 1 of this appendix, record the average off mode power, P
OM
, in watts as specified in section 3.2.2 of this appendix.

# 4. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
4.1. Active mode energy consumption of conventional cooking tops and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
4.1.1 Per-cycle active mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
4.1.1.1 Conventional electric cooking top per-cycle active mode energy consumption.
4.1.1.1.1 Conventional electric cooking top per-cooking zone normalized active mode energy consumption. For each cooking zone, calculate the per-cooking zone normalized active mode energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, E, in watt-hours, using the following equation:
E
=
E
ETC
for cooking zones where an Energy Test Cycle was measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, and
ER22AU22.005
for cooking zones where a minimum-above-threshold cycle and a maximum-below-threshold cycle were measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix.
Where:
E
ETC
= the electrical energy consumption of the Energy Test Cycle from the start of the test to the end of the test for the cooking zone, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
E
MAT
= the electrical energy consumption of the minimum-above-threshold power setting from the start of the test to the end of the test for the cooking zone, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
E
MBT
= the electrical energy consumption of the maximum-below-threshold power setting from the start of the test to the end of the test for the cooking zone, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
T
S,MAT
= the smoothened water temperature at the end of the minimum-above-threshold power setting test for the cooking zone, in degrees Celsius; and
T
S,MBT
= the smoothened water temperature at the end of the maximum-below-threshold power setting test for the cooking zone, in degrees Celsius.
4.1.1.1.2 Calculate the per-cycle active mode total energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, E
CET
, in watt-hours, using the following equation:
ER22AU22.006
Where:
n = the total number of cooking zones tested on the conventional cooking top;
E
z
= the normalized energy consumption representative of the Energy Test Cycle for each cooking zone, as calculated in section 4.1.1.1.1 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
m
z
is the mass of water used for each cooking zone, in grams; and
2853 = the representative water load mass, in grams.
4.1.1.2 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode energy consumption.
4.1.1.2.1 Gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure. Calculate the gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure, which converts between standard cubic feet and measured cubic feet of gas for a given set of test conditions:
ER22AU22.007
Where:
P
gas
= the measured line gas gauge pressure, in inches of water column;
0.0361= the conversion factor from inches of water column to pounds per square inch;
P
atm
= the measured atmospheric pressure, in pounds per square inch;
P
base
= 14.73 pounds per square inch, the standard sea level air pressure;
T
base
= 519.67 degrees Rankine (or 288.7 Kelvin);
T
gas
= the measured line gas temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit (or degrees Celsius); and
T
k
= the adder converting from degrees Fahrenheit to degrees Rankine, 459.7 (or from degrees Celsius to Kelvin, 273.16).
4.1.1.2.2 Conventional gas cooking top per-cooking zone normalized active mode gas energy consumption. For each cooking zone, calculate the per-cooking zone normalized active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
g
, in Btu, using the following equation:
E
g
=
E
gt,ETC
for cooking zones where an Energy Test Cycle was measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, and
ER07FE23.044
for cooking zones where a minimum-above-threshold cycle and a maximum-below-threshold cycle were measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix.
Where:
E
gt,ETC
= the as-tested gas energy consumption of the Energy Test Cycle for the cooking zone, in Btu, calculated as the product of: V, the gas consumption of the Energy Test Cycle, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in cubic feet; CF, the gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure for the test, as calculated in section 4.1.1.2.1 of this appendix; and H, either H
n
or H
p,
the heating value of the gas used in the test as specified in sections 2.2.2.1 and 2.2.2.2 of this appendix, expressed in Btu per standard cubic foot of gas;
E
gt,MAT
= the as-tested gas energy consumption of the minimum-above-threshold power setting for the cooking zone, in Btu, calculated as the product of: V, the gas consumption of the minimum-above-threshold power setting, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in cubic feet; CF, the gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure for the test, as calculated in section 4.1.1.2.1 of this appendix; and H, either H
n
or H
p
, the heating value of the gas used in the test as specified in sections 2.2.2.1 and 2.2.2.2 of this appendix, expressed in Btu per standard cubic foot of gas;
E
gt,MBT
= the as-tested gas energy consumption of the maximum-below-threshold power setting for the cooking zone, in Btu, calculated as the product of: V, the gas consumption of the maximum-below-threshold power setting, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in cubic feet; CF, the gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure for the test, as calculated in section 4.1.1.2.1 of this appendix; and H, either H
n
or H
p
, the heating value of the gas used in the test as specified in sections 2.2.2.1 and 2.2.2.2 of this appendix, expressed in Btu per standard cubic foot of gas;
T
S,MAT
= the smoothened water temperature at the end of the minimum-above-threshold power setting test for the cooking zone, in degrees Celsius; and
T
S,MBT
= the smoothened water temperature at the end of the maximum-below-threshold power setting test for the cooking zone, in degrees Celsius.
4.1.1.2.3 Conventional gas cooking top per-cooking zone active mode normalized electrical energy consumption. For each cooking zone, calculate the per-cooking zone normalized active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
e
, in watt-hours, using the following equation:
E
e
=
E
e,ETC
for cooking zones where an Energy Test Cycle was measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, and
ER22AU22.009
for cooking zones where a minimum-above-threshold cycle and a maximum-below-threshold cycle were measured in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix.
Where:
E
e,ETC
= the electrical energy consumption of the Energy Test Cycle from the start of the test to the end of the test for the cooking zone, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
E
e,MAT
= the electrical energy consumption of the minimum-above-threshold power setting from the start of the test to the end of the test for the cooking zone, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
E
e,MBT
= the electrical energy consumption of the maximum-below-threshold power setting from the start of the test to the end of the test for the cooking zone, as determined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
T
S,MAT
= the smoothened water temperature at the end of the minimum-above-threshold power setting test for the cooking zone, in degrees Celsius; and
T
S,MBT
= the smoothened water temperature at the end of the maximum-below-threshold power setting test for the cooking zone, in degrees Celsius.
4.1.1.2.4 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode gas energy consumption. Calculate the per-cycle active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
CGG
, in Btu, using the following equation:
ER07FE23.045
Where:
n, m
z
, and 2853 are defined in section 4.1.1.1.2 of this appendix; and
E
gz
= the normalized gas energy consumption representative of the Energy Test Cycle for each cooking zone, as calculated in section 4.1.1.2.2 of this appendix, in Btu.
4.1.1.2.5 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode electrical energy consumption. Calculate the per-cycle active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
CGE
, in watt-hours, using the following equation:
ER22AU22.011
Where:
n, m
z
, and 2853 are defined in section 4.1.1.1.2 of this appendix; and
E
ez
= the normalized electrical energy consumption representative of the Energy Test Cycle for each cooking zone, as calculated in section 4.1.1.2.3 of this appendix, in watt-hours.
4.1.1.2.6 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active-mode total energy consumption. Calculate the per-cycle active mode total energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
CGT
, in Btu, using the following equation:
E
CGT
= E
CGG
+ (E
CGE
× K
e
)
Where:
E
CGG
= the per-cycle active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top as determined in section 4.1.1.2.4 of this appendix, in Btu;
E
CGE
= the per-cycle active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top as determined in section 4.1.1.2.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours; and
K
e
= 3.412 Btu/Wh, conversion factor of watt-hours to Btu.
4.1.2 Annual active mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
4.1.2.1 Conventional electric cooking top annual active mode energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode total energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, E
AET
, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:
E
AET
= E
CET
× K × N
C
Where:
E
CET
= the conventional electric cooking top per-cycle active mode total energy consumption, as determined in section 4.1.1.1.2 of this appendix, in watt-hours;
K = 0.001 kWh/Wh conversion factor for watt-hours to kilowatt-hours; and
N
C
= 418 cooking cycles per year, the average number of cooking cycles per year normalized for duration of a cooking event estimated for conventional cooking tops.
4.1.2.2 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode energy consumption.
4.1.2.2.1 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode gas energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
AGG
, in kBtu per year, using the following equation:
E
AGG
= E
CGG
× K × N
C
Where:
K and N
C
are defined in section 4.1.2.1 of this appendix; and
E
CGG
= the conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode gas energy consumption, as determined in section 4.1.1.2.4 of this appendix, in Btu.
4.1.2.2.2 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode electrical energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
AGE
, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:
E
AGE
= E
CGE
× K × N
C
Where:
K and N
C
are defined in section 4.1.2.1 of this appendix; and
E
CGE
= the conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode electrical energy consumption, as determined in section 4.1.1.2.5 of this appendix, in watt-hours.
4.1.2.2.3 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode total energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode total energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E
AGT
, in kBtu per year, using the following equation:
E
AGT
= E
AGG
+ (E
AGE
× K
e
)
Where:
E
AGG
= the conventional gas cooking top annual active mode gas energy consumption as determined in section 4.1.2.2.1 of this appendix, in kBtu per year;
E
AGE
= the conventional gas cooking top annual active mode electrical energy consumption as determined in section 4.1.2.2.2 of this appendix, in kilowatt-hours per year; and
K
e
is defined in section 4.1.1.2.6 of this appendix.
4.2 Annual combined low-power mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
4.2.1 Conventional cooking top annual combined low-power mode energy consumption. Calculate the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption for a conventional cooking top, E
TLP
, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:
E
TLP
= [(P
IA
× F
IA
) + (P
OM
× F
OM
)] × K × S
T
Where:
P
IA
= inactive mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.2.1 of this appendix;
P
OM
= off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.2.2 of this appendix;
F
IA
and F
OM
are the portion of annual hours spent in inactive mode and off mode hours respectively, as defined in Table 4.2.1 of this appendix;
K = 0.001 kWh/Wh conversion factor for watt-hours to kilowatt-hours; and
S
T
= 8,544, total number of inactive mode and off mode hours per year for a conventional cooking top.
Table 4.2.1—Annual Hour Multipliers
Types of low-power mode(s) available
F
IA
F
OM
Both inactive and off mode
0.5
0.5
Inactive mode only
1
0
Off mode only
0
1
4.2.2 Conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product annual combined low-power mode energy consumption. Calculate the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption for the conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, E
TLP
, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:
E
TLP
= [(P
IA
× F
IA
) + (P
OM
× F
OM
)] × K × S
TOT
× H
C
Where:
P
IA
, P
OM
, F
IA
, F
OM
, and K are defined in section 4.2.1 of this appendix;
S
TOT
= the total number of inactive mode and off mode hours per year for a combined cooking product, as defined in Table 4.2.2 of this appendix; and
H
C
= the percentage of hours per year assigned to the conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as defined in Table 4.2.2 of this appendix.
Table 4.2.2—Combined Cooking Product Usage Factors
Type of combined cooking product
S
TOT
H
C
Cooking top and conventional oven (conventional range)
8,392
60
Cooking top and microwave oven
8,481
77
Cooking top, conventional oven, and microwave oven
8,329
51
4.3 Integrated annual energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.
4.3.1 Conventional electric cooking top integrated annual energy consumption. Calculate the integrated annual energy consumption, IAEC, of a conventional electric cooking top, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:
IAEC = E
AET
+ E
TLP
Where:
E
AET
= the conventional electric cooking top annual active mode energy consumption, as determined in section 4.1.2.1 of this appendix; and
E
TLP
= the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top or any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as determined in section 4.2 of this appendix.
4.3.2 Conventional gas cooking top integrated annual energy consumption. Calculate the integrated annual energy consumption, IAEC, of a conventional gas cooking top, in kBtu per year, defined as:
IAEC = E
AGT
+ (E
TLP
× K
e
)
Where:
E
AGT
= the conventional gas cooking top annual active mode total energy consumption, as determined in section 4.1.2.2.3 of this appendix;
E
TLP
= the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top or any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as determined in section 4.2 of this appendix; and
K
e
is defined in section 4.1.1.2.6 of this appendix.
[87 FR 51538, Aug. 22, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 7847, Feb. 7, 2023]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. J

# Appendix J to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Automatic and Semi-Automatic Clothes Washers

# Note 1 to appendix J to subpart B of part 430:
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under appendix J2 to this subpart to determine compliance with the residential clothes washer standards provided at § 430.32(g)(1) and the commercial clothes washer standards provided at § 431.156(b).
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under this appendix to determine compliance with the residential clothes washer standards provided at § 430.32(g)(2) and for any amended commercial clothes washer standards provided at § 431.156 that are published after January 1, 2022.
Any representations related to energy or water consumption of residential or commercial clothes washers must be made in accordance with the appropriate appendix that applies (
i.e.,
this appendix or appendix J2 to this subpart) when determining compliance with the relevant standard. Manufacturers may also use this appendix to certify compliance with the residential clothes washer standards provided at § 430.32(g)(2) or any amended standards for commercial clothes washers prior to the applicable compliance date for those standards.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3, the entire test standard for IEC 62301. However, only enumerated provisions of this standard are applicable to this appendix, as follows. In cases in which there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the referenced test standard.
0.1 IEC 62301:
(a) Section 4.2 as referenced in section 2.4 of this appendix;
(b) Section 4.3.2 as referenced in section 2.1.2 of this appendix;
(c) Section 4.4 as referenced in section 2.5.3 of this appendix;
(d) Section 5.1 as referenced in section 3.5.2 of this appendix;
(e) Section 5.2 as referenced in section 2.10.2 of this appendix; and
(f) Section 5.3.2 as referenced in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.
0.2 [Reserved]

# 1. Definitions
Active mode
means a mode in which the clothes washer is connected to a mains power source, has been activated, and is performing one or more of the main functions of washing, soaking, tumbling, agitating, rinsing, and/or removing water from the clothing, or is involved in functions necessary for these main functions, such as admitting water into the washer or pumping water out of the washer. Active mode also includes delay start and cycle finished modes.
Active-mode energy efficiency ratio
means the quotient of the weighted-average load size divided by the total clothes washer energy consumption per cycle, with such energy consumption expressed as the sum of the machine electrical energy consumption, the hot water energy consumption, and the energy required for removal of the remaining moisture in the wash load.
Active washing mode
means a mode in which the clothes washer is performing any of the operations included in a complete cycle intended for washing a clothing load, including the main functions of washing, soaking, tumbling, agitating, rinsing, and/or removing water from the clothing.
Bone-dry
means a condition of a load of test cloth that has been dried in a dryer at maximum temperature for a minimum of 10 minutes, removed and weighed before cool down, and then dried again for 10 minute periods until the final weight change of the load is 1 percent or less.
Clothes container
means the compartment within the clothes washer that holds the clothes during the operation of the machine.
Cold rinse
means the coldest rinse temperature available on the machine, as indicated to the user on the clothes washer control panel.
Combined low-power mode
means the aggregate of available modes other than active washing mode, including inactive mode, off mode, delay start mode, and cycle finished mode.
Cycle finished mode
means an active mode that provides continuous status display, intermittent tumbling, or air circulation following operation in active washing mode.
Delay start mode
means an active mode in which activation of active washing mode is facilitated by a timer.
Energy efficiency ratio
means the quotient of the weighted-average load size divided by the total clothes washer energy consumption per cycle, with such energy consumption expressed as the sum of:
(a) The machine electrical energy consumption;
(b) The hot water energy consumption;
(c) The energy required for removal of the remaining moisture in the wash load; and
(d) The combined low-power mode energy consumption.
Energy test cycle
means the complete set of wash/rinse temperature selections required for testing, as determined according to section 2.12 of this appendix.
Fixed water fill control system
means a clothes washer water fill control system that automatically terminates the fill when the water reaches a pre-defined level that is not based on the size or weight of the clothes
load placed in the clothes container, without allowing or requiring the user to determine or select the water fill level.
Inactive mode
means a standby mode that facilitates the activation of active mode by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer, or that provides continuous status display.
Load usage factor
means the percentage of the total number of wash loads that a user would wash a particular size (weight) load.
Lot
means a quantity of cloth that has been manufactured with the same batches of cotton and polyester during one continuous process.
Manual water fill control system
means a clothes washer water fill control system that requires the user to determine or select the water fill level.
Non-user-adjustable adaptive water fill control system
means a clothes washer water fill control system that is capable of automatically adjusting the water fill level based on the size or weight of the clothes load placed in the clothes container.
Normal cycle
means the cycle recommended by the manufacturer (considering manufacturer instructions, control panel labeling, and other markings on the clothes washer) for normal, regular, or typical use for washing up to a full load of normally soiled cotton clothing. For machines where multiple cycle settings are recommended by the manufacturer for normal, regular, or typical use for washing up to a full load of normally soiled cotton clothing, then the Normal cycle is the cycle selection that results in the lowest EER or AEER value.
Off mode
means a mode in which the clothes washer is connected to a mains power source and is not providing any active or standby mode function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time.
Standby mode
means any mode in which the clothes washer is connected to a mains power source and offers one or more of the following user oriented or protective functions that may persist for an indefinite time:
(a) Facilitating the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer;
(b) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions.
A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that provides regular scheduled tasks (
e.g.,
switching) and that operates on a continuous basis.
Temperature use factor
means, for a particular wash/rinse temperature setting, the percentage of the total number of wash loads that an average user would wash with that setting.
User-adjustable adaptive water fill control system
means a clothes washer fill control system that allows the user to adjust the amount of water that the machine provides, which is based on the size or weight of the clothes load placed in the clothes container.
Wash time
means the wash portion of active washing mode, which begins when the cycle is initiated and includes the agitation or tumble time, which may be periodic or continuous during the wash portion of active washing mode.
Water efficiency ratio
means the quotient of the weighted-average load size divided by the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for all wash cycles in gallons.

# 2. Testing Conditions and Instrumentation
2.1
Electrical energy supply.
2.1.1
Supply voltage and frequency.
Maintain the electrical supply at the clothes washer terminal block within 2 percent of 120, 120/240, or 120/208Y volts as applicable to the particular terminal block wiring system and within 2 percent of the nameplate frequency as specified by the manufacturer. If the clothes washer has a dual voltage conversion capability, conduct test at the highest voltage specified by the manufacturer.
2.1.2
Supply voltage waveform.
For the combined low-power mode testing, maintain the electrical supply voltage waveform indicated in Section 4, Paragraph 4.3.2 of IEC 62301. If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the total harmonic content during the test measurement period, total harmonic content may be measured and recorded immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.2
Supply water.
Maintain the temperature of the hot water supply at the water inlets between 120 °F (48.9 °C) and 125 °F (51.7 °C), targeting the midpoint of the range. Maintain the temperature of the cold water supply at the water inlets between 55 °F (12.8 °C) and 60 °F (15.6 °C), targeting the midpoint of the range.
2.3
Water pressure.
Maintain the static water pressure at the hot and cold water inlet connection of the clothes washer at 35 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) ± 2.5 psig (241.3 kPa ± 17.2 kPa) when the water is flowing.
2.4
Test room temperature.
For all clothes washers, maintain the test room ambient air temperature at 75 ± 5 °F (23.9 ± 2.8 °C) for active mode testing and combined low-power mode testing. Do not use the test room ambient air temperature conditions specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301 for combined low-power mode testing.
2.5
Instrumentation.
Perform all test measurements using the following instruments, as appropriate:
2.5.1
Weighing scales.
2.5.1.1
Weighing scale for test cloth.
The scale used for weighing test cloth must have a resolution of no larger than 0.2 oz (5.7 g)
and a maximum error no greater than 0.3 percent of the measured value.
2.5.1.2
Weighing scale for clothes container capacity measurement.
The scale used for performing the clothes container capacity measurement must have a resolution no larger than 0.50 lbs (0.23 kg) and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.5.2
Watt-hour meter.
The watt-hour meter used to measure electrical energy consumption must have a resolution no larger than 1 Wh (3.6 kJ) and a maximum error no greater than 2 percent of the measured value for any demand greater than 50 Wh (180.0 kJ).
2.5.3
Watt meter.
The watt meter used to measure combined low-power mode power consumption must comply with the requirements specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301. If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the crest factor, power factor, or maximum current ratio during the test measurement period, the crest factor, power factor, and maximum current ratio may be measured and recorded immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.5.4
Water and air temperature measuring devices.
The temperature devices used to measure water and air temperature must have an error no greater than ±1 °F (±0.6 °C) over the range being measured.
2.5.4.1 Non-reversible temperature indicator labels, adhered to the inside of the clothes container, may be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than or equal to 140 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle, under the following conditions. The label must remain waterproof, intact, and adhered to the wash drum throughout an entire wash cycle; provide consistent maximum temperature readings; and provide repeatable temperature indications sufficient to demonstrate that a wash temperature of greater than or equal to 140 °F has been achieved. The label must have been verified to consistently indicate temperature measurements with an accuracy of ±1 °F. If using a temperature indicator label to test a front-loading clothes washer, adhere the label along the interior surface of the clothes container drum, midway between the front and the back of the drum, adjacent to one of the baffles. If using a temperature indicator label to test a top-loading clothes washer, adhere the label along the interior surface of the clothes container drum, on the vertical portion of the sidewall, as close to the bottom of the container as possible.
2.5.4.2 Submersible temperature loggers placed inside the wash drum may be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than or equal to 140 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle, under the following conditions. The submersible temperature logger must have a time resolution of at least 1 data point every 5 seconds and a temperature measurement accuracy of ±1 °F. Due to the potential for a waterproof capsule to provide a thermal insulating effect, failure to measure a temperature of 140 °F does not necessarily indicate the lack of an extra-hot wash temperature. However, such a result would not be conclusive due to the lack of verification of the water temperature requirement, in which case an alternative method must be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than or equal to 140 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle.
2.5.5
Water meter.
A water meter must be installed in both the hot and cold water lines to measure water flow and/or water consumption. The water meters must have a resolution no larger than 0.1 gallons (0.4 liters) and a maximum error no greater than 2 percent for the water flow rates being measured. If the volume of hot water for any individual cycle within the energy test cycle is less than 0.1 gallons (0.4 liters), the hot water meter must have a resolution no larger than 0.01 gallons (0.04 liters).
2.5.6
Water pressure gauge.
A water pressure gauge must be installed in both the hot and cold water lines to measure water pressure. The water pressure gauges must have a resolution of 1 pound per square inch gauge (psig) (6.9 kPa) and a maximum error no greater than 5 percent of any measured value.
2.6
Bone-dryer.
The dryer used for drying the cloth to bone-dry must heat the test cloth load above 210 °F (99 °C).
2.7
Test cloths.
The test cloth material and dimensions must conform to the specifications in appendix J3 to this subpart. The energy test cloth and the energy stuffer cloths must be clean and must not be used for more than 60 test runs (after preconditioning as specified in section 5 of appendix J3 to this subpart). All energy test cloth must be permanently marked identifying the lot number of the material. Mixed lots of material must not be used for testing a clothes washer. The moisture absorption and retention must be evaluated for each new lot of test cloth using the standard extractor Remaining Moisture Content (RMC) procedure specified in appendix J3 to this subpart.
2.8
Test Loads.
2.8.1
Test load sizes.
Create small and large test loads as defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix based on the clothes container capacity as measured in section 3.1 of this appendix. Record the bone-dry weight for each test load.
2.8.2
Test load composition.
Test loads must consist primarily of energy test cloths and no more than five energy stuffer cloths per load to achieve the proper weight.
2.9
Preparation and loading of test loads.
Use the following procedures to prepare and load each test load for testing in section 3 of this appendix.
2.9.1 Test loads for energy and water consumption measurements must be bone-dry prior to the first cycle of the test, and dried to a maximum of 104 percent of bone-dry weight for subsequent testing.
2.9.2 Prepare the energy test cloths for loading by grasping them in the center, lifting, and shaking them to hang loosely, as illustrated in Figure 2.9.2 of this appendix.
ER01JN22.000
For all clothes washers, follow any manufacturer loading instructions provided to the user regarding the placement of clothing within the clothes container. In the absence of any manufacturer instructions regarding the placement of clothing within the clothes container, the following loading instructions apply.
2.9.2.1 To load the energy test cloths in a top-loading clothes washer, arrange the cloths circumferentially around the axis of rotation of the clothes container, using alternating lengthwise orientations for adjacent pieces of cloth. Complete each cloth layer across its horizontal plane within the clothes container before adding a new layer. Figure 2.9.2.1 of this appendix illustrates the correct loading technique for a vertical-axis clothes washer.
ER01JN22.001
2.9.2.2 To load the energy test cloths in a front-loading clothes washer, grasp each test cloth in the center as indicted in section 2.9.2 of this appendix, and then place each cloth into the clothes container prior to activating the clothes washer.
2.10
Clothes washer installation.
Install the clothes washer in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
2.10.1
Water inlet connections.
If the clothes washer has 2 water inlets, connect the inlets to the hot water and cold water supplies, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. If the clothes washer has only 1 water inlet, connect the inlet to the cold water supply, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Use the water inlet hoses provided with the clothes washer; otherwise use commercially available water inlet hoses, not to exceed 72 inches in length, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
2.10.2
Low-power mode testing.
For combined low-power mode testing, install the clothes washer in accordance with Section 5, Paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301, disregarding the provisions regarding batteries and the determination, classification, and testing of relevant modes.
2.11
Clothes washer pre-conditioning.
If the clothes washer has not been filled with water in the preceding 96 hours, or if it has not been in the test room at the specified ambient conditions for 8 hours, pre-condition it by running it through a cold rinse cycle and then draining it to ensure that the hose, pump, and sump are filled with water.
2.12
Determining the energy test cycle
.
2.12.1
Automatic clothes washers.
To determine the energy test cycle, evaluate the wash/rinse temperature selection flowcharts in the order in which they are presented in this section. Use the large load size to evaluate each flowchart. The determination of the energy test cycle must take into consideration all cycle settings available to the end user, including any cycle selections or cycle modifications provided by the manufacturer via software or firmware updates to the product, for the basic model under test. The energy test cycle does not include any cycle that is recommended by the manufacturer exclusively for cleaning, deodorizing, or sanitizing the clothes washer.
ER01JN22.002
ER01JN22.003
ER01JN22.004
ER01JN22.005
ER01JN22.006
2.12.2.
Semi-automatic clothes washers.
The energy test cycle for semi-automatic clothes washers includes only the Cold Wash/Cold Rinse (“Cold”) test cycle. Energy and water use for all other wash/rinse temperature combinations are calculated numerically in section 3.4.2 of this appendix.

# 3. Test Measurements
3.1
Clothes container capacity.
Measure the entire volume that a clothes load could occupy within the clothes container during active mode washer operation according to the following procedures:
3.1.1 Place the clothes washer in such a position that the uppermost edge of the clothes container opening is leveled horizontally, so that the container will hold the
maximum amount of water. For front-loading clothes washers, the door seal and shipping bolts or other forms of bracing hardware to support the wash drum during shipping must remain in place during the capacity measurement. If the design of a front-loading clothes washer does not include shipping bolts or other forms of bracing hardware to support the wash drum during shipping, a laboratory may support the wash drum by other means, including temporary bracing or support beams. Any temporary bracing or support beams must keep the wash drum in a fixed position, relative to the geometry of the door and door seal components, that is representative of the position of the wash drum during normal operation. The method used must avoid damage to the unit that would affect the results of the energy and water testing. For a front-loading clothes washer that does not include shipping bolts or other forms of bracing hardware to support the wash drum during shipping, the laboratory must fully document the alternative method used to support the wash drum during capacity measurement, include such documentation in the final test report, and pursuant to § 429.71 of this chapter, the manufacturer must retain such documentation as part its test records.
3.1.2 Line the inside of the clothes container with a 2 mil thickness (0.051 mm) plastic bag. All clothes washer components that occupy space within the clothes container and that are recommended for use during a wash cycle must be in place and must be lined with a 2 mil thickness (0.051 mm) plastic bag to prevent water from entering any void space.
3.1.3 Record the total weight of the machine before adding water.
3.1.4 Fill the clothes container manually with either 60 °F ± 5 °F (15.6 °C ± 2.8 °C) or 100 °F ± 10 °F (37.8 °C ± 5.5 °C) water, with the door open. For a top-loading vertical-axis clothes washer, fill the clothes container to the uppermost edge of the rotating portion, including any balance ring. Figure 3.1.4.1 of this appendix illustrates the maximum fill level for top-loading clothes washers.
ER01JN22.007
For a front-loading horizontal-axis clothes washer, fill the clothes container to the highest point of contact between the door and the door gasket. If any portion of the door or gasket would occupy the measured volume space when the door is closed, exclude from the measurement the volume that the door or gasket portion would occupy. For a front-loading horizontal-axis clothes washer with a concave door shape, include any additional volume above the plane defined by the highest point of contact between the door and the door gasket, if that area can be occupied by clothing during washer operation. For a top-loading horizontal-axis clothes washer, include any additional volume above the plane of the door hinge that clothing could occupy during washer operation. Figure 3.1.4.2 of this appendix illustrates the maximum fill volumes for all horizontal-axis clothes washer types.
ER01JN22.008
For all clothes washers, exclude any volume that cannot be occupied by the clothing load during operation.
3.1.5 Measure and record the weight of water, W, in pounds.
3.1.6 Calculate the clothes container capacity as follows:
C = W/d
Where:
C = Capacity in cubic feet (liters).
W = Mass of water in pounds (kilograms).
d = Density of water (62.0 lbs/ft
3
for 100 °F (993 kg/m
3
for 37.8 °C) or 62.3 lbs/ft
3
for 60 °F (998 kg/m
3
for 15.6 °C)).
3.1.7 Calculate the clothes container capacity, C, to the nearest 0.01 cubic foot for the purpose of determining test load sizes per Table 5.1 of this appendix and for all subsequent calculations that include the clothes container capacity.
3.2
Cycle settings.
3.2.1
Wash/rinse temperature selection.
For automatic clothes washers, set the wash/rinse temperature selection control to obtain the desired wash/rinse temperature selection within the energy test cycle.
3.2.2
Wash time setting.
3.2.2.1 If the cycle under test offers a range of wash time settings, the wash time setting shall be the higher of either the minimum or 70 percent of the maximum wash time available for the wash cycle under test, regardless of the labeling of suggested dial locations. If 70 percent of the maximum wash time is not available on a dial with a discrete number of wash time settings, choose the next-highest setting greater than 70 percent.
3.2.2.2 If the clothes washer is equipped with an electromechanical dial or timer controlling wash time that rotates in both directions, reset the dial to the minimum wash time and then turn it in the direction of increasing wash time to reach the appropriate setting. If the appropriate setting is passed, return the dial to the minimum wash time and then turn in the direction of increasing wash time until the appropriate setting is reached.
3.2.3
Water fill level settings.
The water fill level settings depend on the clothes washer's water fill control system, as determined in Table 3.2.3.
Table 3.2.3—Clothes Washer Water Fill Control Settings
Settings are
user-adjustable
Settings are not
user-adjustable
Water fill level unaffected by the size or weight of the clothing load
Manual water fill
Fixed water fill.
Water fill level is determined automatically by the clothes washer based on the size and weight of the clothing load
User-adjustable adaptive water fill
Non-user-adjustable adaptive water fill.
3.2.3.1
Clothes washers with a manual water fill control system.
For the large test load size, set the water fill level selector to the maximum water fill level setting available for the wash cycle under test. If the water fill level selector has two settings available for the wash cycle under test, for the small test load size, select the minimum water fill level setting available for the wash cycle under test.
If the water fill level selector has more than two settings available for the wash cycle under test, for the small test load size, select the second-lowest water fill level setting.
3.2.3.2
Clothes washers with a fixed water fill control system.
The water level is automatically determined by the water fill control system.
3.2.3.3
Clothes washers with a user-adjustable adaptive water fill control system.
For the
large test load size, set the water fill selector to the setting that uses the most water. For the small test load size, set the water fill selector to the setting that uses the least water.
3.2.3.4
Clothes washers with a non-user-adjustable adaptive water fill control system.
The water level is automatically determined by the water fill control system.
3.2.3.5
Clothes washers with multiple water fill control systems.
If a clothes washer allows user selection among multiple water fill control systems, test all water fill control systems and, for each one, calculate the energy consumption (HE
T
, ME
T
, DE
T
, and E
TLP
) and water consumption (Q
T
) values as set forth in section 4 of this appendix. Then, calculate the average of the tested values (one from each water fill control system) for each variable (HE
T
, ME
T
, DE
T
, E
TLP
, and Q
T
) and use the average value for each variable in the final calculations in section 4 of this appendix.
3.2.4
Manufacturer default settings.
For clothes washers with electronic control systems, use the manufacturer default settings for any cycle selections, except for (1) the temperature selection, (2) the wash water fill levels, or (3) network settings. If the clothes washer has network capabilities, the network settings must be disabled throughout testing if such settings can be disabled by the end-user and the product's user manual provides instructions on how to do so. For all other cycle selections, the manufacturer default settings must be used for wash conditions such as agitation/tumble operation, soil level, spin speed, wash times, rinse times, optional rinse settings, water heating time for water heating clothes washers, and all other wash parameters or optional features applicable to that wash cycle. Any optional wash cycle feature or setting (other than wash/rinse temperature, water fill level selection, or network settings on clothes washers with network capabilities) that is activated by default on the wash cycle under test must be included for testing unless the manufacturer instructions recommend not selecting this option, or recommend selecting a different option, for washing normally soiled cotton clothing. For clothes washers with control panels containing mechanical switches or dials, any optional settings, except for the temperature selection or the wash water fill levels, must be in the position recommended by the manufacturer for washing normally soiled cotton clothing. If the manufacturer instructions do not recommend a particular switch or dial position to be used for washing normally soiled cotton clothing, the setting switch or dial must remain in its as-shipped position.
3.2.5 For each wash cycle tested, include the entire active washing mode and exclude any delay start or cycle finished modes.
3.2.6
Anomalous Test Cycles.
If during a wash cycle the clothes washer: (a) Signals to the user by means of a visual or audio alert that an out-of-balance condition has been detected; or (b) terminates prematurely and thus does not include the agitation/tumble operation, spin speed(s), wash times, and rinse times applicable to the wash cycle under test, discard the test data and repeat the wash cycle. Document in the test report the rejection of data from any wash cycle during testing and the reason for the rejection.
3.3
Test cycles for automatic clothes washers.
Perform testing on each wash/rinse temperature selection available in the energy test cycle as defined in section 2.12.1 of this appendix. Test each load size as defined in section 2.8 of this appendix with its associated water fill level defined in section 3.2.3 of this appendix. Assign the bone-dry weight according to the value measured in section 2.8 of this appendix. Place the test load in the clothes washer and initiate the cycle under test. Measure the values for hot water consumption, cold water consumption, electrical energy consumption, and cycle time for the complete cycle. Record the weight of the test load immediately after completion of the cycle. Table 3.3 of this appendix provides the symbol definitions for each measured value.
Table 3.3—Symbol Definitions of Measured Values for Automatic Clothes Washer Test Cycles
Wash/rinse
temperature
selection
Load size
Bone-dry weight
Hot water
Cold water
Electrical
energy
Cycle time
Cycle
complete
weight
Extra-Hot/Cold
Large
WIx
L
Hx
L
Cx
L
Ex
L
Tx
L
WCx
L
Small
WIx
S
Hx
S
Cx
S
Ex
S
Tx
S
WCx
S
Hot/Cold
Large
WIh
L
Hh
L
Ch
L
Eh
L
Th
L
WCh
L
Small
WIh
S
Hh
S
Ch
S
Eh
S
Th
S
WCh
S
Warm/Cold *
Large
WIw
L
Hw
L
Cw
L
Ew
L
Tw
L
WCw
L
Small
WIw
S
Hw
S
Cw
S
Ew
S
Tw
S
WCw
S
Warm/Warm *
Large
WIww
L
Hww
L
Cww
L
Eww
L
Tww
L
WCww
L
Small
WIww
S
Hww
S
Cww
S
Eww
S
Tww
S
WCww
S
Cold/Cold
Large
WIc
L
Hc
L
Cc
L
Ec
L
Tc
L
WCc
L
Small
WIc
S
Hc
S
Cc
S
Ec
S
Tc
S
WCc
S
* If two cycles are tested to represent the Warm/Cold selection or the Warm/Warm selection, calculate the average of the two tested cycles and use that value for all further calculations.
3.4
Test cycles for semi-automatic clothes washers.
3.4.1
Test Measurements.
Perform testing on each wash/rinse temperature selection available in the energy test cycle as defined in section 2.12.2 of this appendix. Test each load size as defined in section 2.8 of this appendix with the associated water fill level defined in section 3.2.3 of this appendix. Assign the bone-dry weight according to the value measured in section 2.8 of this appendix. Place the test load in the clothes washer and initiate the cycle under test. Measure the values for cold water consumption, electrical energy consumption, and cycle time for the complete cycle. Record the weight of the test load immediately after completion of the cycle. Table 3.4.1 of this appendix provides symbol definitions for each measured value for the Cold temperature selection.
Table 3.4.1—Symbol Definitions of Measured Values for Semi-Automatic Clothes Washer Test Cycles
Temperature selection
Load size
Bone-dry
weight
Hot water
Cold water
Electrical
energy
Cycle time
Cycle
complete
weight
Cold
Large
WIc
L
not measured
Cc
L
Ec
L
Tc
L
WCc
L
Small
WIc
S
not measured
Cc
S
Ec
S
Tc
S
WCc
S
3.4.2
Calculation of Hot and Warm measured values.
In lieu of testing, the measured values for the Hot and Warm cycles are calculated based on the measured values for the Cold cycle, as defined in section 3.4.1 of this appendix. Table 3.4.2 of this appendix provides the symbol definitions and calculations for each value for the Hot and Warm temperature selections.
Table 3.4.2—Symbol Definitions and Calculation of Measured Values for Semi-Automatic Clothes Washer Test Cycles
Temperature selection
Load Size
Bone-Dry
weight
Hot water
Cold water
Electrical energy
Cycle time
Cycle
complete
weight
Hot
Large
WIh
L
= WIc
L
Hh
L
= Cc
L
Eh
L
= Ec
L
Th
L
= Tc
L
WCh
L
= WCc
L
Small
WIh
S
= WIc
S
Hh
S
= Cc
S
Eh
S
= Ec
S
Th
S
= Tc
S
WCh
S
= WCc
S
Warm
Large
WIw
L
= WIc
L
Hw
L
= Cc
L
÷ 2
Cw
L
= Cc
L
÷ 2
Ew
L
= Ec
L
Tw
L
= Tc
L
WCw
L
= WCc
L
Small
WIw
S
= WIc
S
Hw
S
= Cc
S
÷ 2
Cw
S
= Cc
S
÷ 2
Ew
S
= Ec
S
Tw
S
= Tc
S
WCw
S
= WCc
S
3.5
Combined low-power mode power.
Connect the clothes washer to a watt meter as specified in section 2.5.3 of this appendix. Establish the testing conditions set forth in sections 2.1, 2.4, and 2.10.2 of this appendix.
3.5.1 Perform combined low-power mode testing after completion of an active mode wash cycle included as part of the energy test cycle; after removing the test load; without changing the control panel settings used for the active mode wash cycle; with the door closed; and without disconnecting the electrical energy supply to the clothes washer between completion of the active mode wash cycle and the start of combined low-power mode testing.
3.5.2 For a clothes washer that takes some time to automatically enter a stable inactive mode or off mode state from a higher
power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, note 1 of IEC 62301, allow sufficient time for the clothes washer to automatically reach the default inactive/off mode state before proceeding with the test measurement.
3.5.3 Once the stable inactive/off mode state has been reached, measure and record the default inactive/off mode power, P
default
, in watts, following the test procedure for the sampling method specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301.
3.5.4 For a clothes washer with a switch, dial, or button that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode state than the default inactive/off mode state measured in section 3.5.3 of this appendix, after performing the measurement in section 3.5.3 of this appendix, activate the switch, dial, or button to the position resulting in the lowest power consumption and repeat the measurement procedure described in section 3.5.3 of this appendix. Measure and record the lowest-power inactive/off mode power, P
lowest
, in Watts.
3.6
Energy consumption for the purpose of determining the cycle selection(s) to be included in the energy test cycle.
This section is implemented only in cases where the energy test cycle flowcharts in section 2.12.1 of this appendix require the determination of the wash/rinse temperature selection with the highest energy consumption.
3.6.1 For the wash/rinse temperature selection being considered under this section, establish the testing conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix. Select the applicable cycle selection and wash/rinse temperature selection. For all wash/rinse temperature selections, select the cycle settings as described in section 3.2 of this appendix.
3.6.2 Measure each wash cycle's electrical energy consumption (E
L
) and hot water consumption (H
L
). Calculate the total energy consumption for each cycle selection (E
TL
), as follows:
E
TL
= E
L
+ (H
L
× T × K)
Where:
E
L
is the electrical energy consumption, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle.
H
L
is the hot water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle.
T = nominal temperature rise = 65 °F (36.1 °C).
K = Water specific heat in kilowatt-hours per gallon per degree F = 0.00240 kWh/gal − °F (0.00114 kWh/L − °C).

# 4. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
4.1
Hot water and machine electrical energy consumption of clothes washers.
4.1.1
Per-cycle temperature-weighted hot water consumption for all load sizes tested.
Calculate the per-cycle temperature-weighted hot water consumption for the large test load size, Vh
L,
and the small test load size, Vh
S
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
(a) Vh
L
= [Hx
L
× TUF
X
] + [Hh
L
× TUF
h
] + [Hw
L
× TUF
w
] + [Hww
L
× TUF
ww
] + [Hc
L
× TUF
c
]
(b) Vh
S
= [Hx
S
× TUF
X
] + [Hh
S
× TUF
h
] + [Hw
S
× TUF
w
] + [Hww
S
× TUF
ww
] + [Hc
S
× TUF
c
]
Where:
Hx
L
, Hh
L
, Hw
L
, Hww
L
, Hc
L
, Hx
S
, Hh
S
, Hw
S
, Hww
S
, and Hc
S
are the hot water consumption values, in gallons per-cycle (or liters per cycle) as measured in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
TUF
X
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are temperature use factors for Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selections, respectively, as defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
Table 4.1.1—Temperature Use Factors
Wash/rinse temperature selections available in the energy test cycle
Clothes washers with cold rinse only
C/C
H/C
C/C
H/C
W/C
C/C
*
XH/C
H/C
C/C
XH/C
H/C
W/C
C/C
Clothes washers with both cold and warm rinse
H/C
W/C
W/W
C/C
XH/C
H/C
W/W
C/C
XH/C
H/C
W/C
W/W
C/C
TUFx (Extra-Hot/Cold)
0.14
0.05
0.14
0.05
TUFh (Hot/Cold)
0.63
0.14
** 0.49
0.09
0.14
** 0.22
0.09
TUFw (Warm/Cold)
0.49
0.49
0.22
0.22
TUFww (Warm/Warm)
0.27
0.27
0.27
TUFc (Cold/Cold)
1.00
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
* This column applies to all semi-automatic clothes washers.
** On clothes washers with only two wash temperature selections
140 °F, the higher of the two wash temperatures is classified as a Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, in accordance with the wash/rinse temperature definitions within the energy test cycle.
4.1.2
Total per-cycle hot water energy consumption for all load sizes tested.
Calculate the total per-cycle hot water energy consumption for the large test load size, HE
L,
and the small test load size, HE
S
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
(a) HE
L
= [Vh
L
× T × K] = Total energy when the large test load is tested.
(b) HE
S
= [Vh
S
× T × K] = Total energy when the small test load is tested.
Where:
Vh
L
and Vh
S
are defined in section 4.1.1 of this appendix.
T = Temperature rise = 65 °F (36.1 °C).
K = Water specific heat in kilowatt-hours per gallon per degree F = 0.00240 kWh/gal − °F (0.00114 kWh/L − °C).
4.1.3
Total weighted per-cycle hot water energy consumption.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle hot water energy consumption, HE
T,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
HE
T
= [HE
L
× LUF
L
] + [HE
S
× LUF
S
]
Where:
HE
L
and HE
S
are defined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix.
LUF
L
= Load usage factor for the large test load = 0.5.
LUF
S
= Load usage factor for the small test load = 0.5.
4.1.4
Total per-cycle hot water energy consumption using gas-heated or oil-heated water, for product labeling requirements.
Calculate for the energy test cycle the per-cycle hot water consumption, HE
TG,
using gas-heated or oil-heated water, expressed in Btu per cycle (or megajoules per cycle) and defined as:
HE
TG
= HE
T
× 1/e × 3412 Btu/kWh or HE
TG
= HE
T
× 1/e × 3.6 MJ/kWh.
Where:
e = Nominal gas or oil water heater efficiency = 0.75.
HE
T
= As defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.1.5
Per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption for all load sizes tested.
Calculate the total per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption for the large test load size, ME
L,
and the small test load size, ME
S
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
(a) ME
L
= [Ex
L
× TUF
X
] + [Eh
L
× TUF
h
] + [Ew
L
× TUF
w
] + [Eww
L
× TUF
ww
] + [Ec
L
× TUF
c
]
(b) ME
S
= [Ex
S
× TUF
X
] + [Eh
S
× TUF
h
] + [Ew
S
× TUF
w
] + [Eww
S
× TUF
ww
] + [Ec
S
× TUF
c
]
Where:
Ex
L
, Eh
L
, Ew
L
, Eww
L
, Ec
L
, Ex
S
, Eh
S
, Ew
S
, Eww
S
, and Ec
S
are the electrical energy consumption values, in kilowatt-hours per cycle as measured in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
TUF
X
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
4.1.6
Total weighted per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption, ME
T,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
ME
T
= [ME
L
× LUF
L
] + [ME
S
× LUF
S
]
Where:
ME
L
and ME
S
are defined in section 4.1.5 of this appendix.
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2
Water consumption of clothes washers.
4.2.1
Per cycle total water consumption for each large load size tested.
Calculate the per-cycle total water consumption of the large test load for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qx
L,
Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qh
L
, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qw
L
, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, Qww
L
, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qc
L
, defined as:
(a) Qx
L
= Hx
L
+ Cx
L
(b) Qh
L
= Hh
L
+ Ch
L
(c) Qw
L
= Hw
L
+ Cw
L
(d) Qww
L
= Hww
L
+ Cww
L
(e) Qc
L
= Hc
L
+ Cc
L
Where:
Hx
L
, Hh
L
, Hw
L
, Hww
L
, Hc
L
, Cx
L
, Ch
L
, Cw
L
, Cww
L
, and Cc
L
are defined in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
4.2.2
Per cycle total water consumption for each small load size tested.
Calculate the per-cycle total water consumption of the small test load for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qx
S,
Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qh
S
, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qw
S
, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, Qww
S
, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qc
S
, defined as:
(a) Qx
S
= Hx
S
+ Cx
S
(b) Qh
S
= Hh
S
+ Ch
S
(c) Qw
S
= Hw
S
+ Cw
S
(d) Qww
S
= Hww
S
+ Cww
S
(e) Qc
S
= Hc
S
+ Cc
S
Where:
Hx
S
, Hh
S
, Hw
S
, Hww
S
, Hc
S
, Cx
S
, Ch
S
, Cw
S
, Cww
S
, and Cc
S
are defined in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
4.2.3
Per-cycle total water consumption for all load sizes tested.
Calculate the total per-
cycle water consumption for the large test load size, Q
L,
and the small test load size, Q
S
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
(a) Q
L
= [Qx
L
× TUFx] + [Qh
L
× TUFh] + [Qw
L
× TUFw] + [Qww
L
× TUFww] + [Qc
L
× TUFc]
(b) Q
S
= [Qx
S
× TUFx] + [Qh
S
× TUFh] + [Qw
S
× TUFw] + [Qww
S
× TUFww] + [Qc
S
× TUFc]
Where:
Qx
L
, Qh
L
, Qw
L
, Qww
L
, and Qc
L
are defined in section 4.2.1 of this appendix.
Qx
S
, Qh
S
, Qw
S
, Qww
S
, and Qc
S
are defined in section 4.2.2 of this appendix.
TUFx, TUFh, TUFw, TUFww, and TUFc are defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
4.2.4
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption.
Calculate the total per-cycle water consumption, Q
T,
expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Q
T
= [Q
L
× LUF
L
] + [Q
S
× LUF
S
]
Where:
Q
L
and Q
S
are defined in section 4.2.3 of this appendix.
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.3
Remaining moisture content (RMC).
4.3.1
Per cycle remaining moisture content for each large load size tested.
Calculate the per-cycle remaining moisture content of the large test load for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCx
L,
Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCh
L
, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCw
L
, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, RMCww
L
, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCc
L
, defined as:
(a) RMCx
L
= (WCx
L
− WIx
L
)/WIx
L
(b) RMCh
L
= (WCh
L
− WIh
L
)/WIh
L
(c) RMCw
L
= (WCw
L
− WIw
L
)/WIw
L
(d) RMCww
L
= (WCww
L
− WIww
L
)/WIww
L
(e) RMCc
L
= (WCc
L
− WIc
L
)/WIc
L
Where:
WCx
L
, WCh
L
, WCw
L
, WCww
L
, WCc
L
, WIx
L
, WIh
L
, WIw
L
, WIww
L
, and WIc
L
are the bone-dry weights and cycle completion weights as measured in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
4.3.2
Per cycle remaining moisture content for each small load size tested.
Calculate the per-cycle remaining moisture content of the small test load for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCx
S,
Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCh
S
, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCw
S
, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, RMCww
S
, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, RMCc
S
, defined as:
(a) RMCx
S
= (WCx
S
—WIx
S
)/WIx
S
(b) RMCh
S
= (WCh
S
—WIh
S
)/WIh
S
(c) RMCw
S
= (WCw
S
—WIw
S
)/WIw
S
(d) RMCww
S
= (WCww
S
—WIww
S
)/WIww
S
(e) RMCc
S
= (WCc
S
—WIc
S
)/WIc
S
Where:
WCx
S
, WCh
S
, WCw
S
, WCww
S
, WCc
S
, WIx
S
, WIh
S
, WIw
S
, WIww
S
, and WIc
S
are the bone-dry weights and cycle completion weights as measured in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
4.3.3
Per-cycle remaining moisture content for all load sizes tested.
Calculate the per-cycle temperature-weighted remaining moisture content for the large test load size, RMC
L,
and the small test load size, RMC
S
, defined as:
(a) RMC
L
= [RMCx
L
× TUF
X
] + [RMCh
L
× TUF
h
] + [RMCw
L
× TUF
w
] + [RMCww
L
× TUF
ww
] + [RMCc
L
× TUF
c
]
(b) RMC
S
= [RMCx
S
× TUF
X
] + [RMCh
S
× TUF
h
] + [RMCw
S
× TUF
w
] + [RMCww
S
× TUF
ww
] + [RMCc
S
× TUF
c
]
Where:
RMCx
L
, RMCh
L
, RMCw
L
, RMCww
L
, and RMCc
L
are defined in section 4.3.1 of this appendix.
RMCx
S
, RMCh
S
, RMCw
S
, RMCww
S
, and RMCc
S
are defined in section 4.3.2 of this appendix.
TUF
X
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
4.3.4
Weighted per-cycle remaining moisture content.
Calculate the weighted per-cycle remaining moisture content, RMC
T,
defined as:
RMC
T
= [RMC
L
× LUF
L
] + [RMC
S
× LUF
S
]
Where:
RMC
L
and RMC
S
are defined in section 4.3.3 of this appendix.
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.3.5 Apply the RMC correction curve as described in section 9 of appendix J3 to this subpart to calculate the corrected remaining moisture content, RMC
corr
, expressed as a percentage as follows:
RMC
corr
= (A × RMC
T
+ B) × 100%
Where:
A and B are the coefficients of the RMC correction curve as defined in section 8.7 of appendix J3 to this subpart.
RMC
T
= As defined in section 4.3.4 of this appendix.
4.4
Per-cycle energy consumption for removal of moisture from test load.
Calculate the per-cycle energy required to remove the remaining moisture of the test load, DE
T,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
DE
T
= [(LUF
L
× Large test load weight) + (LUF
S
× Small test load weight)] × (RMC
corr
−2%) × (DEF) × (DUF)
Where:
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
Large and small test load weights are defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
RMC
corr
= As defined in section 4.3.5 of this appendix.
DEF = Nominal energy required for a clothes dryer to remove moisture from clothes = 0.5 kWh/lb (1.1 kWh/kg).
DUF = Dryer usage factor, percentage of washer loads dried in a clothes dryer = 0.91.
4.5
Cycle time.
4.5.1
Per-cycle temperature-weighted cycle time for all load sizes tested.
Calculate the per-cycle temperature-weighted cycle time for the large test load size, T
L,
and the small test load size, T
S
, expressed in minutes, and defined as:
(a) T
L
= [Tx
L
× TUF
X
] + [Th
L
× TUF
h
] + [Tw
L
× TUF
w
] + [Tww
L
× TUF
ww
] + [Tc
L
× TUF
c
]
(b) T
S
= [Tx
S
× TUF
X
] + [Th
S
× TUF
h
] + [Tw
S
× TUF
w
] + [Tww
S
× TUF
ww
] + [Tc
S
× TUF
c
]
Where:
Tx
L
, Th
L
, Tw
L
, Tww
L
, Tc
L
, Tx
S
, Th
S
, Tw
S
, Tww
S
, and Tc
S
are the cycle time values, in minutes as measured in section 3.3 of this appendix for automatic clothes washers or section 3.4 of this appendix for semi-automatic clothes washers.
TUF
X
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are temperature use factors for Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selections, respectively, as defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
4.5.2
Total weighted per-cycle cycle time.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle cycle time, T
T,
expressed in minutes, rounded to the nearest minute, and defined as:
T
T
= [T
L
× LUF
L
] + [T
S
× LUF
S
]
Where:
T
L
and T
S
are defined in section 4.5.1 of this appendix.
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.6 Combined low-power mode energy consumption.
4.6.1
Annual hours in default inactive/off mode.
Calculate the annual hours spent in default inactive/off mode, S
default
, expressed in hours and defined as:
S
default
= [8,760−(234 × T
T
/60)]/N
Where:
T
T
= As defined in section 4.5.2 of this appendix, in minutes.
N = Number of inactive/off modes, defined as 1 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 2.
8,760 = Total number of hours in a year.
234 = Representative average number of clothes washer cycles in a year.
60 = Conversion from minutes to hours.
4.6.2
Per-cycle combined low-power mode energy consumption.
Calculate the per-cycle combined low-power mode energy consumption, E
TLP,
expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
TLP
= [(P
default
× S
default
) + (P
lowest
× S
lowest
)] × K
p
/234
Where:
P
default
= Default inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.
P
lowest
= Lowest-power inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.5.4 of this appendix for clothes washers with a switch, dial, or button that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode than the default inactive/off mode; otherwise, P
lowest
= 0.
S
default
= Annual hours in default inactive/off mode, as calculated in section 4.6.1 of this appendix.
S
lowest
= Annual hours in lowest-power inactive/off mode, defined as 0 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise equal to S
default
, as calculated in section 4.6.1 of this appendix.
K
p
= Conversion factor of watt-hours to kilowatt-hours = 0.001.
234 = Representative average number of clothes washer cycles in a year.
4.7
Water efficiency ratio.
Calculate the water efficiency ratio, WER, expressed in pounds per gallon per cycle (or kilograms per liter per cycle), as:
WER = [(LUF
L
× Large test load weight) + (LUF
S
× Small test load weight)]/Q
T
Where:
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
Large and small test load weights are defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
Q
T
= As defined in section 4.2.4 of this appendix.
4.8
Active-mode energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the active-mode energy efficiency ratio, AEER, expressed in pounds per kilowatt-hour per cycle (or kilograms per kilowatt-hour per cycle) and defined as:
AEER = [(LUF
L
× Large test load weight) + (LUF
S
× Small test load weight)]/(ME
T
+ HE
T
+ DE
T
)
Where:
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
Large and small test load weights are defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
ME
T
= As defined in section 4.1.6 of this appendix.
HE
T
= As defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
DE
T
= As defined in section 4.4 of this appendix.
4.9
Energy efficiency ratio.
Calculate the energy efficiency ratio, EER, expressed in
pounds per kilowatt-hour per cycle (or kilograms per kilowatt-hour per cycle) and defined as:
EER = [(LUF
L
× Large test load weight) + (LUF
S
× Small test load weight)]/(ME
T
+ HE
T
+ DE
T
+ E
TLP
)
Where:
LUF
L
and LUF
S
are defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
Large and small test load weights are defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
ME
T
= As defined in section 4.1.6 of this appendix.
HE
T
= As defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
DE
T
= As defined in section 4.4 of this appendix.
E
TLP
= As defined in section 4.6.2 of this appendix.

# 5. Test Loads
Table 5.1—Test Load Sizes
Container volume
cu. ft.
≥
liter
≥
Small load
lb
kg
Large load
lb
kg
0.00-0.80
0.00-22.7
3.00
1.36
3.00
1.36
0.80-0.90
22.7-25.5
3.10
1.41
3.35
1.52
0.90-1.00
25.5-28.3
3.20
1.45
3.70
1.68
1.00-1.10
28.3-31.1
3.30
1.50
4.00
1.81
1.10-1.20
31.1-34.0
3.40
1.54
4.30
1.95
1.20-1.30
34.0-36.8
3.45
1.56
4.60
2.09
1.30-1.40
36.8-39.6
3.55
1.61
4.95
2.25
1.40-1.50
39.6-42.5
3.65
1.66
5.25
2.38
1.50-1.60
42.5-45.3
3.75
1.70
5.55
2.52
1.60-1.70
45.3-48.1
3.80
1.72
5.85
2.65
1.70-1.80
48.1-51.0
3.90
1.77
6.20
2.81
1.80-1.90
51.0-53.8
4.00
1.81
6.50
2.95
1.90-2.00
53.8-56.6
4.10
1.86
6.80
3.08
2.00-2.10
56.6-59.5
4.20
1.91
7.10
3.22
2.10-2.20
59.5-62.3
4.30
1.95
7.45
3.38
2.20-2.30
62.3-65.1
4.35
1.97
7.75
3.52
2.30-2.40
65.1-68.0
4.45
2.02
8.05
3.65
2.40-2.50
68.0-70.8
4.55
2.06
8.35
3.79
2.50-2.60
70.8-73.6
4.65
2.11
8.70
3.95
2.60-2.70
73.6-76.5
4.70
2.13
9.00
4.08
2.70-2.80
76.5-79.3
4.80
2.18
9.30
4.22
2.80-2.90
79.3-82.1
4.90
2.22
9.60
4.35
2.90-3.00
82.1-85.0
5.00
2.27
9.90
4.49
3.00-3.10
85.0-87.8
5.10
2.31
10.25
4.65
3.10-3.20
87.8-90.6
5.20
2.36
10.55
4.79
3.20-3.30
90.6-93.4
5.25
2.38
10.85
4.92
3.30-3.40
93.4-96.3
5.35
2.43
11.15
5.06
3.40-3.50
96.3-99.1
5.45
2.47
11.50
5.22
3.50-3.60
99.1-101.9
5.55
2.52
11.80
5.35
3.60-3.70
101.9-104.8
5.65
2.56
12.10
5.49
3.70-3.80
104.8-107.6
5.70
2.59
12.40
5.62
3.80-3.90
107.6-110.4
5.80
2.63
12.75
5.78
3.90-4.00
110.4-113.3
5.90
2.68
13.05
5.92
4.00-4.10
113.3-116.1
6.00
2.72
13.35
6.06
4.10-4.20
116.1-118.9
6.10
2.77
13.65
6.19
4.20-4.30
118.9-121.8
6.15
2.79
14.00
6.35
4.30-4.40
121.8-124.6
6.25
2.83
14.30
6.49
4.40-4.50
124.6-127.4
6.35
2.88
14.60
6.62
4.50-4.60
127.4-130.3
6.45
2.93
14.90
6.76
4.60-4.70
130.3-133.1
6.55
2.97
15.25
6.92
4.70-4.80
133.1-135.9
6.60
2.99
15.55
7.05
4.80-4.90
135.9-138.8
6.70
3.04
15.85
7.19
4.90-5.00
138.8-141.6
6.80
3.08
16.15
7.33
5.00-5.10
141.6-144.4
6.90
3.13
16.50
7.48
5.10-5.20
144.4-147.2
7.00
3.18
16.80
7.62
5.20-5.30
147.2-150.1
7.05
3.20
17.10
7.76
5.30-5.40
150.1-152.9
7.15
3.24
17.40
7.89
5.40-5.50
152.9-155.7
7.25
3.29
17.70
8.03
5.50-5.60
155.7-158.6
7.35
3.33
18.05
8.19
5.60-5.70
158.6-161.4
7.45
3.38
18.35
8.32
5.70-5.80
161.4-164.2
7.50
3.40
18.65
8.46
5.80-5.90
164.2-167.1
7.60
3.45
18.95
8.60
5.90-6.00
167.1-169.9
7.70
3.49
19.30
8.75
6.00-6.10
169.9-172.7
7.80
3.54
19.60
8.89
6.10-6.20
172.7-175.6
7.90
3.58
19.90
9.03
6.20-6.30
175.6-178.4
7.95
3.61
20.20
9.16
6.30-6.40
178.4-181.2
8.05
3.65
20.55
9.32
6.40-6.50
181.2-184.1
8.15
3.70
20.85
9.46
6.50-6.60
184.1-186.9
8.25
3.74
21.15
9.59
6.60-6.70
186.9-189.7
8.30
3.76
21.45
9.73
6.70-6.80
189.7-192.6
8.40
3.81
21.80
9.89
6.80-6.90
192.6-195.4
8.50
3.86
22.10
10.02
6.90-7.00
195.4-198.2
8.60
3.90
22.40
10.16
7.00-7.10
198.2-201.0
8.70
3.95
22.70
10.30
7.10-7.20
201.0-203.9
8.80
3.99
23.05
10.46
7.20-7.30
203.9-206.7
8.85
4.01
23.35
10.59
7.30-7.40
206.7-209.5
8.95
4.06
23.65
10.73
7.40-7.50
209.5-212.4
9.05
4.11
23.95
10.86
7.50-7.60
212.4-215.2
9.15
4.15
24.30
11.02
7.60-7.70
215.2-218.0
9.25
4.20
24.60
11.16
7.70-7.80
218.0-220.9
9.30
4.22
24.90
11.29
7.80-7.90
220.9-223.7
9.40
4.26
25.20
11.43
7.90-8.00
223.7-226.5
9.50
4.31
25.50
11.57
Notes:
(1) All test load weights are bone-dry weights.
(2) Allowable tolerance on the test load weights is ±0.10 lbs (0.05 kg).
[87 FR 33381, June 1, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 78820, Dec. 23, 2022; 89 FR 84076, Oct. 21, 2024]
Appendix J1 to Subpart B of Part 430 [Reserved]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. J2

# Appendix J2 to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Automatic and Semi-automatic Clothes Washers

# Note 1 to appendix J2 to subpart B of part 430:
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under this appendix to determine compliance with the residential clothes washer standards provided at § 430.32(g)(1) and the commercial clothes washer standards provided at § 431.156(b).
Manufacturers must use the results of testing under Appendix J to this subpart to determine compliance with the residential clothes washer standards provided at § 430.32(g)(2) and for any amended commercial clothes washer standards provided at § 431.156 that are published after January 1, 2022.
Any representations related to energy or water consumption of residential or commercial clothes washers must be made in accordance with the appropriate appendix that applies (
i.e.,
appendix J to this subpart or this appendix) when determining compliance with the relevant standard.

# 0. Incorporation by Reference
DOE incorporated by reference in § 430.3, the entire test standard for IEC 62301. However, only enumerated provisions of this standard are applicable to this appendix, as follows. In cases in which there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the referenced test standard.
0.1 IEC 62301:
(a) Section 4.2 as referenced in section 2.4 of this appendix;
(b) Section 4.3.2 as referenced in section 2.1.2 of this appendix;
(c) Section 4.4 as referenced in section 2.5.3 of this appendix;
(d) Section 5.1 as referenced in section 3.9.2 of this appendix;
(e) Section 5.2 as referenced in section 2.10 of this appendix; and
(f) Section 5.3.2 as referenced in section 3.9.3 of this appendix.
0.2 [Reserved]

# 1. Definitions
Active mode
means a mode in which the clothes washer is connected to a mains power source, has been activated, and is performing one or more of the main functions of washing, soaking, tumbling, agitating, rinsing, and/or removing water from the clothing, or is involved in functions necessary for these main functions, such as admitting water into the washer or pumping water out of the washer. Active mode also includes delay start and cycle finished modes.
Active washing mode
means a mode in which the clothes washer is performing any of the operations included in a complete cycle intended for washing a clothing load, including the main functions of washing, soaking, tumbling, agitating, rinsing, and/or removing water from the clothing.
Adaptive water fill control system
means a clothes washer automatic water fill control system that is capable of automatically adjusting the water fill level based on the size or weight of the clothes load placed in the clothes container.
Automatic water fill control system
means a clothes washer water fill control system that does not allow or require the user to determine or select the water fill level, and includes adaptive water fill control systems and fixed water fill control systems.
Bone-dry
means a condition of a load of test cloth that has been dried in a dryer at maximum temperature for a minimum of 10 minutes, removed and weighed before cool down, and then dried again for 10 minute periods until the final weight change of the load is 1 percent or less.
Clothes container
means the compartment within the clothes washer that holds the clothes during the operation of the machine.
Cold rinse
means the coldest rinse temperature available on the machine, as indicated to the user on the clothes washer control panel.
Combined low-power mode
means the aggregate of available modes other than active washing mode, including inactive mode, off mode, delay start mode, and cycle finished mode.
Cycle finished mode
means an active mode that provides continuous status display, intermittent tumbling, or air circulation following operation in active washing mode.
Delay start mode
means an active mode in which activation of active washing mode is facilitated by a timer.
Energy test cycle
means the complete set of wash/rinse temperature selections required for testing, as determined according to section 2.12 of this appendix.
Fixed water fill control system
means a clothes washer automatic water fill control system that automatically terminates the fill when the water reaches a pre-defined level that is not based on the size or weight of the clothes load placed in the clothes container, without allowing or requiring the user to determine or select the water fill level.
Inactive mode
means a standby mode that facilitates the activation of active mode by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer, or that provides continuous status display.
Integrated modified energy factor
means the quotient of the cubic foot (or liter) capacity of the clothes container divided by the total clothes washer energy consumption per cycle, with such energy consumption expressed as the sum of:
(a) The machine electrical energy consumption;
(b) The hot water energy consumption;
(c) The energy required for removal of the remaining moisture in the wash load; and
(d) The combined low-power mode energy consumption.
Integrated water factor
means the quotient of the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for all wash cycles in gallons divided by the cubic foot (or liter) capacity of the clothes washer.
Load usage factor
means the percentage of the total number of wash loads that a user would wash a particular size (weight) load.
Lot
means a quantity of cloth that has been manufactured with the same batches of cotton and polyester during one continuous process.
Manual water fill control system
means a clothes washer water fill control system that requires the user to determine or select the water fill level.
Modified energy factor
means the quotient of the cubic foot (or liter) capacity of the clothes container divided by the total clothes washer energy consumption per cycle, with such energy consumption expressed as the sum of the machine electrical energy consumption, the hot water energy consumption, and the energy required for removal of the remaining moisture in the wash load.
Non-water-heating clothes washer
means a clothes washer that does not have an internal water heating device to generate hot water.
Normal cycle
means the cycle recommended by the manufacturer (considering manufacturer instructions, control panel labeling, and other markings on the clothes washer) for normal, regular, or typical use for washing up to a full load of normally soiled cotton clothing. For machines where multiple cycle settings are recommended by the manufacturer for normal, regular, or typical use for washing up to a full load of normally soiled cotton clothing, then the Normal cycle is the cycle selection that results in the lowest IMEF or MEF
J2
value.
Off mode
means a mode in which the clothes washer is connected to a mains power source and is not providing any active or standby mode function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time.
Standby mode
means any mode in which the clothes washer is connected to a mains power source and offers one or more of the following user oriented or protective functions that may persist for an indefinite time:
(a) Facilitating the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer;
(b) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions.
(c) A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that provides regular scheduled tasks (
e.g.,
switching) and that operates on a continuous basis.
Temperature use factor
means, for a particular wash/rinse temperature setting, the percentage of the total number of wash loads that an average user would wash with that setting.
User-adjustable adaptive water fill control system
means a clothes washer fill control system that allows the user to adjust the amount of water that the machine provides, which is based on the size or weight of the clothes load placed in the clothes container.
Wash time
means the wash portion of active washing mode, which begins when the cycle is initiated and includes the agitation or tumble time, which may be periodic or continuous during the wash portion of active washing mode.
Water factor
means the quotient of the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for cold wash divided by the cubic foot (or liter) capacity of the clothes washer.
Water-heating clothes washer
means a clothes washer where some or all of the hot water for clothes washing is generated by a water heating device internal to the clothes washer.

# 2. Testing Conditions and Instrumentation
2.1
Electrical energy supply.
2.1.1
Supply voltage and frequency.
Maintain the electrical supply at the clothes washer terminal block within 2 percent of 120, 120/240, or 120/208Y volts as applicable to the particular terminal block wiring system and within 2 percent of the nameplate frequency as specified by the manufacturer. If the clothes washer has a dual voltage conversion capability, conduct test at the highest voltage specified by the manufacturer.
2.1.2
Supply voltage waveform.
For the combined low-power mode testing, maintain the electrical supply voltage waveform indicated in Section 4, Paragraph 4.3.2 of IEC 62301. If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the total harmonic content during the test measurement period, total harmonic content may be measured and recorded immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.2
Supply water.
Maintain the temperature of the hot water supply at the water inlets between 130 °F (54.4 °C) and 135 °F (57.2 °C), targeting the midpoint of the range. Maintain the temperature of the cold water supply at the water inlets between 55 °F (12.8 °C) and 60 °F (15.6 °C), targeting the midpoint of the range.
2.3
Water pressure.
Maintain the static water pressure at the hot and cold water inlet connection of the clothes washer at 35 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) ± 2.5 psig (241.3 kPa ± 17.2 kPa) when the water is flowing.
2.4
Test room temperature.
For all clothes washers, maintain the test room ambient air temperature at 75 ± 5 °F (23.9 ± 2.8 °C) for active mode testing and combined low-power mode testing. Do not use the test room ambient air temperature conditions specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.2 of IEC 62301 for combined low-power mode testing.
2.5
Instrumentation.
Perform all test measurements using the following instruments, as appropriate:
2.5.1
Weighing scales.
2.5.1.1
Weighing scale for test cloth.
The scale used for weighing test cloth must have a resolution of no larger than 0.2 oz (5.7 g) and a maximum error no greater than 0.3 percent of the measured value.
2.5.1.2
Weighing scale for clothes container capacity measurement.
The scale used for performing the clothes container capacity measurement must have a resolution no larger than 0.50 lbs (0.23 kg) and a maximum error no greater than 0.5 percent of the measured value.
2.5.2
Watt-hour meter.
The watt-hour meter used to measure electrical energy consumption must have a resolution no larger than 1 Wh (3.6 kJ) and a maximum error no greater than 2 percent of the measured value for any demand greater than 50 Wh (180.0 kJ).
2.5.3
Watt meter.
The watt meter used to measure combined low-power mode power consumption must comply with the requirements specified in Section 4, Paragraph 4.4 of IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). If the power measuring instrument used for testing is unable to measure and record the crest factor, power factor, or maximum current ratio during the test measurement period, the crest factor, power factor, and maximum current ratio may be measured and recorded immediately before and after the test measurement period.
2.5.4
Water and air temperature measuring devices.
The temperature devices used to measure water and air temperature must have an error no greater than ±1 °F (±0.6 °C) over the range being measured.
2.5.4.1 Non-reversible temperature indicator labels, adhered to the inside of the clothes container, may be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle, under the following conditions. The label must remain waterproof, intact, and adhered to the wash drum throughout an entire wash cycle; provide consistent maximum temperature readings; and provide repeatable temperature indications sufficient to demonstrate that a wash temperature of greater than 135 °F has been achieved. The label must have been verified to consistently indicate temperature measurements with an accuracy of ±1 °F if the label provides a temperature indicator at 135 °F. If the label does not provide a temperature indicator at 135 °F, the label must have been verified to consistently indicate temperature measurements with an accuracy of ±1 °F if the next-highest temperature indicator is greater
than 135 °F and less than 140 °F, or ±3 °F if the next-highest temperature indicator is 140 °F or greater. If the label does not provide a temperature indicator at 135 °F, failure to activate the next-highest temperature indicator does not necessarily indicate the lack of an extra-hot wash temperature. However, such a result would not be conclusive due to the lack of verification of the water temperature requirement, in which case an alternative method must be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle. If using a temperature indicator label to test a front-loading clothes washer, adhere the label along the interior surface of the clothes container drum, midway between the front and the back of the drum, adjacent to one of the baffles. If using a temperature indicator label to test a top-loading clothes washer, adhere the label along the interior surface of the clothes container drum, on the vertical portion of the sidewall, as close to the bottom of the container as possible.
2.5.4.2 Submersible temperature loggers placed inside the wash drum may be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle, under the following conditions. The submersible temperature logger must have a time resolution of at least 1 data point every 5 seconds and a temperature measurement accuracy of ±1 °F. Due to the potential for a waterproof capsule to provide a thermal insulating effect, failure to measure a temperature of 135 °F does not necessarily indicate the lack of an extra-hot wash temperature. However, such a result would not be conclusive due to the lack of verification of the water temperature requirement, in which case an alternative method must be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 °F has been achieved during the wash cycle.
2.5.5
Water meter.
A water meter must be installed in both the hot and cold water lines to measure water flow and/or water consumption. The water meters must have a resolution no larger than 0.1 gallons (0.4 liters) and a maximum error no greater than 2 percent for the water flow rates being measured. If the volume of hot water for any individual cycle within the energy test cycle is less than 0.1 gallons (0.4 liters), the hot water meter must have a resolution no larger than 0.01 gallons (0.04 liters).
2.5.6
Water pressure gauge.
A water pressure gauge must be installed in both the hot and cold water lines to measure water pressure. The water pressure gauges must have a resolution of 1 pound per square inch gauge (psig) (6.9 kPa) and a maximum error no greater than 5 percent of any measured value.
2.6
Bone dryer temperature.
The dryer used for bone drying must heat the test cloth load above 210 °F (99 °C).
2.7
Test cloths.
The test cloth material and dimensions must conform to the specifications in appendix J3 to this subpart. The energy test cloth and the energy stuffer cloths must be clean and must not be used for more than 60 test runs (after preconditioning as specified in section 5 of appendix J3 to this subpart). All energy test cloth must be permanently marked identifying the lot number of the material. Mixed lots of material must not be used for testing a clothes washer. The moisture absorption and retention must be evaluated for each new lot of test cloth using the standard extractor Remaining Moisture Content (RMC) procedure specified in appendix J3 to this subpart.
2.8
Test load sizes.
Use Table 5.1 of this appendix to determine the maximum, minimum, and, when required, average test load sizes based on the clothes container capacity as measured in section 3.1 of this appendix. Test loads must consist of energy test cloths and no more than five energy stuffer cloths per load to achieve the proper weight.
Use the test load sizes and corresponding water fill settings defined in Table 2.8 of this appendix when measuring water and energy consumption. Use only the maximum test load size when measuring RMC.
Table 2.8—Required Test Load Sizes and Water Fill Settings
Water fill control system type
Test load size
Water fill setting
Manual water fill control system
Max
Min
Max.
Min.
Automatic water fill control system
Max
Avg
Min
As determined by the clothes washer.
2.9
Use of test loads.
2.9.1 Test loads for energy and water consumption measurements must be bone dry prior to the first cycle of the test, and dried to a maximum of 104 percent of bone dry weight for subsequent testing.
2.9.2 Prepare the energy test cloths for loading by grasping them in the center, lifting, and shaking them to hang loosely, as illustrated in Figure 2.9.2 of this appendix.
ER05AU15.004
For all clothes washers, follow any manufacturer loading instructions provided to the user regarding the placement of clothing within the clothes container. In the absence of any manufacturer instructions regarding the placement of clothing within the clothes container, the following loading instructions apply.
2.9.2.1 To load the energy test cloths in a top-loading clothes washer, arrange the cloths circumferentially around the axis of rotation of the clothes container, using alternating lengthwise orientations for adjacent pieces of cloth. Complete each cloth layer across its horizontal plane within the clothes container before adding a new layer. Figure 2.9.2.1 of this appendix illustrates the correct loading technique for a vertical-axis clothes washer.
ER05AU15.005
2.9.2.2 To load the energy test cloths in a front-loading clothes washer, grasp each test cloth in the center as indicted in section 2.9.2 of this appendix, and then place each cloth into the clothes container prior to activating the clothes washer.
2.10
Clothes washer installation.
Install the clothes washer in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. For combined low-power mode testing, install the clothes washer in accordance with Section 5, Paragraph 5.2 of IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), disregarding the provisions regarding batteries and the determination, classification, and testing of relevant modes.
2.11
Clothes washer pre-conditioning.
2.11.1
Non-water-heating clothes washer.
If the clothes washer has not been filled with water in the preceding 96 hours, pre-condition it by running it through a cold rinse cycle and then draining it to ensure that the hose, pump, and sump are filled with water.
2.11.2
Water-heating clothes washer.
If the clothes washer has not been filled with water in the preceding 96 hours, or if it has not been in the test room at the specified ambient conditions for 8 hours, pre-condition it by running it through a cold rinse cycle and then draining it to ensure that the hose, pump, and sump are filled with water.
2.12
Determining the energy test cycle.
To determine the energy test cycle, evaluate the wash/rinse temperature selection flowcharts in the order in which they are presented in this section. Except for Cold Wash/Cold Rinse, use the maximum load size to evaluate each flowchart. The determination of the energy test cycle must take into consideration all cycle settings available to the end user, including any cycle selections or cycle modifications provided by the manufacturer via software or firmware updates to the product, for the basic model under test. The energy test cycle does not include any cycle that is recommended by the manufacturer exclusively for cleaning, deodorizing, or sanitizing the clothes washer.
ER01JN22.009
ER01JN22.010
ER01JN22.011
ER01JN22.012
ER01JN22.013

# 3. Test Measurements
3.1
Clothes container capacity.
Measure the entire volume that a clothes load could occupy within the clothes container during active mode washer operation according to the following procedures:
3.1.1 Place the clothes washer in such a position that the uppermost edge of the clothes container opening is leveled horizontally, so that the container will hold the maximum amount of water. For front-loading clothes washers, the door seal and shipping bolts or other forms of bracing hardware to support the wash drum during shipping must remain in place during the capacity measurement.
If the design of a front-loading clothes washer does not include shipping bolts or other forms of bracing hardware to support
the wash drum during shipping, a laboratory may support the wash drum by other means, including temporary bracing or support beams. Any temporary bracing or support beams must keep the wash drum in a fixed position, relative to the geometry of the door and door seal components, that is representative of the position of the wash drum during normal operation. The method used must avoid damage to the unit that would affect the results of the energy and water testing.
For a front-loading clothes washer that does not include shipping bolts or other forms of bracing hardware to support the wash drum during shipping, the laboratory must fully document the alternative method used to support the wash drum during capacity measurement, include such documentation in the final test report, and pursuant to § 429.71 of this chapter, the manufacturer must retain such documentation as part its test records.
3.1.2 Line the inside of the clothes container with a 2 mil thickness (0.051 mm) plastic bag. All clothes washer components that occupy space within the clothes container and that are recommended for use during a wash cycle must be in place and must be lined with a 2 mil thickness (0.051 mm) plastic bag to prevent water from entering any void space.
3.1.3 Record the total weight of the machine before adding water.
3.1.4 Fill the clothes container manually with either 60 °F ± 5 °F (15.6 °C ± 2.8 °C) or 100 °F ± 10 °F (37.8 °C ± 5.5 °C) water, with the door open. For a top-loading vertical-axis clothes washer, fill the clothes container to the uppermost edge of the rotating portion, including any balance ring. Figure 3.1.4.1 of this appendix illustrates the maximum fill level for top-loading clothes washers.
ER05AU15.011
For a front-loading horizontal-axis clothes washer, fill the clothes container to the highest point of contact between the door and the door gasket. If any portion of the door or gasket would occupy the measured volume space when the door is closed, exclude from the measurement the volume that the door or gasket portion would occupy. For a front-loading horizontal-axis clothes washer with a concave door shape, include any additional volume above the plane defined by the highest point of contact between the door and the door gasket, if that area can be occupied by clothing during washer operation. For a top-loading horizontal-axis clothes washer, include any additional volume above the plane of the door hinge that clothing could occupy during washer operation. Figure 3.1.4.2 of this appendix illustrates the maximum fill volumes for all horizontal-axis clothes washer types.
ER05AU15.012
For all clothes washers, exclude any volume that cannot be occupied by the clothing load during operation.
3.1.5 Measure and record the weight of water, W, in pounds.
3.1.6 Calculate the clothes container capacity as follows:
C = W/d
where:
C = Capacity in cubic feet (liters).
W = Mass of water in pounds (kilograms).
d = Density of water (62.0 lbs/ft
3
for 100 °F (993 kg/m
3
for 37.8 °C) or 62.3 lbs/ft
3
for 60 °F (998 kg/m
3
for 15.6 °C)).
3.1.7 Calculate the clothes container capacity, C, to the nearest 0.01 cubic foot for the purpose of determining test load sizes per Table 5.1 of this appendix and for all subsequent calculations that include the clothes container capacity.
3.2
Procedure for measuring water and energy consumption values on all automatic and semi-automatic washers.
3.2.1 Perform all energy consumption tests under the energy test cycle.
3.2.2 Perform the test sections listed in Table 3.2.2 in accordance with the wash/rinse temperature selections available in the energy test cycle.
Table 3.2.2—Test Section Reference
Wash/rinse temperature
selections available in the
energy test cycle
Corresponding test section
reference
Extra-Hot/Cold
3.3
Hot/Cold
3.4
Warm/Cold
3.5
Warm/Warm
3.6
Cold/Cold
3.7
Test Sections Applicable to all Clothes Washers
Remaining Moisture Content
3.8
Combined Low-Power Mode Power
3.9
3.2.3
Hot and cold water faucets.
3.2.3.1 For automatic clothes washers, open both the hot and cold water faucets.
3.2.3.2 For semi-automatic washers:
(1) For hot inlet water temperature, open the hot water faucet completely and close the cold water faucet;
(2) For warm inlet water temperature, open both hot and cold water faucets completely;
(3) For cold inlet water temperature, close the hot water faucet and open the cold water faucet completely.
3.2.4
Wash/rinse temperature selection.
Set the wash/rinse temperature selection control to obtain the desired wash/rinse temperature selection within the energy test cycle.
3.2.5
Wash time setting.
3.2.5.1 If the cycle under test offers a range of wash time settings, the wash time setting shall be the higher of either the minimum or 70 percent of the maximum wash time available for the wash cycle under test, regardless of the labeling of suggested dial locations. If 70 percent of the maximum wash time is not available on a dial with a discrete number of wash time settings, choose the next-highest setting greater than 70 percent.
3.2.5.2 If the clothes washer is equipped with an electromechanical dial or timer controlling wash time that rotates in both directions, reset the dial to the minimum wash time and then turn it in the direction of increasing wash time to reach the appropriate setting. If the appropriate setting is passed, return the dial to the minimum wash time and then turn in the direction of increasing wash time until the appropriate setting is reached.
3.2.6
Water fill levels.
3.2.6.1
Clothes washers with manual water fill control system.
Set the water fill selector to the maximum water level available for the wash cycle under test for the maximum test load size and the minimum water level available for the wash cycle under test for the minimum test load size.
3.2.6.2
Clothes washers with automatic water fill control system.
3.2.6.2.1
Not user adjustable.
The maximum, minimum, and average water levels as described in the following sections refer to the amount of water fill that is automatically selected by the control system when the respective test loads are used.
3.2.6.2.2
User-adjustable adaptive.
Conduct four tests on clothes washers with user-adjustable adaptive water fill controls. Conduct the first test using the maximum test load and with the adaptive water fill control system set in the setting that uses the most water. Conduct the second test using the minimum test load and with the adaptive water fill control system set in the setting that uses the least water. Conduct the third test using the average test load and with the adaptive water fill control system set in the setting that uses the most water. Conduct the fourth test using the average test load and with the adaptive water fill control system set in the setting that uses the least water. Average the results of the third and fourth tests to obtain the energy and water consumption values for the average test load size.
3.2.6.3
Clothes washers with automatic water fill control system and alternate manual water fill control system.
If a clothes washer with an automatic water fill control system allows user selection of manual controls as an alternative, test both manual and automatic modes and, for each mode, calculate the energy consumption (HE
T
, ME
T
, and D
E
) and water consumption (Q
T
) values as set forth in section 4 of this appendix. Then, calculate the average of the two values (one from each mode, automatic and manual) for each variable (HE
T
, ME
T
, D
E
, and Q
T
) and use the average value for each variable in the final calculations in section 4 of this appendix.
3.2.7
Manufacturer default settings.
For clothes washers with electronic control systems, use the manufacturer default settings for any cycle selections, except for (1) the temperature selection, (2) the wash water fill levels, (3) if necessary, the spin speeds on wash cycles used to determine remaining moisture content, or (4) network settings. If the clothes washer has network capabilities, the network settings must be disabled throughout testing if such settings can be disabled by the end-user and the product's user manual provides instructions on how to do so. For all other cycle selections, the manufacturer default settings must be used for wash conditions such as agitation/tumble operation, soil level, spin speed on wash cycles used to determine energy and water consumption, wash times, rinse times, optional rinse settings, water heating time for water heating clothes washers, and all other wash parameters or optional features applicable to that wash cycle. Any optional wash cycle feature or setting (other than wash/rinse temperature, water fill level selection, spin speed on wash cycles used to determine remaining moisture content, or network settings on clothes washers with network capabilities) that is activated by default on the wash cycle under test must be included for testing unless the manufacturer instructions recommend not selecting this option, or recommend selecting a different option, for washing normally soiled cotton clothing. For clothes washers with control panels containing mechanical switches or dials, any optional settings, except for (1) the temperature selection, (2) the wash water fill levels, or (3) if necessary, the spin speeds on wash cycles used to determine remaining moisture content, must be in the position recommended by the manufacturer for washing normally soiled cotton clothing. If the manufacturer instructions do not recommend a particular switch or dial position to be used for washing normally soiled cotton clothing, the setting switch or dial must remain in its as-shipped position.
3.2.8 For each wash cycle tested, include the entire active washing mode and exclude any delay start or cycle finished modes.
3.2.9
Anomalous Test Cycles.
If during a wash cycle the clothes washer: (a) Signals to the user by means of a visual or audio alert that an out-of-balance condition has been detected; or (b) terminates prematurely and thus does not include the agitation/tumble operation, spin speed(s), wash times, and rinse times applicable to the wash cycle under test, discard the test data and repeat the wash cycle. Document in the test report the rejection of data from any wash cycle during testing and the reason for the rejection.
3.3
Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse.
Measure the water and electrical energy consumption for each water fill level and test load size as specified in sections 3.3.1 through 3.3.3 of this appendix for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse as defined within the energy test cycle.
3.3.1
Maximum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hm
X
), cold water consumption (Cm
X
), and electrical energy consumption (Em
X
) for an Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the maximum water fill level. Use the maximum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.3.2
Minimum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hm
n
), cold water consumption (Cm
n
), and electrical energy consumption (Em
n
) for an Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the minimum water fill level. Use the minimum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.3.3
Average test load and water fill.
For a clothes washer with an automatic water fill control system, measure the values for hot
water consumption (Hm
a
), cold water consumption (Cm
a
), and electrical energy consumption (Em
a
) for an Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle. Use the average test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.4
Hot Wash/Cold Rinse.
Measure the water and electrical energy consumption for each water fill level and test load size as specified in sections 3.4.1 through 3.4.3 of this appendix for the Hot Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selection, as defined within the energy test cycle.
3.4.1
Maximum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hh
X
), cold water consumption (Ch
X
), and electrical energy consumption (Eh
X
) for a Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the maximum water fill level. Use the maximum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.4.2
Minimum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hh
n
), cold water consumption (Ch
n
), and electrical energy consumption (Eh
n
) for a Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the minimum water fill level. Use the minimum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.4.3
Average test load and water fill.
For a clothes washer with an automatic water fill control system, measure the values for hot water consumption (Hh
a
), cold water consumption (Ch
a
), and electrical energy consumption (Eh
a
) for a Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle. Use the average test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.5
Warm Wash/Cold Rinse.
Measure the water and electrical energy consumption for each water fill level and test load size as specified in sections 3.5.1 through 3.5.3 of this appendix for the applicable Warm Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selection(s), as defined within the energy test cycle.
For a clothes washer with fewer than four discrete Warm Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selections, test all Warm Wash/Cold Rinse selections. For a clothes washer that offers four or more Warm Wash/Cold Rinse selections, test at all discrete selections, or test at the 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent positions of the temperature selection device between the hottest hot (≤135 °F (57.2 °C)) wash and the coldest cold wash. If a selection is not available at the 25, 50 or 75 percent position, in place of each such unavailable selection, use the next warmer setting. For each reportable value to be used for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selection, calculate the average of all Warm Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selections tested pursuant to this section.
3.5.1
Maximum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hw
X
), cold water consumption (Cw
X
), and electrical energy consumption (Ew
X
) for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the maximum water fill level. Use the maximum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.5.2
Minimum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hw
n
), cold water consumption (Cw
n
), and electrical energy consumption (Ew
n
) for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the minimum water fill level. Use the minimum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.5.3
Average test load and water fill.
For a clothes washer with an automatic water fill control system, measure the values for hot water consumption (Hw
a
), cold water consumption (Cw
a
), and electrical energy consumption (Ew
a
) for a Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle. Use the average test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.6
Warm Wash/Warm Rinse.
Measure the water and electrical energy consumption for each water fill level and/or test load size as specified in sections 3.6.1 through 3.6.3 of this appendix for the applicable Warm Wash/Warm Rinse temperature selection(s), as defined within the energy test cycle. For a clothes washer with fewer than four discrete Warm Wash/Warm Rinse temperature selections, test all Warm Wash/Warm Rinse selections. For a clothes washer that offers four or more Warm Wash/Warm Rinse selections, test at all discrete selections, or test at 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent positions of the temperature selection device between the hottest hot (≤ 135 °F (57.2 °C)) wash and the coldest cold wash. If a selection is not available at the 25, 50 or 75 percent position, in place of each such unavailable selection use the next warmer setting. For each reportable value to be used for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse temperature selection, calculate the average of all Warm Wash/Warm Rinse temperature selections tested pursuant to this section.
3.6.1
Maximum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hww
X
), cold water consumption (Cww
X
), and electrical energy consumption (Eww
X
) for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the maximum water fill level. Use the maximum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.6.2
Minimum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hww
n
), cold water consumption (Cww
n
), and electrical energy consumption (Eww
n
) for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the minimum water fill level. Use the minimum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.6.3
Average test load and water fill.
For a clothes washer with an automatic water fill control system, measure the values for hot water consumption (Hww
a
), cold water consumption (Cww
a
), and electrical energy consumption (Eww
a
) for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle. Use the average test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.7
Cold Wash/Cold Rinse.
Measure the water and electrical energy consumption for each water fill level and test load size as specified in sections 3.7.1 through 3.7.3 of this appendix for the applicable Cold Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selection, as defined within the energy test cycle.
3.7.1
Maximum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hc
X
), cold water consumption (Cc
X
), and electrical energy consumption (Ec
X
) for a Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the maximum water fill level. Use the maximum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.7.2
Minimum test load and water fill.
Measure the values for hot water consumption (Hc
n
), cold water consumption (Cc
n
), and electrical energy consumption (Ec
n
) for a Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, with the controls set for the minimum water fill level. Use the minimum test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.7.3
Average test load and water fill.
For a clothes washer with an automatic water fill control system, measure the values for hot water consumption (Hc
a
), cold water consumption (Cc
a
), and electrical energy consumption (Ec
a
) for a Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle. Use the average test load size as specified in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
3.8
Remaining moisture content (RMC).
3.8.1 The wash temperature must be the same as the rinse temperature for all testing. Use the maximum test load as defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix for testing.
3.8.2
Clothes washers with cold rinse only.
3.8.2.1 Record the actual “bone dry” weight of the test load (WI
X
), then place the test load in the clothes washer.
3.8.2.2 Set the water level controls to maximum fill.
3.8.2.3 Run the Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle.
3.8.2.4 Record the weight of the test load immediately after completion of the wash cycle (WC
X
).
3.8.2.5 Calculate the remaining moisture content of the maximum test load, RMC
X
, defined as:
RMC
X
= (WC
X
− WI
X
)/WI
X
3.8.2.6 Apply the RMC correction curve described in section 9 of appendix J3 to this subpart to calculate the corrected remaining moisture content, RMC
corr
, expressed as a percentage as follows:
RMC
corr
= (A × RMC
X
+ B) × 100%
where:
A and B are the coefficients of the RMC correction curve as defined in section 8.7 of appendix J3 to this subpart.
RMC
X
= As defined in section 3.8.2.5 of this appendix.
3.8.2.7 Use RMC
corr
as the final corrected RMC in section 4.3 of this appendix.
3.8.3
Clothes washers with both cold and warm rinse options.
3.8.3.1 Complete sections 3.8.2.1 through 3.8.2.4 of this appendix for a Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle. Calculate the remaining moisture content of the maximum test load for Cold Wash/Cold Rinse, RMC
COLD
, defined as:
RMC
COLD
= (WC
X
− WI
X
)/WI
X
3.8.3.2 Apply the RMC correction curve described in section 9 of appendix J3 to this subpart to calculate the corrected remaining moisture content for Cold Wash/Cold Rinse, RMC
COLD,corr
, expressed as a percentage, as follows:
RMC
COLD,corr
= (A × RMC
COLD
+ B) × 100%
where:
A and B are the coefficients of the RMC correction curve as defined in section 8.7 of appendix J3 to this subpart.
RMC
COLD
= As defined in section 3.8.3.1 of this appendix.
3.8.3.3 Complete sections 3.8.2.1 through 3.8.2.4 of this appendix using a Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle instead. Calculate the remaining moisture content of the maximum test load for Warm Wash/Warm Rinse, RMC
WARM
, defined as:
RMC
WARM
= (WC
X
−WI
X
)/WI
X
3.8.3.4 Apply the RMC correction curve described in section 9 of appendix J3 to this subpart to calculate the corrected remaining moisture content for Warm Wash/Warm Rinse, RMC
WARM,corr
, expressed as a percentage, as follows:
RMC
WARM,corr
= (A × RMC
WARM
+ B) × 100%
where:
A and B are the coefficients of the RMC correction curve as defined in section 8.7 of appendix J3 to this subpart.
RMC
WARM
= As defined in section 3.8.3.3 of this appendix.
3.8.3.5 Calculate the corrected remaining moisture content of the maximum test load, RMC
corr
, expressed as a percentage as follows:
RMC
corr
= RMC
COLD,corr
× (1 − TUF
ww
) + RMC
WARM,corr
× (TUF
ww
)
where:
RMC
COLD,corr
= As defined in section 3.8.3.2 of this Appendix.
RMC
WARM,corr
= As defined in section 3.8.3.4 of this Appendix.
TUF
ww
is the temperature use factor for Warm Wash/Warm Rinse as defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
3.8.3.6 Use RMC
corr
as calculated in section 3.8.3.5 as the final corrected RMC used in section 4.3 of this appendix.
3.8.4
Clothes washers that have options such as multiple selections of spin speeds or spin times that result in different RMC values, and that are available within the energy test cycle.
3.8.4.1 Complete sections 3.8.2 or 3.8.3 of this appendix, as applicable, using the maximum and minimum extremes of the available spin options, excluding any “no spin” (zero spin speed) settings. Combine the calculated values RMC
corr,max extraction
and RMC
corr,min extraction
at the maximum and minimum settings, respectively, as follows:
RMC
corr
= 0.75 × RMC
corr,max extraction
+ 0.25 × RMC
corr,min extraction
where:
RMC
corr, max extraction
is the corrected remaining moisture content using the maximum spin setting, calculated according to section 3.8.2 or 3.8.3 of this appendix, as applicable.
RMC
corr, min extraction
is the corrected remaining moisture content using the minimum spin setting, calculated according to section 3.8.2 or 3.8.3 of this appendix, as applicable.
3.8.4.2 Use RMC
corr
as calculated in section 3.8.4.1 as the final corrected RMC used in section 4.3 of this appendix.
3.8.5 The procedure for calculating the corrected RMC as described in section 3.8.2, 3.8.3, or 3.8.4 of this appendix may be replicated twice in its entirety, for a total of three independent corrected RMC measurements. If three replications of the RMC measurement are performed, use the average of the three corrected RMC measurements as the final corrected RMC in section 4.3 of this appendix.
3.9
Combined low-power mode power.
Connect the clothes washer to a watt meter as specified in section 2.5.3 of this appendix. Establish the testing conditions set forth in sections 2.1, 2.4, and 2.10 of this appendix.
3.9.1 Perform combined low-power mode testing after completion of an active mode wash cycle included as part of the energy test cycle; after removing the test load; without changing the control panel settings used for the active mode wash cycle; with the door closed; and without disconnecting the electrical energy supply to the clothes washer between completion of the active mode wash cycle and the start of combined low-power mode testing.
3.9.2 For a clothes washer that takes some time to automatically enter a stable inactive mode or off mode state from a higher power state as discussed in Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, note 1 of IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), allow sufficient time for the clothes washer to automatically reach the default inactive/off mode state before proceeding with the test measurement.
3.9.3 Once the stable inactive/off mode state has been reached, measure and record the default inactive/off mode power, P
default
, in watts, following the test procedure for the sampling method specified in Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 of IEC 62301.
3.9.4 For a clothes washer with a switch, dial, or button that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode state than the default inactive/off mode state measured in section 3.9.3 of this appendix, after performing the measurement in section 3.9.3, activate the switch, dial, or button to the position resulting in the lowest power consumption and repeat the measurement procedure described in section 3.9.3. Measure and record the lowest-power inactive/off mode power, P
lowest
, in Watts.
3.10
Energy consumption for the purpose of determining the cycle selection(s) to be included in the energy test cycle.
This section is implemented only in cases where the energy test cycle flowcharts in section 2.12 require the determination of the wash/rinse temperature selection with the highest energy consumption.
3.10.1 For the wash/rinse temperature selection being considered under this section, establish the testing conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix. Select the applicable cycle selection and wash/rinse temperature selection. For all wash/rinse temperature selections, the manufacturer default settings shall be used as described in section 3.2.7 of this appendix.
3.10.2 Use the clothes washer's maximum test load size, determined from Table 5.1 of this appendix, for testing under this section.
3.10.3 For clothes washers with a manual fill control system, user-adjustable automatic water fill control system, or automatic water fill control system with alternate manual water fill control system, use the water fill selector setting resulting in the maximum water level available for each cycle selection for testing under this section.
3.10.4 Each wash cycle tested under this section shall include the entire active washing mode and exclude any delay start or cycle finished modes.
3.10.5 Measure each wash cycle's electrical energy consumption (E
X
) and hot water consumption (H
X
). Calculate the total energy consumption for each cycle selection (E
TX
), as follows:
E
TX
= E
X
+ (H
X
× T × K)
where:
E
X
is the electrical energy consumption, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle.
H
X
is the hot water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle.
T = nominal temperature rise = 75 °F (41.7 °C).
K = Water specific heat in kilowatt-hours per gallon per degree F = 0.00240 kWh/gal - °F (0.00114 kWh/L- °C).

# 4. Calculation of Derived Results From Test Measurements
4.1
Hot water and machine electrical energy consumption of clothes washers.
4.1.1
Per-cycle temperature-weighted hot water consumption for all maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels tested.
Calculate the per-cycle temperature-weighted hot water consumption for the maximum water fill level, Vh
X
, the average water fill level, Vh
a
, and the minimum water fill level, Vh
n
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
(a) Vh
X
= [Hm
X
× TUF
m
] + [Hh
X
× TUF
h
] + [Hw
X
× TUF
w
] + [Hww
X
× TUF
ww
] + [Hc
X
× TUF
c
]
(b) Vh
a
= [Hm
a
× TUF
m
] + [Hh
a
× TUF
h
] + [Hw
a
× TUF
w
] + [Hww
a
× TUF
ww
] + [Hc
a
× TUF
c
]
(c) Vh
n
= [Hm
n
× TUF
m
] + [Hh
n
× TUF
h
] + [Hw
n
× TUF
w
] + [Hww
n
× TUF
ww
] + [Hc
n
× TUF
c
]
where:
Hm
X
, Hm
a
, and Hm
n
, are reported hot water consumption values, in gallons per-cycle (or liters per cycle), at maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels, respectively, for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.3.1 through 3.3.3 of this appendix.
Hh
X
, Hh
a
, and Hh
n
, are reported hot water consumption values, in gallons per-cycle (or liters per cycle), at maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels, respectively, for the Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.4.1 through 3.4.3 of this appendix.
Hw
X
, Hw
a
, and Hw
n
, are reported hot water consumption values, in gallons per-cycle (or liters per cycle), at maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels, respectively, for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.5.1 through 3.5.3 of this appendix.
Hww
X
, Hww
a
, and Hww
n
, are reported hot water consumption values, in gallons per-cycle (or liters per cycle), at maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels, respectively, for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.6.1 through 3.6.3 of this appendix.
Hc
X
, Hc
a
, and Hc
n
, are reported hot water consumption values, in gallons per-cycle (or liters per cycle), at maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels, respectively, for the Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.7.1 through 3.7.3 of this appendix.
TUF
m
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are temperature use factors for Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, Warm Wash/Cold Rinse, Warm Wash/Warm Rinse, and Cold Wash/Cold Rinse temperature selections, respectively, as defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
Table 4.1.1—Temperature Use Factors
Wash/Rinse Temperature Selections Available in the Energy Test Cycle
Clothes washers with cold rinse only
C/C
H/C
C/C
H/C
W/C
C/C
XH/C
H/C
C/C
XH/C
H/C
W/C
C/C
Clothes washers with both cold and warm rinse
H/C
W/C
W/W
C/C
XH/C
H/C
W/W
C/C
XH/C
H/C
W/C
W/W
C/C
TUF
m
(Extra-Hot/Cold)
0.14
0.05
0.14
0.05
TUF
h
(Hot/Cold)
0.63
0.14
* 0.49
0.09
0.14
* 0.22
0.09
TUF
w
(Warm/Cold)
0.49
0.49
0.22
0.22
TUF
ww
(Warm/Warm)
0.27
0.27
0.27
TUF
c
(Cold/Cold)
1.00
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
0.37
* On clothes washers with only two wash temperature selections ≤135 °F, the higher of the two wash temperatures is classified as a Hot Wash/Cold Rinse, in accordance with the wash/rinse temperature definitions within the energy test cycle.
4.1.2
Total per-cycle hot water energy consumption for all maximum, average, and minimum water fill levels tested.
Calculate the total per-cycle hot water energy consumption for the maximum water fill level, HE
max
, the average water fill level, HE
avg
, and the minimum water fill level, HE
min
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
(a) HE
max
= [Vh
X
× T × K] = Total energy when a maximum load is tested.
(b) HE
avg
= [Vh
a
× T × K] = Total energy when an average load is tested.
(c) HE
min
= [Vh
n
× T × K] = Total energy when a minimum load is tested.
where:
Vh
X
, Vh
a
, and Vh
n
are defined in section 4.1.1 of this appendix.
T = Temperature rise = 75 °F (41.7 °C).
K = Water specific heat in kilowatt-hours per gallon per degree F = 0.00240 kWh/gal- °F (0.00114 kWh/L- °C).
4.1.3
Total weighted per-cycle hot water energy consumption.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle hot water energy consumption, HE
T
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
HE
T
= [HE
max
× F
max
] + [HE
avg
× F
avg
] + HE
min
× F
min
]
where:
HE
max
, HE
avg
, and HE
min
are defined in section 4.1.2 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, and F
min
are the load usage factors for the maximum, average, and minimum test loads based on the size and type of
the control system on the washer being tested, as defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
Table 4.1.3—Load Usage Factors
Load usage factor
Water fill control system
Manual
Automatic
F
max
=
0.72
0.12
F
avg
=
0.74
F
min
=
0.28
0.14
4.1.4
Total per-cycle hot water energy consumption using gas-heated or oil-heated water, for product labeling requirements.
Calculate for the energy test cycle the per-cycle hot water consumption, HE
TG
, using gas-heated or oil-heated water, expressed in Btu per cycle (or megajoules per cycle) and defined as:
HE
TG
= HE
T
× 1/e × 3412 Btu/kWh or HE
TG
= HE
T
× 1/e × 3.6 MJ/kWh
where:
e = Nominal gas or oil water heater efficiency = 0.75.
HE
T
= As defined in section 4.1.3 of this Appendix.
4.1.5
Per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption for all maximum, average, and minimum test load sizes.
Calculate the total per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption for the maximum water fill level, ME
max
, the average water fill level, ME
avg
, and the minimum water fill level, ME
min
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
(a) ME
max
= [Em
X
× TUF
m
] + [Eh
X
× TUF
h
] + [Ew
X
× TUF
w
] + [Eww
X
× TUF
ww
] + [Ec
X
× TUF
c
]
(b) ME
avg
= [Em
a
× TUF
m
] + [Eh
a
× TUF
h
] + [Ew
a
× TUF
w
] + [Eww
a
× TUF
ww
] + [Ec
a
× TUF
c
]
(c) ME
min
= [Em
n
× TUF
m
] + [Eh
n
× TUF
h
] + [Ew
n
× TUF
w
] + [Eww
n
× TUF
ww
] + [Ec
n
× TUF
c
]
where:
Em
X
, Em
a
, and Em
n
, are reported electrical energy consumption values, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, at maximum, average, and minimum test loads, respectively, for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.3.1 through 3.3.3 of this appendix.
Eh
X
, Eh
a
, and Eh
n
, are reported electrical energy consumption values, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, at maximum, average, and minimum test loads, respectively, for the Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.4.1 through 3.4.3 of this appendix.
Ew
X
, Ew
a
, and Ew
n
, are reported electrical energy consumption values, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, at maximum, average, and minimum test loads, respectively, for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.5.1 through 3.5.3 of this appendix.
Eww
X
, Eww
a
, and Eww
n
, are reported electrical energy consumption values, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, at maximum, average, and minimum test loads, respectively, for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.6.1 through 3.6.3 of this appendix.
Ec
X
, Ec
a
, and Ec
n
, are reported electrical energy consumption values, in kilowatt-hours per cycle, at maximum, average, and minimum test loads, respectively, for the Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, as measured in sections 3.7.1 through 3.7.3 of this appendix.
TUF
m
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
4.1.6
Total weighted per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle machine electrical energy consumption, ME
T
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
ME
T
= [ME
max
× F
max
] + [ME
avg
× F
avg
] + [ME
min
× F
min
]
where:
ME
max
, ME
avg
, and ME
min
are defined in section 4.1.5 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, and F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.1.7
Total per-cycle energy consumption when electrically heated water is used.
Calculate the total per-cycle energy consumption, E
TE
, using electrically heated water, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
TE
= H
ET
+ M
ET
where:
M
ET
= As defined in section 4.1.6 of this appendix.
H
ET
= As defined in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2 Water consumption of clothes washers.
4.2.1
Per-cycle water consumption for Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the maximum, average, and minimum total water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle), for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle and defined as:
Qm
max
= [Hm
X
+ Cm
X
]
Qm
avg
= [Hm
a
+ Cm
a
]
Qm
min
= [Hm
n
+ Cm
n
]
where:
Hm
X
, Cm
X
, Hm
a
, Cm
a
, Hm
n
, and Cm
n
are defined in section 3.3 of this appendix.
4.2.2
Per-cycle water consumption for Hot Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the maximum, average, and minimum total water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle), for the Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle and defined as:
Qh
max
= [Hh
X
+ Ch
X
]
Qh
avg
= [Hh
a
+ Ch
a
]
Qh
min
= [Hh
n
+ Ch
n
]
where:
Hh
X
, Ch
X
, Hh
a
, Ch
a
, Hh
n
, and Ch
n
are defined in section 3.4 of this appendix.
4.2.3
Per-cycle water consumption for Warm Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the maximum, average, and minimum total water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle), for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle and defined as:
Qw
max
= [Hw
X
+ Cw
X
]
Qw
avg
= [Hw
a
+ Cw
a
]
Qw
min
= [Hw
n
+ Cw
n
]
where:
Hw
X
, Cw
X
, Hw
a
, Cw
a
, Hw
n
, and Cw
n
are defined in section 3.5 of this appendix.
4.2.4
Per-cycle water consumption for Warm Wash/Warm Rinse.
Calculate the maximum, average, and minimum total water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle), for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle and defined as:
Qww
max
= [Hww
X
+ Cww
X
]
Qww
avg
= [Hww
a
+ Cww
a
]
Qww
min
= [Hww
n
+ Cww
n
]
where:
Hww
X
, Cww
X
, Hww
a
, Cww
a
, Hww
n
, and Cww
n
are defined in section 3.6 of this appendix.
4.2.5
Per-cycle water consumption for Cold Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the maximum, average, and minimum total water consumption, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle), for the Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle and defined as:
Qc
max
= [Hc
X
+ Cc
X
]
Qc
avg
= [Hc
a
+ Cc
a
]
Qc
min
= [Hc
n
+ Cc
n
]
where:
Hc
X
, Cc
X
, Hc
a
, Cc
a
, Hc
n
, and Cc
n
are defined in section 3.7 of this appendix.
4.2.6
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption for Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for the Extra-Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qm
T
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Qm
T
= [Qm
max
× F
max
] + [Qm
avg
× F
avg
] + [Qm
min
× F
min
]
where:
Qm
max
, Qm
avg
, Qm
min
are defined in section 4.2.1 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2.7
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption for Hot Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for the Hot Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qh
T
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Qh
T
= [Qh
max
× F
max
] + [Qh
avg
× F
avg
] + [Qh
min
× F
min
]
where:
Qh
max
, Qh
avg
, Qh
min
are defined in section 4.2.2 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2.8
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption for Warm Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for the Warm Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qw
T
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Qw
T
= [Qw
max
× F
max
] + [Qw
avg
× F
avg
] + [Qw
min
× F
min
]
where:
Qw
max
, Qw
avg
, Qw
min
are defined in section 4.2.3 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2.9
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption for Warm Wash/Warm Rinse.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for the Warm Wash/Warm Rinse cycle, Qww
T
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Qww
T
= [Qww
max
× F
max
] + [Qww
avg
× F
avg
] + [Qww
min
× F
min
]
where:
Qww
max
, Qww
avg
, Qww
min
are defined in section 4.2.4 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2.10
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption for Cold Wash/Cold Rinse.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for the Cold Wash/Cold Rinse cycle, Qc
T
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Qc
T
= [Qc
max
× F
max
] + [Qc
avg
× F
avg
] + [Qc
min
× F
min
]
where:
Qc
max
, Qc
avg
, Qc
min
are defined in section 4.2.5 of this appendix.
F
max
, F
avg
, F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
4.2.11
Total weighted per-cycle water consumption for all wash cycles.
Calculate the total weighted per-cycle water consumption for all wash cycles, Q
T
, expressed in gallons per cycle (or liters per cycle) and defined as:
Q
T
= [Qm
T
× TUF
m
] + [Qh
T
× TUF
h
] + [Qw
T
× TUF
w
] + [Qww
T
× TUF
ww
] + [Qc
T
× TUF
c
]
where:
Qm
T
, Qh
T
, Qw
T
, Qww
T
, and Qc
T
are defined in sections 4.2.6 through 4.2.10 of this appendix.
TUF
m
, TUF
h
, TUF
w
, TUF
ww
, and TUF
c
are defined in Table 4.1.1 of this appendix.
4.2.12
Integrated water factor.
Calculate the integrated water factor, IWF, expressed in gallons per cycle per cubic foot (or liters per cycle per liter), as:
IWF = Q
T
/C
where:
Q
T
= As defined in section 4.2.11 of this appendix.
C = As defined in section 3.1.7 of this appendix.
4.3
Per-cycle energy consumption for removal of moisture from test load.
Calculate the per-cycle energy required to remove the remaining moisture of the test load, D
E
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
D
E
= [(F
max
× Maximum test load weight) + (F
avg
× Average test load weight) + (F
min
× Minimum test load weight)] × (RMC
corr
- 4%) × (DEF) × (DUF)
where:
F
max
, F
avg
, and F
min
are defined in Table 4.1.3 of this appendix.
Maximum, average, and minimum test load weights are defined in Table 5.1 of this appendix.
RMC
corr
= As defined in section 3.8.2.6, 3.8.3.5, or 3.8.4.1 of this Appendix.
DEF = Nominal energy required for a clothes dryer to remove moisture from clothes = 0.5 kWh/lb (1.1 kWh/kg).
DUF = Dryer usage factor, percentage of washer loads dried in a clothes dryer = 0.91.
4.4
Per-cycle combined low-power mode energy consumption.
Calculate the per-cycle combined low-power mode energy consumption, E
TLP
, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle and defined as:
E
TLP
= [(P
default
× S
default
) + (P
lowest
× S
lowest
)] × K
p
/295
where:
P
default
= Default inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.9.3 of this appendix.
P
lowest
= Lowest-power inactive/off mode power, in watts, as measured in section 3.9.4 of this appendix for clothes washers with a switch, dial, or button that can be optionally selected by the end user to achieve a lower-power inactive/off mode than the default inactive/off mode; otherwise, P
lowest
=0.
S
default
= Annual hours in default inactive/off mode, defined as 8,465 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 4,232.5.
S
lowest
= Annual hours in lowest-power inactive/off mode, defined as 0 if no optional lowest-power inactive/off mode is available; otherwise 4,232.5.
K
p
= Conversion factor of watt-hours to kilowatt-hours = 0.001.
295 = Representative average number of clothes washer cycles in a year.
8,465 = Combined annual hours for inactive and off mode.
4,232.5 = One-half of the combined annual hours for inactive and off mode.
4.5
Modified energy factor.
Calculate the modified energy factor, MEF
J2
, expressed in cubic feet per kilowatt-hour per cycle (or liters per kilowatt-hour per cycle) and defined as:
MEF
J2
= C/(E
TE
+ D
E
)
where:
C = As defined in section 3.1.7 of this appendix.
E
TE
= As defined in section 4.1.7 of this appendix.
D
E
= As defined in section 4.3 of this appendix.
4.6
Integrated modified energy factor.
Calculate the integrated modified energy factor, IMEF, expressed in cubic feet per kilowatt-hour per cycle (or liters per kilowatt-hour per cycle) and defined as:
IMEF = C/(E
TE
+ D
E
+ E
TLP
)
where:
C = As defined in section 3.1.7 of this appendix.
E
TE
= As defined in section 4.1.7 of this appendix.
D
E
= As defined in section 4.3 of this appendix.
E
TLP
= As defined in section 4.4 of this appendix.

# 5. Test Loads
Table 5.1—Test Load Sizes
Container volume
cu. ft.
≥
liter
≥
Minimum load
lb
kg
Maximum load
lb
kg
Average load
lb
kg
0.00-0.80
0.00-22.7
3.00
1.36
3.00
1.36
3.00
1.36
0.80-0.90
22.7-25.5
3.00
1.36
3.50
1.59
3.25
1.47
0.90-1.00
25.5-28.3
3.00
1.36
3.90
1.77
3.45
1.56
1.00-1.10
28.3-31.1
3.00
1.36
4.30
1.95
3.65
1.66
1.10-1.20
31.1-34.0
3.00
1.36
4.70
2.13
3.85
1.75
1.20-1.30
34.0-36.8
3.00
1.36
5.10
2.31
4.05
1.84
1.30-1.40
36.8-39.6
3.00
1.36
5.50
2.49
4.25
1.93
1.40-1.50
39.6-42.5
3.00
1.36
5.90
2.68
4.45
2.02
1.50-1.60
42.5-45.3
3.00
1.36
6.40
2.90
4.70
2.13
1.60-1.70
45.3-48.1
3.00
1.36
6.80
3.08
4.90
2.22
1.70-1.80
48.1-51.0
3.00
1.36
7.20
3.27
5.10
2.31
1.80-1.90
51.0-53.8
3.00
1.36
7.60
3.45
5.30
2.40
1.90-2.00
53.8-56.6
3.00
1.36
8.00
3.63
5.50
2.49
2.00-2.10
56.6-59.5
3.00
1.36
8.40
3.81
5.70
2.59
2.10-2.20
59.5-62.3
3.00
1.36
8.80
3.99
5.90
2.68
2.20-2.30
62.3-65.1
3.00
1.36
9.20
4.17
6.10
2.77
2.30-2.40
65.1-68.0
3.00
1.36
9.60
4.35
6.30
2.86
2.40-2.50
68.0-70.8
3.00
1.36
10.00
4.54
6.50
2.95
2.50-2.60
70.8-73.6
3.00
1.36
10.50
4.76
6.75
3.06
2.60-2.70
73.6-76.5
3.00
1.36
10.90
4.94
6.95
3.15
2.70-2.80
76.5-79.3
3.00
1.36
11.30
5.13
7.15
3.24
2.80-2.90
79.3-82.1
3.00
1.36
11.70
5.31
7.35
3.33
2.90-3.00
82.1-85.0
3.00
1.36
12.10
5.49
7.55
3.42
3.00-3.10
85.0-87.8
3.00
1.36
12.50
5.67
7.75
3.52
3.10-3.20
87.8-90.6
3.00
1.36
12.90
5.85
7.95
3.61
3.20-3.30
90.6-93.4
3.00
1.36
13.30
6.03
8.15
3.70
3.30-3.40
93.4-96.3
3.00
1.36
13.70
6.21
8.35
3.79
3.40-3.50
96.3-99.1
3.00
1.36
14.10
6.40
8.55
3.88
3.50-3.60
99.1-101.9
3.00
1.36
14.60
6.62
8.80
3.99
3.60-3.70
101.9-104.8
3.00
1.36
15.00
6.80
9.00
4.08
3.70-3.80
104.8-107.6
3.00
1.36
15.40
6.99
9.20
4.17
3.80-3.90
107.6-110.4
3.00
1.36
15.80
7.16
9.40
4.26
3.90-4.00
110.4-113.3
3.00
1.36
16.20
7.34
9.60
4.35
4.00-4.10
113.3-116.1
3.00
1.36
16.60
7.53
9.80
4.45
4.10-4.20
116.1-118.9
3.00
1.36
17.00
7.72
10.00
4.54
4.20-4.30
118.9-121.8
3.00
1.36
17.40
7.90
10.20
4.63
4.30-4.40
121.8-124.6
3.00
1.36
17.80
8.09
10.40
4.72
4.40-4.50
124.6-127.4
3.00
1.36
18.20
8.27
10.60
4.82
4.50-4.60
127.4-130.3
3.00
1.36
18.70
8.46
10.85
4.91
4.60-4.70
130.3-133.1
3.00
1.36
19.10
8.65
11.05
5.00
4.70-4.80
133.1-135.9
3.00
1.36
19.50
8.83
11.25
5.10
4.80-4.90
135.9-138.8
3.00
1.36
19.90
9.02
11.45
5.19
4.90-5.00
138.8-141.6
3.00
1.36
20.30
9.20
11.65
5.28
5.00-5.10
141.6-144.4
3.00
1.36
20.70
9.39
11.85
5.38
5.10-5.20
144.4-147.2
3.00
1.36
21.10
9.58
12.05
5.47
5.20-5.30
147.2-150.1
3.00
1.36
21.50
9.76
12.25
5.56
5.30-5.40
150.1-152.9
3.00
1.36
21.90
9.95
12.45
5.65
5.40-5.50
152.9-155.7
3.00
1.36
22.30
10.13
12.65
5.75
5.50-5.60
155.7-158.6
3.00
1.36
22.80
10.32
12.90
5.84
5.60-5.70
158.6-161.4
3.00
1.36
23.20
10.51
13.10
5.93
5.70-5.80
161.4-164.2
3.00
1.36
23.60
10.69
13.30
6.03
5.80-5.90
164.2-167.1
3.00
1.36
24.00
10.88
13.50
6.12
5.90-6.00
167.1-169.9
3.00
1.36
24.40
11.06
13.70
6.21
6.00-6.10
169.9-172.7
3.00
1.36
24.80
11.25
13.90
6.30
6.10-6.20
172.7-175.6
3.00
1.36
25.20
11.43
14.10
6.40
6.20-6.30
175.6-178.4
3.00
1.36
25.60
11.61
14.30
6.49
6.30-6.40
178.4-181.2
3.00
1.36
26.00
11.79
14.50
6.58
6.40-6.50
181.2-184.1
3.00
1.36
26.40
11.97
14.70
6.67
6.50-6.60
184.1-186.9
3.00
1.36
26.90
12.20
14.95
6.78
6.60-6.70
186.9-189.7
3.00
1.36
27.30
12.38
15.15
6.87
6.70-6.80
189.7-192.6
3.00
1.36
27.70
12.56
15.35
6.96
6.80-6.90
192.6-195.4
3.00
1.36
28.10
12.75
15.55
7.05
6.90-7.00
195.4-198.2
3.00
1.36
28.50
12.93
15.75
7.14
7.00-7.10
198.2-201.0
3.00
1.36
28.90
13.11
15.95
7.23
7.10-7.20
201.0-203.9
3.00
1.36
29.30
13.29
16.15
7.33
7.20-7.30
203.9-206.7
3.00
1.36
29.70
13.47
16.35
7.42
7.30-7.40
206.7-209.5
3.00
1.36
30.10
13.65
16.55
7.51
7.40-7.50
209.5-212.4
3.00
1.36
30.50
13.83
16.75
7.60
7.50-7.60
212.4-215.2
3.00
1.36
31.00
14.06
17.00
7.71
7.60-7.70
215.2-218.0
3.00
1.36
31.40
14.24
17.20
7.80
7.70-7.80
218.0-220.9
3.00
1.36
31.80
14.42
17.40
7.89
7.80-7.90
220.9-223.7
3.00
1.36
32.20
14.61
17.60
7.98
7.90-8.00
223.7-226.5
3.00
1.36
32.60
14.79
17.80
8.07
(1) All test load weights are bone-dry weights.
(2) Allowable tolerance on the test load weights is ±0.10 lbs (0.05 kg).
[80 FR 46767, Aug. 5, 2015; 80 FR 50757, Aug. 21, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 62443, Oct. 16, 2015; 87 FR 33395, June 1, 2022; 87 FR 78820, Dec. 23, 2022; 89 FR 84076, Oct. 21, 2024]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. J3

# Appendix J3 to Subpart B of Part 430—Energy Test Cloth Specifications and Procedures for Determining Correction Coefficients of New Energy Test Cloth Lots

# Note:
DOE maintains an historical record of the standard extractor test data and final correction curve coefficients for each approved lot of energy test cloth. These can be accessed through DOE's web page for standards and test procedures for residential clothes washers at DOE's Building Technologies Office Appliance and Equipment Standards website.

# 1. Objective
This appendix includes the following: (1) Specifications for the energy test cloth to be used for testing clothes washers; (2) procedures for verifying that new lots of energy test cloth meet the defined material specifications; and (3) procedures for developing a set of correction coefficients that correlate the measured remaining moisture content (RMC) values of each new test cloth lot with a set of standard RMC values established as an historical reference point. These correction coefficients are applied to the RMC measurements performed during testing according to appendix J or appendix J2 to this subpart, ensuring that the final corrected RMC measurement for a clothes washer remains independent of the test cloth lot used for testing.

# 2. Definitions
AHAM
means the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.
Bone-dry
means a condition of a load of test cloth that has been dried in a dryer at maximum temperature for a minimum of 10 minutes, removed and weighed before cool down, and then dried again for 10 minute periods until the final weight change of the load is 1 percent or less.
Lot
means a quantity of cloth that has been manufactured with the same batches of cotton and polyester during one continuous process.
Roll
means a subset of a lot.

# 3. Energy Test Cloth Specifications
The energy test cloths and energy stuffer cloths must meet the following specifications:
3.1 The test cloth material should come from a roll of material with a width of approximately 63 inches and approximately 500 yards per roll. However, other sizes may be used if the test cloth material meets the specifications listed in sections 3.2 through 3.6 of this appendix.
3.2
Nominal fabric type.
Pure finished bleached cloth made with a momie or granite weave, which is nominally 50 percent cotton and 50 percent polyester.
3.3
Fabric weight.
5.60 ± 0.25 ounces per square yard (190.0 ± 8.4 g/m2).
3.4
Thread count.
65 x 57 per inch (warp × fill), ±2 percent.
3.5
Fiber content of warp and filling yarn.
50 percent ±4 percent cotton, with the balance being polyester, open end spun, 15/1 ±5 percent cotton count blended yarn.
3.6 Water repellent finishes, such as fluoropolymer stain resistant finishes, must not be applied to the test cloth.
3.7.
Test cloth dimensions.
3.7.1
Energy test cloth.
The energy test cloth must be made from energy test cloth material, as specified in section 3.1 of this appendix, that is 24 ±
1/2
inches by 36 ±
1/2
inches (61.0 ± 1.3 cm by 91.4 ± 1.3 cm) and has been hemmed to 22 ±
1/2
inches by 34 ±
1/2
inches (55.9 ± 1.3 cm by 86.4 ± 1.3 cm) before washing.
3.7.2
Energy stuffer cloth.
The energy stuffer cloth must be made from energy test cloth material, as specified in section 3.1 of this appendix, that is 12 ±
1/4
inches by 12 ±
1/4
inches (30.5 ± 0.6 cm by 30.5 ± 0.6 cm) and has been hemmed to 10 ±
1/4
inches by 10 ±
1/4
inches (25.4 ± 0.6 cm by 25.4 ± 0.6 cm) before washing.
3.8 The test cloth must be clean and must not be used for more than 60 test runs (after pre-conditioning as specified in section 5 of this appendix). All test cloth must be permanently marked identifying the lot number of the material. Mixed lots of material must not be used for testing a clothes washer according to appendix J or appendix J2 to this subpart.

# 4. Equipment Specifications
4.1
Extractor.
Use a North Star Engineered Products Inc. (formerly Bock) Model 215 extractor (having a basket diameter of 20 inches, height of 11.5 inches, and volume of 2.09 ft
3
), with a variable speed drive (North Star Engineered Products, P.O. Box 5127, Toledo, OH 43611) or an equivalent extractor with same basket design (
i.e.,
diameter, height, volume, and hole configuration) and variable speed drive. Table 4.1 of this appendix shows the extractor spin speed, in revolutions per minute (RPM), that must be used to attain each required g-force level.
Table 4.1—Extractor Spin Speeds for Each Test Condition
“g Force”
RPM
100
594 ± 1
200
840 ± 1
350
1,111 ± 1
500
1,328 ± 1
650
1,514 ± 1
4.2
Bone-dryer.
The dryer used for drying the cloth to bone-dry must heat the test cloth and energy stuffer cloths above 210 °F (99 °C).

# 5. Test Cloth Pre-Conditioning Instructions
Use the following instructions for performing pre-conditioning of new energy test cloths and energy stuffer cloths as specified throughout section 7 and section 8 of this appendix, and before any clothes washer testing using appendix J or appendix J2 to this subpart: Perform five complete wash-rinse-spin cycles, the first two with current AHAM Standard detergent Formula 3 and the last three without detergent. Place the test cloth in a clothes washer set at the maximum water level. Wash the load for ten minutes in soft water (17 ppm hardness or less) using 27.0 grams + 4.0 grams per pound of cloth load of AHAM Standard detergent Formula 3. The wash temperature is to be controlled to 135 °F ± 5 °F (57.2 °C ± 2.8 °C) and the rinse temperature is to be controlled to 60 °F ± 5 °F (15.6 °C ± 2.8 °C). Dry the load to bone-dry between each of the five wash-rinse-spin cycles. The maximum shrinkage after preconditioning must not be more than 5 percent of the length and width. Measure per AATCC Test Method 135-2010 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

# 6. Extractor Run Instructions
Use the following instructions for performing each of the extractor runs specified throughout section 7 and section 8 of this appendix:
6.1
Test load size.
Use a test load size of 8.4 lbs.
6.2 Measure the average RMC for each sample loads as follows:
6.2.1 Dry the test cloth until it is bone-dry according to the definition in section 2 of this appendix. Record the bone-dry weight of the test load (WI).
6.2.2 Prepare the test load for soak by grouping four test cloths into loose bundles. Create the bundles by hanging four cloths vertically from one corner and loosely wrapping the test cloth onto itself to form the bundle. Bundles should be wrapped loosely to ensure consistency of water extraction. Then place the bundles into the water to soak. Eight to nine bundles will be formed depending on the test load. The ninth bundle may not equal four cloths but can incorporate energy stuffer cloths to help offset the size difference.
6.2.3 Soak the test load for 20 minutes in 10 gallons of soft (
17 ppm) water. The entire test load must be submerged. Maintain a water temperature of 100 °F ± 5 °F (37.8 °C ± 2.8 °C) at all times between the start and end of the soak.
6.2.4 Remove the test load and allow each of the test cloth bundles to drain over the water bath for a maximum of 5 seconds.
6.2.5 Manually place the test cloth bundles in the basket of the extractor, distributing them evenly by eye. The draining and loading process must take no longer than 1 minute. Spin the load at a fixed speed corresponding to the intended centripetal acceleration level (measured in units of the acceleration of gravity, g) ± 1g for the intended time period ± 5 seconds. Begin the timer when the extractor meets the required spin speed for each test.
6.2.6 Record the weight of the test load immediately after the completion of the extractor spin cycle (WC).
6.2.7 Calculate the remaining moisture content of the test load as (WC-WI)/WI.
6.2.8 Draining the soak tub is not necessary if the water bath is corrected for water level and temperature before the next extraction.
6.2.9 Drying the test load in between extraction runs is not necessary. However, the bone-dry weight must be checked after every 12 extraction runs to make sure the bone-dry weight is within tolerance (8.4 ± 0.1 lbs). Following this, the test load must be soaked and extracted once before continuing with the remaining extraction runs. Perform this extraction at the same spin speed used for the extraction run prior to checking the bone-dry weight, for a time period of 4 minutes. Either warm or cold soak temperature may be used.

# 7. Test Cloth Material Verification Procedure
7.1
Material Properties Verification.
The test cloth manufacturer must supply a certificate of conformance to ensure that the energy test cloth and stuffer cloth samples used for prequalification testing meet the specifications in section 3 of this appendix. The material properties of one energy test cloth from each of the first, middle, and last rolls must be evaluated as follows, prior to pre-conditioning:
7.1.1
Dimensions.
Each hemmed energy test cloth must meet the size specifications in section 3.7.1 of this appendix. Each hemmed stuffer cloth must meet the size specifications in section 3.7.2 of this appendix.
7.1.2
Oil repellency.
Perform AATCC Test Method 118-2007, Oil Repellency: Hydrocarbon Resistance Test, (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3), to confirm the absence of Scotchguard
TM
or other water-repellent finish. An Oil Repellency Grade of 0 (Fails Kaydol) is required.
7.1.3
Absorbency.
Perform AATCC Test Method 79-2010, Absorbency of Textiles, (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3), to confirm the absence of Scotchguard
TM
or other water-repellent finish. The time to absorb one drop must be on the order of 1 second.
7.2
Uniformity Verification.
The uniformity of each test cloth lot must be evaluated as follows.
7.2.1
Pre-conditioning.
Pre-condition the energy test cloths and energy stuffer cloths used for uniformity verification, as specified in section 5 of this appendix.
7.2.2
Distribution of samples.
Test loads must be comprised of cloth from three different rolls from the sample lot. Each roll from a lot must be marked in the run order that it was made. The three rolls are selected based on the run order such that the first, middle, and last rolls are used. As the rolls are cut into cloth, fabric must be selected from the beginning, middle, and end of the roll to create separate loads from each location, for a total of nine sample loads according to Table 7.2.2.
Table 7.2.2—Distribution of Sample Loads for Prequalification Testing
Roll No.
Roll location
First
Beginning.
Middle.
End.
Middle
Beginning.
Middle.
End.
Last
Beginning.
Middle.
End.
7.2.3 Measure the remaining moisture content of each of the nine sample test loads, as specified in section 6 of this appendix, using a centripetal acceleration of 350g (corresponding to 1111 ± 1 RPM) and a spin duration of 15 minutes ± 5 seconds.
7.2.4 Repeat section 7.2.3 of this appendix an additional two times and calculate the arithmetic average of the three RMC values to determine the average RMC value for each sample load. It is not necessary to dry the load to bone-dry the load before the second and third replications.
7.2.5 Calculate the coefficient of variation (CV) of the nine average RMC values from each sample load. The CV must be less than or equal to 1 percent for the test cloth lot to be considered acceptable and to perform the standard extractor RMC testing.

# 8. RMC Correction Curve Procedure
8.1
Pre-conditioning.
Pre-condition the energy test cloths and energy stuffer cloths used for RMC correction curve measurements, as specified in section 5 of this appendix.
8.2
Distribution of samples.
Test loads must be comprised of randomly selected cloth at the beginning, middle and end of a lot. Two test loads may be used, with each load used for half of the total number of required tests. Separate test loads must be used from the loads used for uniformity verification.
8.3 Measure the remaining moisture content of the test load, as specified in section 6 of this appendix at five g-force levels: 100 g, 200 g, 350 g, 500 g, and 650 g, using two different spin times at each g level: 4 minutes and 15 minutes. Table 4.1 of this appendix provides the corresponding spin speeds for each g-force level.
8.4 Repeat section 8.3 of this appendix using soft (
17 ppm) water at 60 °F ± 5 °F (15.6 °C ± 2.8 °C).
8.5 Repeat sections 8.3.3 and 8.3.4 of this appendix an additional two times, so that three replications at each extractor condition are performed. When this procedure is performed in its entirety, a total of 60 extractor RMC test runs are required.
8.6 Average the values of the 3 replications performed for each extractor condition specified in section 8.3 of this appendix.
8.7 Perform a linear least-squares fit to determine coefficients A and B such that the standard RMC values shown in Table 8.7 of this appendix (RMC
standard
) are linearly related to the average RMC values calculated in section 8.6 of this appendix (RMC
cloth
):
RMC
standard
~ A × RMC
cloth
+ B
where A and B are coefficients of the linear least-squares fit.
Table 8.7—Standard RMC Values
“g Force”
RMC percentage
Warm soak
15 min. spin
(percent)
4 min. spin
(percent)
Cold soak
15 min. spin
(percent)
4 min. spin
(percent)
100
45.9
49.9
49.7
52.8
200
35.7
40.4
37.9
43.1
350
29.6
33.1
30.7
35.8
500
24.2
28.7
25.5
30.0
650
23.0
26.4
24.1
28.0
8.8 Perform an analysis of variance with replication test using two factors, spin speed and lot, to check the interaction of speed and lot. Use the values from section 8.6 of this appendix and Table 8.7 of this appendix in the calculation. The “P” value of the F-
statistic for interaction between spin speed and lot in the variance analysis must be greater than or equal to 0.1. If the “P” value is less than 0.1, the test cloth is unacceptable. “P” is a theoretically based measure of interaction based on an analysis of variance.

# 9. Application of the RMC Correction Curve
9.1 Using the coefficients A and B calculated in section 8.7 of this appendix:
RMC
corr
= A × RMC + B
9.2 Apply this RMC correction curve to measured RMC values in appendix J and appendix J2 to this subpart.
[87 FR 33403, June 1, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 78820, Dec. 23, 2022]
Appendixes K-L to Subpart B of Part 430 [Reserved]
Pt. 430, Subpt. B, App. M

# Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430—Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps

# Note:
Prior to January 1, 2023, if using the appendix M test procedure for representations, including compliance certifications, with respect to the energy use, power, or efficiency of central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps, any such representations must be based on the results of testing pursuant to either this appendix or the procedures in appendix M as it appeared at 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, in the 10 CFR parts 200 to 499 edition revised as of January 1, 2022. Any representations made with respect to the energy use or efficiency of such central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps must be in accordance with whichever version is selected. Any representations, including compliance certifications, made with respect to the energy use, power, or efficiency of central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps made on or after January 1, 2023, must be based on the results of testing pursuant the procedures in appendix M1 to this subpart.
On or after July 5, 2017 and prior to January 1, 2023, any representations, including compliance certifications, made with respect to the energy use, power, or efficiency of central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps must be based on the results of testing pursuant to this appendix.
On or after January 1, 2023, any representations, including compliance certifications, made with respect to the energy use, power, or efficiency of central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps must be based on the results of testing pursuant to appendix M1 of this subpart.

# 1. Scope and Definitions

# 1.1 Scope
This test procedure provides a method of determining SEER, EER, HSPF and P
W,OFF
for central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps including the following categories:
(a) Split-system air conditioners, including single-split, multi-head mini-split, multi-split (including VRF), and multi-circuit systems
(b) Split-system heat pumps, including single-split, multi-head mini-split, multi-split (including VRF), and multi-circuit systems
(c) Single-package air conditioners
(d) Single-package heat pumps
(e) Small-duct, high-velocity systems (including VRF)
(f) Space-constrained products—air conditioners
(g) Space-constrained products—heat pumps
For purposes of this appendix, the Department of Energy incorporates by reference specific sections of several industry standards, as listed in § 430.3. In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the incorporated standards.
All section references refer to sections within this appendix unless otherwise stated.

# 1.2 Definitions
Airflow-control settings
are programmed or wired control system configurations that control a fan to achieve discrete, differing ranges of airflow—often designated for performing a specific function (
e.g.,
cooling, heating, or constant circulation)—without manual adjustment other than interaction with a user-operable control (
i.e.,
a thermostat) that meets the manufacturer specifications for installed-use. For the purposes of this appendix, manufacturer specifications for installed-use are those found in the product literature shipped with the unit.
Air sampling device
is an assembly consisting of a manifold with several branch tubes with multiple sampling holes that draws an air sample from a critical location from the unit under test (
e.g.
indoor air inlet, indoor air outlet, outdoor air inlet, etc.).
Airflow prevention device
denotes a device that prevents airflow via natural convection by mechanical means, such as an air damper box, or by means of changes in duct height, such as an upturned duct.
Aspirating psychrometer
is a piece of equipment with a monitored airflow section that draws uniform airflow through the measurement section and has probes for measurement of air temperature and humidity.
Blower coil indoor unit
means an indoor unit either with an indoor blower housed with the coil or with a separate designated
air mover such as a furnace or a modular blower (as defined in appendix AA to the subpart).
Blower coil system
refers to a split system that includes one or more blower coil indoor units.
Cased coil
means a coil-only indoor unit with external cabinetry.
Coefficient of Performance (COP)
means the ratio of the average rate of space heating delivered to the average rate of electrical energy consumed by the heat pump. These rate quantities must be determined from a single test or, if derived via interpolation, must be determined at a single set of operating conditions. COP is a dimensionless quantity. When determined for a ducted coil-only system, COP must include the sections 3.7 and 3.9.1 of this appendix: Default values for the heat output and power input of a fan motor.
Coil-only indoor unit
means an indoor unit that is distributed in commerce without an indoor blower or separate designated air mover. A coil-only indoor unit installed in the field relies on a separately-installed furnace or a modular blower for indoor air movement.
Coil-only system
refers to a system that includes only (one or more) coil-only indoor units.
Condensing unit
removes the heat absorbed by the refrigerant to transfer it to the outside environment and consists of an outdoor coil, compressor(s), and air moving device.
Constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower
means a fan that varies its operating speed to provide a fixed air-volume-rate from a ducted system.
Continuously recorded,
when referring to a dry bulb measurement, dry bulb temperature used for test room control, wet bulb temperature, dew point temperature, or relative humidity measurements, means that the specified value must be sampled at regular intervals that are equal to or less than 15 seconds.
Cooling load factor (CLF)
means the ratio having as its numerator the total cooling delivered during a cyclic operating interval consisting of one ON period and one OFF period, and as its denominator the total cooling that would be delivered, given the same ambient conditions, had the unit operated continuously at its steady-state, space-cooling capacity for the same total time (ON + OFF) interval.
Crankcase heater
means any electrically powered device or mechanism for intentionally generating heat within and/or around the compressor sump volume. Crankcase heater control may be achieved using a timer or may be based on a change in temperature or some other measurable parameter, such that the crankcase heater is not required to operate continuously. A crankcase heater without controls operates continuously when the compressor is not operating.
Cyclic Test
means a test where the unit's compressor is cycled on and off for specific time intervals. A cyclic test provides half the information needed to calculate a degradation coefficient.
Damper box
means a short section of duct having an air damper that meets the performance requirements of section 2.5.7 of this appendix.
Degradation coefficient (C
D
)
means a parameter used in calculating the part load factor. The degradation coefficient for cooling is denoted by C
D
c
. The degradation coefficient for heating is denoted by C
D
h
.
Demand-defrost control system
means a system that defrosts the heat pump outdoor coil-only when measuring a predetermined degradation of performance. The heat pump's controls either:
(1) Monitor one or more parameters that always vary with the amount of frost accumulated on the outdoor coil (
e.g.,
coil to air differential temperature, coil differential air pressure, outdoor fan power or current, optical sensors) at least once for every ten minutes of compressor ON-time when space heating or
(2) operate as a feedback system that measures the length of the defrost period and adjusts defrost frequency accordingly. In all cases, when the frost parameter(s) reaches a predetermined value, the system initiates a defrost. In a demand-defrost control system, defrosts are terminated based on monitoring a parameter(s) that indicates that frost has been eliminated from the coil. (
Note:
Systems that vary defrost intervals according to outdoor dry-bulb temperature are not demand-defrost systems.) A demand-defrost control system, which otherwise meets the above requirements, may allow time-initiated defrosts if, and only if, such defrosts occur after 6 hours of compressor operating time.
Design heating requirement (DHR)
predicts the space heating load of a residence when subjected to outdoor design conditions. Estimates for the minimum and maximum DHR are provided for six generalized U.S. climatic regions in section 4.2 of this appendix.
Dry-coil tests
are cooling mode tests where the wet-bulb temperature of the air supplied to the indoor unit is maintained low enough that no condensate forms on the evaporator coil.
Ducted system
means an air conditioner or heat pump that is designed to be permanently installed equipment and delivers conditioned air to the indoor space through a duct(s). The air conditioner or heat pump may be either a split-system or a single-package unit.
Energy efficiency ratio (EER)
means the ratio of the average rate of space cooling delivered to the average rate of electrical energy consumed by the air conditioner or heat pump. Determine these rate quantities from
a single test or, if derived via interpolation, determine at a single set of operating conditions. EER is expressed in units of
ER05JA17.305
When determined for a ducted coil-only system, EER must include, from this appendix, the section 3.3 and 3.5.1 default values for the heat output and power input of a fan motor.
Evaporator coil
means an assembly that absorbs heat from an enclosed space and transfers the heat to a refrigerant.
Heat pump
means a kind of central air conditioner that utilizes an indoor conditioning coil, compressor, and refrigerant-to-outdoor air heat exchanger to provide air heating, and may also provide air cooling, air dehumidifying, air humidifying, air circulating, and air cleaning.
Heat pump having a heat comfort controller
means a heat pump with controls that can regulate the operation of the electric resistance elements to assure that the air temperature leaving the indoor section does not fall below a specified temperature. Heat pumps that actively regulate the rate of electric resistance heating when operating below the balance point (as the result of a second stage call from the thermostat) but do not operate to maintain a minimum delivery temperature are not considered as having a heat comfort controller.
Heating load factor (HLF)
means the ratio having as its numerator the total heating delivered during a cyclic operating interval consisting of one ON period and one OFF period, and its denominator the heating capacity measured at the same test conditions used for the cyclic test, multiplied by the total time interval (ON plus OFF) of the cyclic-test.
Heating season
means the months of the year that require heating,
e.g.,
typically, and roughly, October through April.
Heating seasonal performance factor (HSPF)
means the total space heating required during the heating season, expressed in Btu, divided by the total electrical energy consumed by the heat pump system during the same season, expressed in watt-hours. The HSPF used to evaluate compliance with 10 CFR 430.32(c) is based on Region IV and the sampling plan stated in 10 CFR 429.16(a). HSPF is determined in accordance with appendix M.
Independent coil manufacturer (ICM)
means a manufacturer that manufactures indoor units but does not manufacture single-package units or outdoor units.
Indoor unit
means a separate assembly of a split system that includes—
(1) An arrangement of refrigerant-to-air heat transfer coil(s) for transfer of heat between the refrigerant and the indoor air,
(2) A condensate drain pan, and may or may not include
(3) Sheet metal or plastic parts not part of external cabinetry to direct/route airflow over the coil(s),
(4) A cooling mode expansion device,
(5) External cabinetry, and
(6) An integrated indoor blower (
i.e.
a device to move air including its associated motor). A separate designated air mover that may be a furnace or a modular blower (as defined in appendix AA to the subpart) may be considered to be part of the indoor unit. A service coil is not an indoor unit.
Multi-head mini-split system
means a split system that has one outdoor unit and that has two or more indoor units connected with a single refrigeration circuit. The indoor units operate in unison in response to a single indoor thermostat.
Multiple-circuit (or multi-circuit) system
means a split system that has one outdoor unit and that has two or more indoor units installed on two or more refrigeration circuits such that each refrigeration circuit serves a compressor and one and only one indoor unit, and refrigerant is not shared from circuit to circuit.
Multiple-split (or multi-split) system
means a split system that has one outdoor unit and two or more coil-only indoor units and/or blower coil indoor units connected with a single refrigerant circuit. The indoor units operate independently and can condition multiple zones in response to at least two indoor thermostats or temperature sensors. The outdoor unit operates in response to independent operation of the indoor units based on control input of multiple indoor thermostats or temperature sensors, and/or based on refrigeration circuit sensor input (
e.g.,
suction pressure).
Nominal capacity
means the capacity that is claimed by the manufacturer on the product name plate.
Nominal cooling capacity
is approximate to the air conditioner cooling capacity tested at A or A
2
condition.
Nominal heating capacity
is approximate to the heat pump heating capacity tested in H1
N
test.
Non-ducted indoor unit
means an indoor unit that is designed to be permanently installed, mounted on room walls and/or ceilings, and that directly heats or cools air within the conditioned space.
Normalized Gross Indoor Fin Surface (NGIFS)
means the gross fin surface area of the indoor unit coil divided by the cooling capacity measured for the A or A2 Test, whichever applies.
Off-mode power consumption
means the power consumption when the unit is connected to its main power source but is neither providing cooling nor heating to the building it serves.
Off-mode season
means, for central air conditioners other than heat pumps, the shoulder season and the entire heating season; and for heat pumps, the shoulder season only.
Outdoor unit
means a separate assembly of a split system that transfers heat between the refrigerant and the outdoor air, and consists of an outdoor coil, compressor(s), an air moving device, and in addition for heat pumps, may include a heating mode expansion device, reversing valve, and/or defrost controls.
Outdoor unit manufacturer (OUM)
means a manufacturer of single-package units, outdoor units, and/or both indoor units and outdoor units.
Part-load factor (PLF)
means the ratio of the cyclic EER (or COP for heating) to the steady-state EER (or COP), where both EERs (or COPs) are determined based on operation at the same ambient conditions.
Seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER)
means the total heat removed from the conditioned space during the annual cooling season, expressed in Btu's, divided by the total electrical energy consumed by the central air conditioner or heat pump during the same season, expressed in watt-hours. SEER is determined in accordance with appendix M.
Service coil
means an arrangement of refrigerant-to-air heat transfer coil(s), condensate drain pan, sheet metal or plastic parts to direct/route airflow over the coil(s), which may or may not include external cabinetry and/or a cooling mode expansion device, distributed in commerce solely for replacing an uncased coil or cased coil that has already been placed into service, and that has been labeled “for indoor coil replacement only” on the nameplate and in manufacturer technical and product literature. The model number for any service coil must include some mechanism (
e.g.,
an additional letter or number) for differentiating a service coil from a coil intended for an indoor unit.
Shoulder season
means the months of the year in between those months that require cooling and those months that require heating,
e.g.,
typically, and roughly, April through May, and September through October.
Single-package unit
means any central air conditioner or heat pump that has all major assemblies enclosed in one cabinet.
Single-split system
means a split system that has one outdoor unit and one indoor unit connected with a single refrigeration circuit.
Small-duct, high-velocity system
means a split system for which all indoor units are blower coil indoor units that produce at least 1.2 inches (of water column) of external static pressure when operated at the full-load air volume rate certified by the manufacturer of at least 220 scfm per rated ton of cooling.
Split system
means any air conditioner or heat pump that has at least two separate assemblies that are connected with refrigerant piping when installed. One of these assemblies includes an indoor coil that exchanges heat with the indoor air to provide heating or cooling, while one of the others includes an outdoor coil that exchanges heat with the outdoor air. Split systems may be either blower coil systems or coil-only systems.
Standard Air
means dry air having a mass density of 0.075 lb/ft
3
.
Steady-state test
means a test where the test conditions are regulated to remain as constant as possible while the unit operates continuously in the same mode.
Temperature bin
means the 5 °F increments that are used to partition the outdoor dry-bulb temperature ranges of the cooling (≥65 °F) and heating (
65 °F) seasons.
Test condition tolerance
means the maximum permissible difference between the average value of the measured test parameter and the specified test condition.
Test operating tolerance
means the maximum permissible range that a measurement may vary over the specified test interval. The difference between the maximum and minimum sampled values must be less than or equal to the specified test operating tolerance.
Tested combination
means a multi-head mini-split, multi-split, or multi-circuit system having the following features:
(1) The system consists of one outdoor unit with one or more compressors matched with between two and five indoor units;
(2) The indoor units must:
(i) Collectively, have a nominal cooling capacity greater than or equal to 95 percent and less than or equal to 105 percent of the nominal cooling capacity of the outdoor unit;
(ii) Each represent the highest sales volume model family, if this is possible while meeting all the requirements of this section. If this is not possible, one or more of the indoor units may represent another indoor model family in order that all the other requirements of this section are met.
(iii) Individually not have a nominal cooling capacity greater than 50 percent of the nominal cooling capacity of the outdoor
unit, unless the nominal cooling capacity of the outdoor unit is 24,000 Btu/h or less;
(iv) Operate at fan speeds consistent with manufacturer's specifications; and
(v) All be subject to the same minimum external static pressure requirement while able to produce the same external static pressure at the exit of each outlet plenum when connected in a manifold configuration as required by the test procedure.
(3) Where referenced, “nominal cooling capacity” means, for indoor units, the highest cooling capacity listed in published product literature for 95 °F outdoor dry bulb temperature and 80 °F dry bulb, 67 °F wet bulb indoor conditions, and for outdoor units, the lowest cooling capacity listed in published product literature for these conditions. If incomplete or no operating conditions are published, the highest (for indoor units) or lowest (for outdoor units) such cooling capacity available for sale must be used.
Time-adaptive defrost control system
is a demand-defrost control system that measures the length of the prior defrost period(s) and uses that information to automatically determine when to initiate the next defrost cycle.
Time-temperature defrost control systems
initiate or evaluate initiating a defrost cycle only when a predetermined cumulative compressor ON-time is obtained. This predetermined ON-time is generally a fixed value (
e.g.,
30, 45, 90 minutes) although it may vary based on the measured outdoor dry-bulb temperature. The ON-time counter accumulates if controller measurements (
e.g.,
outdoor temperature, evaporator temperature) indicate that frost formation conditions are present, and it is reset/remains at zero at all other times. In one application of the control scheme, a defrost is initiated whenever the counter time equals the predetermined ON-time. The counter is reset when the defrost cycle is completed.
In a second application of the control scheme, one or more parameters are measured (
e.g.,
air and/or refrigerant temperatures) at the predetermined, cumulative, compressor ON-time. A defrost is initiated only if the measured parameter(s) falls within a predetermined range. The ON-time counter is reset regardless of whether or not a defrost is initiated. If systems of this second type use cumulative ON-time intervals of 10 minutes or less, then the heat pump may qualify as having a demand defrost control system (see definition).
Triple-capacity, northern heat pump
means a heat pump that provides two stages of cooling and three stages of heating. The two common stages for both the cooling and heating modes are the low capacity stage and the high capacity stage. The additional heating mode stage is the booster capacity stage, which offers the highest heating capacity output for a given set of ambient operating conditions.
Triple-split system
means a split system that is composed of three separate assemblies: An outdoor fan coil section, a blower coil indoor unit, and an indoor compressor section.
Two-capacity (or two-stage) compressor system
means a central air conditioner or heat pump that has a compressor or a group of compressors operating with only two stages of capacity. For such systems, low capacity means the compressor(s) operating at low stage, or at low load test conditions. The low compressor stage that operates for heating mode tests may be the same or different from the low compressor stage that operates for cooling mode tests. For such systems, high capacity means the compressor(s) operating at high stage, or at full load test conditions.
Two-capacity, northern heat pump
means a heat pump that has a factory or field-selectable lock-out feature to prevent space cooling at high-capacity. Two-capacity heat pumps having this feature will typically have two sets of ratings, one with the feature disabled and one with the feature enabled. The heat pump is a two-capacity northern heat pump only when this feature is enabled at all times. The certified indoor coil model number must reflect whether the ratings pertain to the lockout enabled option via the inclusion of an extra identifier, such as “+LO”. When testing as a two-capacity, northern heat pump, the lockout feature must remain enabled for all tests.
Uncased coil
means a coil-only indoor unit without external cabinetry.
Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) system
means a multi-split system with at least three compressor capacity stages, distributing refrigerant through a piping network to multiple indoor blower coil units each capable of individual zone temperature control, through proprietary zone temperature control devices and a common communications network.
Note:
Single-phase VRF systems less than 65,000 Btu/h are central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps.
Variable-speed compressor system
means a central air conditioner or heat pump that has a compressor that uses a variable-speed drive to vary the compressor speed to achieve variable capacities.
Wet-coil test
means a test conducted at test conditions that typically cause water vapor to condense on the test unit evaporator coil.

# 2. Testing Overview and Conditions
(A) Test VRF systems using AHRI 1230-2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) and appendix M. Where AHRI 1230-2010 refers to the appendix C therein substitute the provisions of this appendix. In cases where there
is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over AHRI 1230-2010.
For definitions use section 1 of appendix M and section 3 of AHRI 1230-2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). For rounding requirements, refer to § 430.23(m). For determination of certified ratings, refer to § 429.16 of this chapter.
For test room requirements, refer to section 2.1 of this appendix. For test unit installation requirements refer to sections 2.2.a, 2.2.b, 2.2.c, 2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.3(a), 2.2.3(c), 2.2.4, 2.2.5, and 2.4 to 2.12 of this appendix, and sections 5.1.3 and 5.1.4 of AHRI 1230-2010. The “manufacturer's published instructions,” as stated in section 8.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) and “manufacturer's installation instructions” discussed in this appendix mean the manufacturer's installation instructions that come packaged with or appear in the labels applied to the unit. This does not include online manuals. Installation instructions that appear in the labels applied to the unit take precedence over installation instructions that are shipped with the unit.
For general requirements for the test procedure, refer to section 3.1 of this appendix, except for sections 3.1.3 and 3.1.4, which are requirements for indoor air volume and outdoor air volume. For indoor air volume and outdoor air volume requirements, refer instead to section 6.1.5 (except where section 6.1.5 refers to Table 8, refer instead to Table 4 of this appendix) and 6.1.6 of AHRI 1230-2010.
For the test method, refer to sections 3.3 to 3.5 and 3.7 to 3.13 of this appendix. For cooling mode and heating mode test conditions, refer to section 6.2 of AHRI 1230-2010. For calculations of seasonal performance descriptors, refer to section 4 of this appendix.
(B) For systems other than VRF, only a subset of the sections listed in this test procedure apply when testing and determining represented values for a particular unit. Table 1 shows the sections of the test procedure that apply to each system. This table is meant to assist manufacturers in finding the appropriate sections of the test procedure; the appendix sections rather than the table provide the specific requirements for testing, and given the varied nature of available units, manufacturers are responsible for determining which sections apply to each unit tested based on the unit's characteristics. To use this table, first refer to the sections listed under “all units”. Then refer to additional requirements based on:
(1) System configuration(s),
(2) The compressor staging or modulation capability, and
(3) Any special features.
Testing requirements for space-constrained products do not differ from similar equipment that is not space-constrained and thus are not listed separately in this table. Air conditioners and heat pumps are not listed separately in this table, but heating procedures and calculations apply only to heat pumps.
ER05JA17.004
ER05JA17.005
ER05JA17.006

# 2.1 Test Room Requirements
a. Test using two side-by-side rooms: An indoor test room and an outdoor test room. For multiple-split, single-zone-multi-coil or multi-circuit air conditioners and heat pumps, however, use as many indoor test rooms as needed to accommodate the total number of indoor units. These rooms must
comply with the requirements specified in sections 8.1.2 and 8.1.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).
b. Inside these test rooms, use artificial loads during cyclic tests and frost accumulation tests, if needed, to produce stabilized room air temperatures. For one room, select an electric resistance heater(s) having a heating capacity that is approximately equal to the heating capacity of the test unit's condenser. For the second room, select a heater(s) having a capacity that is close to the sensible cooling capacity of the test unit's evaporator. Cycle the heater located in the same room as the test unit evaporator coil ON and OFF when the test unit cycles ON and OFF. Cycle the heater located in the same room as the test unit condensing coil ON and OFF when the test unit cycles OFF and ON.

# 2.2 Test Unit Installation Requirements
a. Install the unit according to section 8.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3), subject to the following additional requirements:
(1) When testing split systems, follow the requirements given in section 6.1.3.5 of AHRI 210/240-2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). For the vapor refrigerant line(s), use the insulation included with the unit; if no insulation is provided, use insulation meeting the specifications for the insulation in the installation instructions included with the unit by the manufacturer; if no insulation is included with the unit and the installation instructions do not contain provisions for insulating the line(s), fully insulate the vapor refrigerant line(s) with vapor proof insulation having an inside diameter that matches the refrigerant tubing and a nominal thickness of at least 0.5 inches. For the liquid refrigerant line(s), use the insulation included with the unit; if no insulation is provided, use insulation meeting the specifications for the insulation in the installation instructions included with the unit by the manufacturer; if no insulation is included with the unit and the installation instructions do not contain provisions for insulating the line(s), leave the liquid refrigerant line(s) exposed to the air for air conditioners and heat pumps that heat and cool; or, for heating-only heat pumps, insulate the liquid refrigerant line(s) with insulation having an inside diameter that matches the refrigerant tubing and a nominal thickness of at least 0.5 inches. However, these requirements do not take priority over instructions for application of insulation for the purpose of improving refrigerant temperature measurement accuracy as required by sections 2.10.2 and 2.10.3 of this appendix. Insulation must be the same for the cooling and heating tests.
(2) When testing split systems, if the indoor unit does not ship with a cooling mode expansion device, test the system using the device as specified in the installation instructions provided with the indoor unit. If none is specified, test the system using a fixed orifice or piston type expansion device that is sized appropriately for the system.
(3) When testing triple-split systems (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), use the tubing length specified in section 6.1.3.5 of AHRI 210/240-2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) to connect the outdoor coil, indoor compressor section, and indoor coil while still meeting the requirement of exposing 10 feet of the tubing to outside conditions;
(4) When testing split systems having multiple indoor coils, connect each indoor blower coil unit to the outdoor unit using:
(a) 25 feet of tubing, or
(b) tubing furnished by the manufacturer, whichever is longer.
At least 10 feet of the system interconnection tubing shall be exposed to the outside conditions. If they are needed to make a secondary measurement of capacity or for verification of refrigerant charge, install refrigerant pressure measuring instruments as described in section 8.2.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). Section 2.10 of this appendix specifies which secondary methods require refrigerant pressure measurements and section 2.2.5.5 of this appendix discusses use of pressure measurements to verify charge. At a minimum, insulate the low-pressure line(s) of a split system with insulation having an inside diameter that matches the refrigerant tubing and a nominal thickness of 0.5 inch.
b. For units designed for both horizontal and vertical installation or for both up-flow and down-flow vertical installations, use the orientation for testing specified by the manufacturer in the certification report. Conduct testing with the following installed:
(1) The most restrictive filter(s);
(2) Supplementary heating coils; and
(3) Other equipment specified as part of the unit, including all hardware used by a heat comfort controller if so equipped (see section 1 of this appendix, Definitions). For small-duct, high-velocity systems, configure all balance dampers or restrictor devices on or inside the unit to fully open or lowest restriction.
c. Testing a ducted unit without having an indoor air filter installed is permissible as long as the minimum external static pressure requirement is adjusted as stated in Table 4, note 3 (see section 3.1.4 of this appendix). Except as noted in section 3.1.10 of this appendix, prevent the indoor air supplementary heating coils from operating during all tests. For uncased coils, create an enclosure using 1 inch fiberglass foil-faced ductboard having a nominal density of 6 pounds per cubic foot. Or alternatively, construct an enclosure using sheet metal or a
similar material and insulating material having a thermal resistance (“R” value) between 4 and 6 hr·ft
2
· °F/Btu. Size the enclosure and seal between the coil and/or drainage pan and the interior of the enclosure as specified in installation instructions shipped with the unit. Also seal between the plenum and inlet and outlet ducts.
d. When testing a coil-only system, install a toroidal-type transformer to power the system's low-voltage components, complying with any additional requirements for the transformer mentioned in the installation manuals included with the unit by the system manufacturer. If the installation manuals do not provide specifications for the transformer, use a transformer having the following features:
(1) A nominal volt-amp rating such that the transformer is loaded between 25 and 90 percent of this rating for the highest level of power measured during the off mode test (section 3.13 of this appendix);
(2) Designed to operate with a primary input of 230 V, single phase, 60 Hz; and
(3) That provides an output voltage that is within the specified range for each low-voltage component. Include the power consumption of the components connected to the transformer as part of the total system power consumption during the off mode tests; do not include the power consumed by the transformer when no load is connected to it.
e. Test an outdoor unit with no match (
i.e.,
that is not distributed in commerce with any indoor units) using a coil-only indoor unit with a single cooling air volume rate whose coil has:
(1) Round tubes of outer diameter no less than 0.375 inches, and
(2) a normalized gross indoor fin surface (NGIFS) no greater than 1.0 square inches per British thermal unit per hour (sq. in./Btu/hr). NGIFS is calculated as follows:
NGIFS
= 2 ×
L
f
×
W
f
×
N
f
÷
Q
c
(95)
where:
L
f
= Indoor coil fin length in inches, also height of the coil transverse to the tubes.
W
f
= Indoor coil fin width in inches, also depth of the coil.
N
f
= Number of fins.
Q
c
(95) = the measured space cooling capacity of the tested outdoor unit/indoor unit combination as determined from the A2 or A Test whichever applies, Btu/h.
ƒ. If the outdoor unit or the outdoor portion of a single-package unit has a drain pan heater to prevent freezing of defrost water, the heater shall be energized, subject to control to de-energize it when not needed by the heater's thermostat or the unit's control system, for all tests.
g. If pressure measurement devices are connected to a cooling/heating heat pump refrigerant circuit, the refrigerant charge M
t
that could potentially transfer out of the connected pressure measurement systems (transducers, gauges, connections, and lines) between operating modes must be less than 2 percent of the factory refrigerant charge listed on the nameplate of the outdoor unit. If the outdoor unit nameplate has no listed refrigerant charge, or the heat pump is shipped without a refrigerant charge, use a factory refrigerant charge equal to 30 ounces per ton of certified cooling capacity. Use Equation 2.2-1 to calculate M
t
for heat pumps that have a single expansion device located in the outdoor unit to serve each indoor unit, and use Equation 2.2-2 to calculate M
t
for heat pumps that have two expansion devices per indoor unit.
ER05JA17.007
ER05JA17.027
where:
V
i
(i=2,3,4. . .) = the internal volume of the pressure measurement system (pressure lines, fittings, and gauge and/or transducer) at the location i (as indicated in Table 2), (cubic inches)
f
i
(i=5,6) = 0 if the pressure measurement system is pitched upwards from the pressure tap location to the gauge or transducer, 1 if it is not.
r
= the density associated with liquid refrigerant at 100 °F bubble point conditions (ounces per cubic inch)
Table 2—Pressure Measurement Locations
Location
Compressor Discharge
1
Between Outdoor Coil and Outdoor Expansion Valve(s)
2
Liquid Service Valve
3
Indoor Coil Inlet
4
Indoor Coil Outlet
5
Common Suction Port (i.e. vapor service valve)
6
Compressor Suction
7
Calculate the internal volume of each pressure measurement system using internal volume reported for pressure transducers and gauges in product literature, if available. If such information is not available, use the value of 0.1 cubic inches internal volume for each pressure transducer, and 0.2 cubic inches for each pressure gauge.
In addition, for heat pumps that have a single expansion device located in the outdoor unit to serve each indoor unit, the internal volume of the pressure system at location 2 (as indicated in Table 2) must be no more than 1 cubic inch. Once the pressure measurement lines are set up, no change should be made until all tests are finished.

# 2.2.1 Defrost Control Settings
Set heat pump defrost controls at the normal settings which most typify those encountered in generalized climatic region IV. (Refer to Figure 1 and Table 20 of section 4.2 of this appendix for information on region IV.) For heat pumps that use a time-adaptive defrost control system (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), the manufacturer must specify in the certification report the frosting interval to be used during frost accumulation tests and provide the procedure for manually initiating the defrost at the specified time.

# 2.2.2 Special Requirements for Units Having a Multiple-Speed Outdoor Fan
Configure the multiple-speed outdoor fan according to the installation manual included with the unit by the manufacturer, and thereafter, leave it unchanged for all tests. The controls of the unit must regulate the operation of the outdoor fan during all lab tests except dry coil cooling mode tests. For dry coil cooling mode tests, the outdoor fan must operate at the same speed used during the required wet coil test conducted at the same outdoor test conditions.

# 2.2.3 Special Requirements for Multi-Split Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps and Ducted Systems Using a Single Indoor Section Containing Multiple Indoor Blowers That Would Normally Operate Using Two or More Indoor Thermostats
Because these systems will have more than one indoor blower and possibly multiple outdoor fans and compressor systems, references in this test procedure to a singular indoor blower, outdoor fan, and/or compressor means all indoor blowers, all outdoor fans, and all compressor systems that are energized during the test.
a. Additional requirements for multi-split air conditioners and heat pumps. For any test where the system is operated at part load (
i.e.,
one or more compressors “off”, operating at the intermediate or minimum compressor speed, or at low compressor capacity), record the indoor coil(s) that are not providing heating or cooling during the test. For variable-speed systems, the manufacturer must designate in the certification report at least one indoor unit that is not providing heating or cooling for all tests conducted at minimum compressor speed.
b. Additional requirements for ducted split systems with a single indoor unit containing multiple indoor blowers (or for single-package units with an indoor section containing multiple indoor blowers) where the indoor blowers are designed to cycle on and off independently of one another and are not controlled such that all indoor blowers are modulated to always operate at the same air volume rate or speed. For any test where the system is operated at its lowest capacity—
i.e.,
the lowest total air volume rate allowed when operating the single-speed compressor or when operating at low compressor capacity—indoor blowers accounting for at least one-third of the full-load air volume rate must be turned off unless prevented by the controls of the unit. In such cases, turn off as many indoor blowers as permitted by the unit's controls. Where more than one option exists for meeting this “off” requirement, the manufacturer shall indicate in its certification report which indoor blower(s) are turned off. The chosen configuration shall remain unchanged for all tests conducted at the same lowest capacity configuration. For any indoor coil turned off during a test, cease forced airflow through any outlet duct connected to a switched-off indoor blower.
c. For test setups where the laboratory's physical limitations requires use of more than the required line length of 25 feet as listed in section 2.2.a(4) of this appendix, then the actual refrigerant line length used by the laboratory may exceed the required length and the refrigerant line length correction factors in Table 4 of AHRI 1230-2010 are applied to the cooling capacity measured for each cooling mode test.

# 2.2.4 Wet-Bulb Temperature Requirements for the Air Entering the Indoor and Outdoor Coils

# 2.2.4.1 Cooling Mode Tests
For wet-coil cooling mode tests, regulate the water vapor content of the air entering the indoor unit so that the wet-bulb temperature is as listed in Tables 5 to 8. As noted in these same tables, achieve a wet-bulb temperature during dry-coil cooling mode tests that results in no condensate forming on the indoor coil. Controlling the water vapor content of the air entering the outdoor side of the unit is not required for cooling mode tests except when testing:
(1) Units that reject condensate to the outdoor coil during wet coil tests. Tables 5-8 list the applicable wet-bulb temperatures.
(2) Single-package units where all or part of the indoor section is located in the outdoor test room. The average dew point temperature of the air entering the outdoor coil during wet coil tests must be within ±3.0 °F of the average dew point temperature of the air entering the indoor coil over the 30-minute data collection interval described in section 3.3 of this appendix. For dry coil tests on such units, it may be necessary to limit the moisture content of the air entering the outdoor coil of the unit to meet the requirements of section 3.4 of this appendix.

# 2.2.4.2 Heating Mode Tests
For heating mode tests, regulate the water vapor content of the air entering the outdoor unit to the applicable wet-bulb temperature listed in Tables 12 to 15. The wet-bulb temperature entering the indoor side of the heat pump must not exceed 60 °F. Additionally, if the Outdoor Air Enthalpy test method (section 2.10.1 of this appendix) is used while testing a single-package heat pump where all or part of the outdoor section is located in the indoor test room, adjust the wet-bulb temperature for the air entering the indoor side to yield an indoor-side dew point temperature that is as close as reasonably possible to the dew point temperature of the outdoor-side entering air.

# 2.2.5 Additional Refrigerant Charging Requirements

# 2.2.5.1 Instructions To Use for Charging
a. Where the manufacturer's installation instructions contain two sets of refrigerant charging criteria, one for field installations and one for lab testing, use the field installation criteria.
b. For systems consisting of an outdoor unit manufacturer's outdoor section and indoor section with differing charging procedures, adjust the refrigerant charge per the outdoor installation instructions.
c. For systems consisting of an outdoor unit manufacturer's outdoor unit and an independent coil manufacturer's indoor unit with differing charging procedures, adjust the refrigerant charge per the indoor unit's installation instructions. If instructions are provided only with the outdoor unit or are provided only with an independent coil manufacturer's indoor unit, then use the provided instructions.

# 2.2.5.2 Test(s) To Use for Charging
a. Use the tests or operating conditions specified in the manufacturer's installation instructions for charging. The manufacturer's installation instructions may specify use of tests other than the A or A
2
test for charging, but, unless the unit is a heating-only heat pump, the air volume rate must be determined by the A or A
2
test as specified in section 3.1 of this appendix.
b. If the manufacturer's installation instructions do not specify a test or operating conditions for charging or there are no manufacturer's instructions, use the following test(s):
(1) For air conditioners or cooling and heating heat pumps, use the A or A
2
test.
(2) For cooling and heating heat pumps that do not operate in the H1 or H1
2
test (
e.g.
due to shut down by the unit limiting devices) when tested using the charge determined at the A or A
2
test, and for heating-only heat pumps, use the H1 or H1
2
test.

# 2.2.5.3 Parameters To Set and Their Target Values
a. Consult the manufacturer's installation instructions regarding which parameters (
e.g.,
superheat) to set and their target values. If the instructions provide ranges of values, select target values equal to the midpoints of the provided ranges.
b. In the event of conflicting information between charging instructions (
i.e.,
multiple conditions given for charge adjustment where all conditions specified cannot be met), follow the following hierarchy.
(1) For fixed orifice systems:
(i) Superheat
(ii) High side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature
(iii) Low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature
(iv) Low side temperature
(v) High side temperature
(vi) Charge weight
(2) For expansion valve systems:
(i) Subcooling
(ii) High side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature
(iii) Low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature
(iv) Approach temperature (difference between temperature of liquid leaving condenser and condenser average inlet air temperature)
(v) Charge weight
c. If there are no installation instructions and/or they do not provide parameters and target values, set superheat to a target value of 12 °F for fixed orifice systems or set subcooling to a target value of 10 °F for expansion valve systems.

# 2.2.5.4 Charging Tolerances
a. If the manufacturer's installation instructions specify tolerances on target values for the charging parameters, set the values within these tolerances.
b. Otherwise, set parameter values within the following test condition tolerances for the different charging parameters:
1. Superheat: ± 2.0 °F
2. Subcooling: ± 2.0 °F
3. High side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew point temperature: ± 4.0 psi or ± 1.0 °F
4. Low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew point temperature: ± 2.0 psi or ± 0.8 °F
5. High side temperature: ±2.0 °F
6. Low side temperature: ±2.0 °F
7. Approach temperature: ± 1.0 °F
8. Charge weight: ± 2.0 ounce

# 2.2.5.5 Special Charging Instructions

# a. Cooling and Heating Heat Pumps
If, using the initial charge set in the A or A
2
test, the conditions are not within the range specified in manufacturer's installation instructions for the H1 or H1
2
test, make as small as possible an adjustment to obtain conditions for this test in the specified range. After this adjustment, recheck conditions in the A or A
2
test to confirm that they are still within the specified range for the A or A
2
test.

# b. Single-Package Systems
Unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer's installation instructions, install one or more refrigerant line pressure gauges during the setup of the unit, located depending on the parameters used to verify or set charge, as described:
(1) Install a pressure gauge at the location of the service valve on the liquid line if charging is on the basis of subcooling, or high side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew point temperature;
(2) Install a pressure gauge at the location of the service valve on the suction line if charging is on the basis of superheat, or low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew point temperature.
Use methods for installing pressure gauge(s) at the required location(s) as indicated in manufacturer's instructions if specified.

# 2.2.5.6 Near-Azeotropic and Zeotropic Refrigerants.
Perform charging of near-azeotropic and zeotropic refrigerants only with refrigerant in the liquid state.

# 2.2.5.7 Adjustment of Charge Between Tests.
After charging the system as described in this test procedure, use the set refrigerant charge for all tests used to determine performance. Do not adjust the refrigerant charge at any point during testing. If measurements indicate that refrigerant charge has leaked during the test, repair the refrigerant leak, repeat any necessary set-up steps, and repeat all tests.

# 2.3 Indoor Air Volume Rates.
If a unit's controls allow for overspeeding the indoor blower (usually on a temporary basis), take the necessary steps to prevent overspeeding during all tests.

# 2.3.1 Cooling Tests
a. Set indoor blower airflow-control settings (
e.g.,
fan motor pin settings, fan motor speed) according to the requirements that are specified in section 3.1.4 of this appendix.
b. Express the Cooling full-load air volume rate, the Cooling Minimum Air Volume Rate, and the Cooling Intermediate Air Volume Rate in terms of standard air.

# 2.3.2 Heating Tests
a. Set indoor blower airflow-control settings (
e.g.,
fan motor pin settings, fan motor speed) according to the requirements that are specified in section 3.1.4 of this appendix.
b. Express the heating full-load air volume rate, the heating minimum air volume rate, the heating intermediate air volume rate, and the heating nominal air volume rate in terms of standard air.

# 2.4 Indoor Coil Inlet and Outlet Duct Connections
Insulate and/or construct the outlet plenum as described in section 2.4.1 of this appendix and, if installed, the inlet plenum described in section 2.4.2 of this appendix with thermal insulation having a nominal overall resistance (R-value) of at least 19 hr·ft
2
· °F/Btu.

# 2.4.1 Outlet Plenum for the Indoor Unit
a. Attach a plenum to the outlet of the indoor coil. (
Note:
For some packaged systems, the indoor coil may be located in the outdoor test room.)
b. For systems having multiple indoor coils, or multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, attach a plenum to each indoor coil or indoor blower outlet. In order to reduce the number of required airflow measurement apparati (section 2.6 of this appendix), each such apparatus may serve multiple outlet plenums connected to a single common duct leading to the apparatus. More than one indoor test room may be used, which may use one or more common ducts leading to one or more airflow measurement apparati within each test room that contains multiple indoor coils. At the plane where each plenum enters a common duct, install an adjustable airflow damper and use it to equalize the static pressure in each plenum. Each outlet air temperature grid (section 2.5.4 of this appendix) and airflow measuring apparatus are located downstream of the inlet(s) to the common duct. For multiple-circuit (or multi-circuit) systems for which each indoor coil outlet is measured
separately and its outlet plenum is not connected to a common duct connecting multiple outlet plenums, the outlet air temperature grid and airflow measuring apparatus must be installed at each outlet plenum.
c. For small-duct, high-velocity systems, install an outlet plenum that has a diameter that is equal to or less than the value listed in Table 3. The limit depends only on the Cooling full-load air volume rate (see section 3.1.4.1.1 of this appendix) and is effective regardless of the flange dimensions on the outlet of the unit (or an air supply plenum adapter accessory, if installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions).
d. Add a static pressure tap to each face of the (each) outlet plenum, if rectangular, or at four evenly distributed locations along the circumference of an oval or round plenum. Create a manifold that connects the four static pressure taps. Figure 9 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) shows allowed options for the manifold configuration. The cross-sectional dimensions of plenum shall be equal to the dimensions of the indoor unit outlet. See Figures 7a, 7b, and 7c of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 for the minimum length of the (each) outlet plenum and the locations for adding the static pressure taps for ducted blower coil indoor units and single-package systems. See Figure 8 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 for coil-only indoor units.
Table 3—Size of Outlet Plenum for Small-Duct High-Velocity Indoor Units
Cooling full-load
air volume rate
(scfm)
Maximum
diameter *
of outlet
plenum
(inches)
≤500
6
501 to 700
7
701 to 900
8
901 to 1100
9
1101 to 1400
10
1401 to 1750
11
* If the outlet plenum is rectangular, calculate its equivalent diameter using (4
A/P,
) where
A
is the cross-sectional area and P is the perimeter of the rectangular plenum, and compare it to the listed maximum diameter.

# 2.4.2 Inlet Plenum for the Indoor Unit
Install an inlet plenum when testing a coil-only indoor unit, a ducted blower coil indoor unit, or a single-package system. See Figures 7b and 7c of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 for cross-sectional dimensions, the minimum length of the inlet plenum, and the locations of the static-pressure taps for ducted blower coil indoor units and single-package systems. See Figure 8 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 for coil-only indoor units. The inlet plenum duct size shall equal the size of the inlet opening of the air-handling (blower coil) unit or furnace. For a ducted blower coil indoor unit the set up may omit the inlet plenum if an inlet airflow prevention device is installed with a straight internally unobstructed duct on its outlet end with a minimum length equal to 1.5 times the square root of the cross-sectional area of the indoor unit inlet. See section 2.5.1.2 of this appendix for requirements for the locations of static pressure taps built into the inlet airflow prevention device. For all of these arrangements, make a manifold that connects the four static-pressure taps using one of the three configurations specified in section 2.4.1.d of this appendix. Never use an inlet plenum when testing non-ducted indoor units.

# 2.5 Indoor Coil Air Property Measurements and Airflow Prevention Devices
Follow instructions for indoor coil air property measurements as described in section 2.14 of this appendix, unless otherwise instructed in this section.
a. Measure the dry-bulb temperature and water vapor content of the air entering and leaving the indoor coil. If needed, use an air sampling device to divert air to a sensor(s) that measures the water vapor content of the air. See section 5.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) for guidance on constructing an air sampling device. No part of the air sampling device or the tubing transferring the sampled air to the sensor shall be within two inches of the test chamber floor, and the transfer tubing shall be insulated. The sampling device may also be used for measurement of dry bulb temperature by transferring the sampled air to a remotely located sensor(s). The air sampling device and the remotely located temperature sensor(s) may be used to determine the entering air dry bulb temperature during any test. The air sampling device and the remotely located sensor(s) may be used to determine the leaving air dry bulb temperature for all tests except:
(1) Cyclic tests; and
(2) Frost accumulation tests.
b. Install grids of temperature sensors to measure dry bulb temperatures of both the entering and leaving airstreams of the indoor unit. These grids of dry bulb temperature sensors may be used to measure average dry bulb temperature entering and leaving the indoor unit in all cases (as an alternative to the dry bulb sensor measuring the sampled air). The leaving airstream grid is required for measurement of average dry bulb temperature leaving the indoor unit for the two special cases noted above. The grids are also required to measure the air temperature distribution of the entering and leaving
airstreams as described in sections 3.1.8 and 3.1.9 of this appendix. Two such grids may applied as a thermopile, to directly obtain the average temperature difference rather than directly measuring both entering and leaving average temperatures.
c. Use of airflow prevention devices. Use an inlet and outlet air damper box, or use an inlet upturned duct and an outlet air damper box when conducting one or both of the cyclic tests listed in sections 3.2 and 3.6 of this appendix on ducted systems. If not conducting any cyclic tests, an outlet air damper box is required when testing ducted and non-ducted heat pumps that cycle off the indoor blower during defrost cycles and there is no other means for preventing natural or forced convection through the indoor unit when the indoor blower is off. Never use an inlet damper box or an inlet upturned duct when testing non-ducted indoor units. An inlet upturned duct is a length of ductwork installed upstream from the inlet such that the indoor duct inlet opening, facing upwards, is sufficiently high to prevent natural convection transfer out of the duct. If an inlet upturned duct is used, install a dry bulb temperature sensor near the inlet opening of the indoor duct at a centerline location not higher than the lowest elevation of the duct edges at the inlet, and ensure that any pair of 5-minute averages of the dry bulb temperature at this location, measured at least every minute during the compressor OFF period of the cyclic test, do not differ by more than 1.0 °F.

# 2.5.1 Test Set-Up on the Inlet Side of the Indoor Coil: For Cases Where the Inlet Airflow Prevention Device Is Installed
a. Install an airflow prevention device as specified in section 2.5.1.1 or 2.5.1.2 of this appendix, whichever applies.
b. For an inlet damper box, locate the grid of entering air dry-bulb temperature sensors, if used, and the air sampling device, or the sensor used to measure the water vapor content of the inlet air, at a location immediately upstream of the damper box inlet. For an inlet upturned duct, locate the grid of entering air dry-bulb temperature sensors, if used, and the air sampling device, or the sensor used to measure the water vapor content of the inlet air, at a location at least one foot downstream from the beginning of the insulated portion of the duct but before the static pressure measurement.

# 2.5.1.1 If the Section 2.4.2 Inlet Plenum Is Installed
Construct the airflow prevention device having a cross-sectional flow area equal to or greater than the flow area of the inlet plenum. Install the airflow prevention device upstream of the inlet plenum and construct ductwork connecting it to the inlet plenum. If needed, use an adaptor plate or a transition duct section to connect the airflow prevention device with the inlet plenum. Insulate the ductwork and inlet plenum with thermal insulation that has a nominal overall resistance (R-value) of at least 19 hr · ft
2
· °F/Btu.

# 2.5.1.2 If the Section 2.4.2 Inlet Plenum Is Not Installed
Construct the airflow prevention device having a cross-sectional flow area equal to or greater than the flow area of the air inlet of the indoor unit. Install the airflow prevention device immediately upstream of the inlet of the indoor unit. If needed, use an adaptor plate or a short transition duct section to connect the airflow prevention device with the unit's air inlet. Add static pressure taps at the center of each face of a rectangular airflow prevention device, or at four evenly distributed locations along the circumference of an oval or round airflow prevention device. Locate the pressure taps at a distance from the indoor unit inlet equal to 0.5 times the square root of the cross sectional area of the indoor unit inlet. This location must be between the damper and the inlet of the indoor unit, if a damper is used. Make a manifold that connects the four static pressure taps using one of the configurations shown in Figure 9 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). Insulate the ductwork with thermal insulation that has a nominal overall resistance (R-value) of at least 19 hr · ft
2
· °F/Btu.

# 2.5.2 Test Set-Up on the Inlet Side of the Indoor Unit: for Cases Where No Airflow Prevention Device is Installed
If using the section 2.4.2 inlet plenum and a grid of dry bulb temperature sensors, mount the grid at a location upstream of the static pressure taps described in section 2.4.2 of this appendix, preferably at the entrance plane of the inlet plenum. If the section 2.4.2 inlet plenum is not used (
i.e.
for non-ducted units) locate a grid approximately 6 inches upstream of the indoor unit inlet. In the case of a system having multiple non-ducted indoor units, do this for each indoor unit. Position an air sampling device, or the sensor used to measure the water vapor content of the inlet air, immediately upstream of the (each) entering air dry-bulb temperature sensor grid. If a grid of sensors is not used, position the entering air sampling device (or the sensor used to measure the water vapor content of the inlet air) as if the grid were present.

# 2.5.3 Indoor Coil Static Pressure Difference Measurement
Fabricate pressure taps meeting all requirements described in section 6.5.2 of
ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) and illustrated in Figure 2A of AMCA 210-2007 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3), however, if adhering strictly to the description in section 6.5.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009, the minimum pressure tap length of 2.5 times the inner diameter of Figure 2A of AMCA 210-2007 is waived. Use a differential pressure measuring instrument that is accurate to within ±0.01 inches of water and has a resolution of at least 0.01 inches of water to measure the static pressure difference between the indoor coil air inlet and outlet. Connect one side of the differential pressure instrument to the manifolded pressure taps installed in the outlet plenum. Connect the other side of the instrument to the manifolded pressure taps located in either the inlet plenum or incorporated within the airflow prevention device. For non-ducted indoor units that are tested with multiple outlet plenums, measure the static pressure within each outlet plenum relative to the surrounding atmosphere.

# 2.5.4 Test Set-Up on the Outlet Side of the Indoor Coil
a. Install an interconnecting duct between the outlet plenum described in section 2.4.1 of this appendix and the airflow measuring apparatus described below in section 2.6 of this appendix. The cross-sectional flow area of the interconnecting duct must be equal to or greater than the flow area of the outlet plenum or the common duct used when testing non-ducted units having multiple indoor coils. If needed, use adaptor plates or transition duct sections to allow the connections. To minimize leakage, tape joints within the interconnecting duct (and the outlet plenum). Construct or insulate the entire flow section with thermal insulation having a nominal overall resistance (R-value) of at least 19 hr·ft
2
· °F/Btu.
b. Install a grid(s) of dry-bulb temperature sensors inside the interconnecting duct. Also, install an air sampling device, or the sensor(s) used to measure the water vapor content of the outlet air, inside the interconnecting duct. Locate the dry-bulb temperature grid(s) upstream of the air sampling device (or the in-duct sensor(s) used to measure the water vapor content of the outlet air). Turn off the sampler fan motor during the cyclic tests. Air leaving an indoor unit that is sampled by an air sampling device for remote water-vapor-content measurement must be returned to the interconnecting duct at a location:
(1) Downstream of the air sampling device;
(2) On the same side of the outlet air damper as the air sampling device; and
(3) Upstream of the section 2.6 airflow measuring apparatus.

# 2.5.4.1 Outlet Air Damper Box Placement and Requirements
If using an outlet air damper box (see section 2.5 of this appendix), the leakage rate from the combination of the outlet plenum, the closed damper, and the duct section that connects these two components must not exceed 20 cubic feet per minute when a negative pressure of 1 inch of water column is maintained at the plenum's inlet.

# 2.5.4.2 Procedures To Minimize Temperature Maldistribution
Use these procedures if necessary to correct temperature maldistributions. Install a mixing device(s) upstream of the outlet air, dry-bulb temperature grid (but downstream of the outlet plenum static pressure taps). Use a perforated screen located between the mixing device and the dry-bulb temperature grid, with a maximum open area of 40 percent. One or both items should help to meet the maximum outlet air temperature distribution specified in section 3.1.8 of this appendix. Mixing devices are described in sections 5.3.2 and 5.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013 and section 5.2.2 of ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992) (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).

# 2.5.4.3 Minimizing Air Leakage
For small-duct, high-velocity systems, install an air damper near the end of the interconnecting duct, just prior to the transition to the airflow measuring apparatus of section 2.6 of this appendix. To minimize air leakage, adjust this damper such that the pressure in the receiving chamber of the airflow measuring apparatus is no more than 0.5 inch of water higher than the surrounding test room ambient. If applicable, in lieu of installing a separate damper, use the outlet air damper box of sections 2.5 and 2.5.4.1 of this appendix if it allows variable positioning. Also apply these steps to any conventional indoor blower unit that creates a static pressure within the receiving chamber of the airflow measuring apparatus that exceeds the test room ambient pressure by more than 0.5 inches of water column.

# 2.5.5 Dry Bulb Temperature Measurement
a. Measure dry bulb temperatures as specified in sections 4, 5.3, 6, and 7 of ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).
b. Distribute the sensors of a dry-bulb temperature grid over the entire flow area. The required minimum is 9 sensors per grid.

# 2.5.6 Water Vapor Content Measurement
Determine water vapor content by measuring dry-bulb temperature combined with
the air wet-bulb temperature, dew point temperature, or relative humidity. If used, construct and apply wet-bulb temperature sensors as specified in sections 4, 5, 6, 7.2, 7.3, and 7.4 of ASHRAE 41.6-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). The temperature sensor (wick removed) must be accurate to within ±0.2 °F. If used, apply dew point hygrometers as specified in sections 4, 5, 6, 7.1, and 7.4 of ASHRAE 41.6-2014 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). The dew point hygrometers must be accurate to within ±0.4 °F when operated at conditions that result in the evaluation of dew points above 35 °F. If used, a relative humidity (RH) meter must be accurate to within ±0.7% RH. Other means to determine the psychrometric state of air may be used as long as the measurement accuracy is equivalent to or better than the accuracy achieved from using a wet-bulb temperature sensor that meets the above specifications.

# 2.5.7 Air Damper Box Performance Requirements
If used (see section 2.5 of this appendix), the air damper box(es) must be capable of being completely opened or completely closed within 10 seconds for each action.

# 2.6 Airflow Measuring Apparatus
a. Fabricate and operate an airflow measuring apparatus as specified in section 6.2 and 6.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). Place the static pressure taps and position the diffusion baffle (settling means) relative to the chamber inlet as indicated in Figure 12 of AMCA 210-2007 and/or Figure 14 of ASHRAE 41.2-1987 (RA 1992) (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). When measuring the static pressure difference across nozzles and/or velocity pressure at nozzle throats using electronic pressure transducers and a data acquisition system, if high frequency fluctuations cause measurement variations to exceed the test tolerance limits specified in section 9.2 and Table 2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009, dampen the measurement system such that the time constant associated with response to a step change in measurement (time for the response to change 63% of the way from the initial output to the final output) is no longer than five seconds.
b. Connect the airflow measuring apparatus to the interconnecting duct section described in section 2.5.4 of this appendix. See sections 6.1.1, 6.1.2, and 6.1.4, and Figures 1, 2, and 4 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009; and Figures D1, D2, and D4 of AHRI 210/240-2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) for illustrative examples of how the test apparatus may be applied within a complete laboratory set-up. Instead of following one of these examples, an alternative set-up may be used to handle the air leaving the airflow measuring apparatus and to supply properly conditioned air to the test unit's inlet. The alternative set-up, however, must not interfere with the prescribed means for measuring airflow rate, inlet and outlet air temperatures, inlet and outlet water vapor contents, and external static pressures, nor create abnormal conditions surrounding the test unit. (
Note:
Do not use an enclosure as described in section 6.1.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 when testing triple-split units.)

# 2.7 Electrical Voltage Supply
Perform all tests at the voltage specified in section 6.1.3.2 of AHRI 210/240-2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) for “Standard Rating Tests.” If either the indoor or the outdoor unit has a 208V or 200V nameplate voltage and the other unit has a 230V nameplate rating, select the voltage supply on the outdoor unit for testing. Otherwise, supply each unit with its own nameplate voltage. Measure the supply voltage at the terminals on the test unit using a volt meter that provides a reading that is accurate to within ±1.0 percent of the measured quantity.

# 2.8 Electrical Power and Energy Measurements
a. Use an integrating power (watt-hour) measuring system to determine the electrical energy or average electrical power supplied to all components of the air conditioner or heat pump (including auxiliary components such as controls, transformers, crankcase heater, integral condensate pump on non-ducted indoor units, etc.). The watt-hour measuring system must give readings that are accurate to within ±0.5 percent. For cyclic tests, this accuracy is required during both the ON and OFF cycles. Use either two different scales on the same watt-hour meter or two separate watt-hour meters. Activate the scale or meter having the lower power rating within 15 seconds after beginning an OFF cycle. Activate the scale or meter having the higher power rating within 15 seconds prior to beginning an ON cycle. For ducted blower coil systems, the ON cycle lasts from compressor ON to indoor blower OFF. For ducted coil-only systems, the ON cycle lasts from compressor ON to compressor OFF. For non-ducted units, the ON cycle lasts from indoor blower ON to indoor blower OFF. When testing air conditioners and heat pumps having a variable-speed compressor, avoid using an induction watt/watt-hour meter.
b. When performing section 3.5 and/or 3.8 cyclic tests on non-ducted units, provide instrumentation to determine the average electrical power consumption of the indoor blower motor to within ±1.0 percent. If required according to sections 3.3, 3.4, 3.7, 3.9.1 of this appendix, and/or 3.10 of this appendix, this same instrumentation requirement (to
determine the average electrical power consumption of the indoor blower motor to within ±1.0 percent) applies when testing air conditioners and heat pumps having a variable-speed constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower or a variable-speed, variable-air-volume-rate indoor blower.

# 2.9 Time Measurements
Make elapsed time measurements using an instrument that yields readings accurate to within ±0.2 percent.

# 2.10 Test Apparatus for the Secondary Space Conditioning Capacity Measurement
For all tests, use the indoor air enthalpy method to measure the unit's capacity. This method uses the test set-up specified in sections 2.4 to 2.6 of this appendix. In addition, for all steady-state tests, conduct a second, independent measurement of capacity as described in section 3.1.1 of this appendix. For split systems, use one of the following secondary measurement methods: Outdoor air enthalpy method, compressor calibration method, or refrigerant enthalpy method. For single-package units, use either the outdoor air enthalpy method or the compressor calibration method as the secondary measurement.

# 2.10.1 Outdoor Air Enthalpy Method
a. To make a secondary measurement of indoor space conditioning capacity using the outdoor air enthalpy method, do the following:
(1) Measure the electrical power consumption of the test unit;
(2) Measure the air-side capacity at the outdoor coil; and
(3) Apply a heat balance on the refrigerant cycle.
b. The test apparatus required for the outdoor air enthalpy method is a subset of the apparatus used for the indoor air enthalpy method. Required apparatus includes the following:
(1) On the outlet side, an outlet plenum containing static pressure taps (sections 2.4, 2.4.1, and 2.5.3 of this appendix),
(2) An airflow measuring apparatus (section 2.6 of this appendix),
(3) A duct section that connects these two components and itself contains the instrumentation for measuring the dry-bulb temperature and water vapor content of the air leaving the outdoor coil (sections 2.5.4, 2.5.5, and 2.5.6 of this appendix), and
(4) On the inlet side, a sampling device and temperature grid (section 2.11.b of this appendix).
c. During the free outdoor air tests described in sections 3.11.1 and 3.11.1.1 of this appendix, measure the evaporator and condenser temperatures or pressures. On both the outdoor coil and the indoor coil, solder a thermocouple onto a return bend located at or near the midpoint of each coil or at points not affected by vapor superheat or liquid subcooling. Alternatively, if the test unit is not sensitive to the refrigerant charge, install pressure gages to the access valves or to ports created from tapping into the suction and discharge lines according to sections 7.4.2 and 8.2.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009. Use this alternative approach when testing a unit charged with a zeotropic refrigerant having a temperature glide in excess of 1 °F at the specified test conditions.

# 2.10.2 Compressor Calibration Method
Measure refrigerant pressures and temperatures to determine the evaporator superheat and the enthalpy of the refrigerant that enters and exits the indoor coil. Determine refrigerant flow rate or, when the superheat of the refrigerant leaving the evaporator is less than 5 °F, total capacity from separate calibration tests conducted under identical operating conditions. When using this method, install instrumentation and measure refrigerant properties according to section 7.4.2 and 8.2.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). If removing the refrigerant before applying refrigerant lines and subsequently recharging, use the steps in 7.4.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 in addition to the methods of section 2.2.5 of this appendix to confirm the refrigerant charge. Use refrigerant temperature and pressure measuring instruments that meet the specifications given in sections 5.1.1 and 5.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009.

# 2.10.3 Refrigerant Enthalpy Method
For this method, calculate space conditioning capacity by determining the refrigerant enthalpy change for the indoor coil and directly measuring the refrigerant flow rate. Use section 7.5.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) for the requirements for this method, including the additional instrumentation requirements, and information on placing the flow meter and a sight glass. Use refrigerant temperature, pressure, and flow measuring instruments that meet the specifications given in sections 5.1.1, 5.2, and 5.5.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009. Refrigerant flow measurement device(s), if used, must be either elevated at least two feet from the test chamber floor or placed upon insulating material having a total thermal resistance of at least R-12 and extending at least one foot laterally beyond each side of the device(s)' exposed surfaces.

# 2.11 Measurement of Test Room Ambient Conditions
Follow instructions for setting up air sampling device and aspirating psychrometer as
described in section 2.14 of this appendix, unless otherwise instructed in this section.
a. If using a test set-up where air is ducted directly from the conditioning apparatus to the indoor coil inlet (see Figure 2, Loop Air-Enthalpy Test Method Arrangement, of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3)), add instrumentation to permit measurement of the indoor test room dry-bulb temperature.
b. On the outdoor side, use one of the following two approaches, except that approach (1) is required for all evaporatively-cooled units and units that transfer condensate to the outdoor unit for evaporation using condenser heat.
(1) Use sampling tree air collection on all air-inlet surfaces of the outdoor unit.
(2) Use sampling tree air collection on one or more faces of the outdoor unit and demonstrate air temperature uniformity as follows. Install a grid of evenly-distributed thermocouples on each air-permitting face on the inlet of the outdoor unit. Install the thermocouples on the air sampling device, locate them individually or attach them to a wire structure. If not installed on the air sampling device, install the thermocouple grid 6 to 24 inches from the unit. The thermocouples shall be evenly spaced across the coil inlet surface and be installed to avoid sampling of discharge air or blockage of air recirculation. The grid of thermocouples must provide at least 16 measuring points per face or one measurement per square foot of inlet face area, whichever is less. This grid must be constructed and used as per section 5.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). The maximum difference between the average temperatures measured during the test period of any two pairs of these individual thermocouples located at any of the faces of the inlet of the outdoor unit, must not exceed 2.0 °F, otherwise approach (1) must be used.
The air sampling devices shall be located at the geometric center of each side; the branches may be oriented either parallel or perpendicular to the longer edges of the air inlet area. The air sampling devices in the outdoor air inlet location shall be sized such that they cover at least 75% of the face area of the side of the coil that they are measuring.
Air distribution at the test facility point of supply to the unit shall be reviewed and may require remediation prior to the beginning of testing. Mixing fans can be used to ensure adequate air distribution in the test room. If used, mixing fans shall be oriented such that they are pointed away from the air intake so that the mixing fan exhaust does not affect the outdoor coil air volume rate. Particular attention should be given to prevent the mixing fans from affecting (enhancing or limiting) recirculation of condenser fan exhaust air back through the unit. Any fan used to enhance test room air mixing shall not cause air velocities in the vicinity of the test unit to exceed 500 feet per minute.
The air sampling device may be larger than the face area of the side being measured, however care shall be taken to prevent discharge air from being sampled. If an air sampling device dimension extends beyond the inlet area of the unit, holes shall be blocked in the air sampling device to prevent sampling of discharge air. Holes can be blocked to reduce the region of coverage of the intake holes both in the direction of the trunk axis or perpendicular to the trunk axis. For intake hole region reduction in the direction of the trunk axis, block holes of one or more adjacent pairs of branches (the branches of a pair connect opposite each other at the same trunk location) at either the outlet end or the closed end of the trunk. For intake hole region reduction perpendicular to the trunk axis, block off the same number of holes on each branch on both sides of the trunk.
A maximum of four (4) air sampling devices shall be connected to each aspirating psychrometer. In order to proportionately divide the flow stream for multiple air sampling devices for a given aspirating psychrometer, the tubing or conduit conveying sampled air to the psychrometer shall be of equivalent lengths for each air sampling device. Preferentially, the air sampling device should be hard connected to the aspirating psychrometer, but if space constraints do not allow this, the assembly shall have a means of allowing a flexible tube to connect the air sampling device to the aspirating psychrometer. The tubing or conduit shall be insulated and routed to prevent heat transfer to the air stream. Any surface of the air conveying tubing in contact with surrounding air at a different temperature than the sampled air shall be insulated with thermal insulation with a nominal thermal resistance (R-value) of at least 19 hr · ft
2
· °F/Btu. Alternatively the conduit may have lower thermal resistance if additional sensor(s) are used to measure dry bulb temperature at the outlet of each air sampling device. No part of the air sampling device or the tubing conducting the sampled air to the sensors shall be within two inches of the test chamber floor.
Pairs of measurements (
e.g.,
dry bulb temperature and wet bulb temperature) used to determine water vapor content of sampled air shall be measured in the same location.

# 2.12 Measurement of Indoor Blower Speed
When required, measure fan speed using a revolution counter, tachometer, or stroboscope that gives readings accurate to within ±1.0 percent.

# 2.13 Measurement of Barometric Pressure
Determine the average barometric pressure during each test. Use an instrument that meets the requirements specified in section 5.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).

# 2.14 Air Sampling Device and Aspirating Psychrometer Requirements
Air temperature measurements shall be made in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013, unless otherwise instructed in this section.

# 2.14.1 Air Sampling Device Requirements
The air sampling device is intended to draw in a sample of the air at the critical locations of a unit under test. It shall be constructed of stainless steel, plastic or other suitable, durable materials. It shall have a main flow trunk tube with a series of branch tubes connected to the trunk tube. Holes shall be on the side of the sampler facing the upstream direction of the air source. Other sizes and rectangular shapes can be used, and shall be scaled accordingly with the following guidelines:
(1) Minimum hole density of 6 holes per square foot of area to be sampled
(2) Sampler branch tube pitch (spacing) of 6 ± 3 in
(3) Manifold trunk to branch diameter ratio having a minimum of 3:1 ratio
(4) Hole pitch (spacing) shall be equally distributed over the branch (
1/2
pitch from the closed end to the nearest hole)
(5) Maximum individual hole to branch diameter ratio of 1:2 (1:3 preferred)
The minimum average velocity through the air sampling device holes shall be 2.5 ft/s as determined by evaluating the sum of the open area of the holes as compared to the flow area in the aspirating psychrometer.

# 2.14.2 Aspirating Psychrometer
The psychrometer consists of a flow section and a fan to draw air through the flow section and measures an average value of the sampled air stream. At a minimum, the flow section shall have a means for measuring the dry bulb temperature (typically, a resistance temperature device (RTD) and a means for measuring the humidity (RTD with wetted sock, chilled mirror hygrometer, or relative humidity sensor). The aspirating psychrometer shall include a fan that either can be adjusted manually or automatically to maintain required velocity across the sensors.
The psychrometer shall be made from suitable material which may be plastic (such as polycarbonate), aluminum or other metallic materials. All psychrometers for a given system being tested, shall be constructed of the same material. Psychrometers shall be designed such that radiant heat from the motor (for driving the fan that draws sampled air through the psychrometer) does not affect sensor measurements. For aspirating psychrometers, velocity across the wet bulb sensor shall be 1000 ± 200 ft/min. For all other psychrometers, velocity shall be as specified by the sensor manufacturer.

# 3. Testing Procedures

# 3.1 General Requirements
If, during the testing process, an equipment set-up adjustment is made that would have altered the performance of the unit during any already completed test, then repeat all tests affected by the adjustment. For cyclic tests, instead of maintaining an air volume rate, for each airflow nozzle, maintain the static pressure difference or velocity pressure during an ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the steady-state test conducted at the same test conditions.
Use the testing procedures in this section to collect the data used for calculating
(1) Performance metrics for central air conditioners and heat pumps during the cooling season;
(2) Performance metrics for heat pumps during the heating season; and
(3) Power consumption metric(s) for central air conditioners and heat pumps during the off mode season(s).

# 3.1.1 Primary and Secondary Test Methods
For all tests, use the indoor air enthalpy method test apparatus to determine the unit's space conditioning capacity. The procedure and data collected, however, differ slightly depending upon whether the test is a steady-state test, a cyclic test, or a frost accumulation test. The following sections described these differences. For the full-capacity cooling-mode test and (for a heat pump) the full-capacity heating-mode test, use one of the acceptable secondary methods specified in section 2.10 of this appendix to determine indoor space conditioning capacity. Calculate this secondary check of capacity according to section 3.11 of this appendix. The two capacity measurements must agree to within 6 percent to constitute a valid test. For this capacity comparison, use the Indoor Air Enthalpy Method capacity that is calculated in section 7.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) (and, if testing a coil-only system, compare capacities before making the after-test fan heat adjustments described in section 3.3, 3.4, 3.7, and 3.10 of this appendix). However, include the appropriate section 3.3 to 3.5 and 3.7 to 3.10 fan heat adjustments within the indoor air enthalpy method capacities used for the section 4 seasonal calculations of this appendix.

# 3.1.2 Manufacturer-Provided Equipment Overrides
Where needed, the manufacturer must provide a means for overriding the controls of the test unit so that the compressor(s) operates at the specified speed or capacity and the indoor blower operates at the specified speed or delivers the specified air volume rate.

# 3.1.3 Airflow Through the Outdoor Coil
For all tests, meet the requirements given in section 6.1.3.4 of AHRI 210/240-2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) when obtaining the airflow through the outdoor coil.

# 3.1.3.1 Double-Ducted
For products intended to be installed with the outdoor airflow ducted, the unit shall be installed with outdoor coil ductwork installed per manufacturer installation instructions and shall operate between 0.10 and 0.15 in H
2
O external static pressure. External static pressure measurements shall be made in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 section 6.4 and 6.5.

# 3.1.4 Airflow Through the Indoor Coil
Airflow setting(s) shall be determined before testing begins. Unless otherwise specified within this or its subsections, no changes shall be made to the airflow setting(s) after initiation of testing.

# 3.1.4.1 Cooling Full-Load Air Volume Rate

# 3.1.4.1.1. Cooling Full-Load Air Volume Rate for Ducted Units
Identify the certified cooling full-load air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified Cooling full-load air volume rate, use a value equal to the certified cooling capacity of the unit times 400 scfm per 12,000 Btu/h. If there are no instructions for setting fan speed or controls, use the as-shipped settings. Use the following procedure to confirm and, if necessary, adjust the Cooling full-load air volume rate and the fan speed or control settings to meet each test procedure requirement:
a. For all ducted blower coil systems, except those having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower:
Step (1) Operate the unit under conditions specified for the A (for single-stage units) or A
2
test using the certified fan speed or controls settings, and adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to achieve the certified Cooling full-load air volume rate;
Step (2) Measure the external static pressure;
Step (3) If this external static pressure is equal to or greater than the applicable minimum external static pressure cited in Table 4, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If this external static pressure is not equal to or greater than the applicable minimum external static pressure cited in Table 4, proceed to step 4 of this section;
Step (4) Increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until either
(i) The applicable Table 4 minimum is equaled or
(ii) The measured air volume rate equals 90 percent or less of the Cooling full-load air volume rate, whichever occurs first;
Step (5) If the conditions of step 4 (i) of this section occur first, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If the conditions of step 4 (ii) of this section occur first, proceed to step 6 of this section;
Step (6) Make an incremental change to the setup of the indoor blower (
e.g.
, next highest fan motor pin setting, next highest fan motor speed) and repeat the evaluation process beginning above, at step 1 of this section. If the indoor blower setup cannot be further changed, increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the applicable Table 4 minimum is equaled; proceed to step 7 of this section;
Step (7) The airflow constraints have been satisfied. Use the measured air volume rate as the Cooling full-load air volume rate. Use the final fan speed or control settings for all tests that use the Cooling full-load air volume rate.
b. For ducted blower coil systems with a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower. For all tests that specify the Cooling full-load air volume rate, obtain an external static pressure as close to (but not less than) the applicable Table 4 value that does not cause automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined as follows, greater than 10 percent.
ER05JA17.008
where:
Q
max
= maximum measured airflow value
Q
min
= minimum measured airflow value
Q
Var
= airflow variance, percent
Additional test steps as described in section 3.3.(e) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. For coil-only indoor units. For the A or A
2
Test, (exclusively), the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly must not exceed 0.30 inches of water. If this pressure drop is exceeded, reduce the air volume rate until the measured pressure drop equals the specified maximum. Use this reduced air volume rate for all tests that require the Cooling full-load air volume rate.
Table 4—Minimum External Static Pressure for Ducted Blower Coil Systems
Rated Cooling
1
or Heating
2
Capacity
(Btu/h)
Minimum external resistance
3
(Inches of water)
Small-duct,
high-velocity
systems
4
5
All other
systems
Up Thru 28,800
1.10
0.10
29,000 to 42,500
1.15
0.15
43,000 and Above
1.20
0.20
1
For air conditioners and air-conditioning heat pumps, the value certified by the manufacturer for the unit's cooling capacity when operated at the
A
or
A
2
Test conditions.
2
For heating-only heat pumps, the value certified by the manufacturer for the unit's heating capacity when operated at the
H1
or
H1
2
Test conditions.
3
For ducted units tested without an air filter installed, increase the applicable tabular value by 0.08 inches of water.
4
See section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions, to determine if the equipment qualifies as a small-duct, high-velocity system.
5
If a closed-loop, air-enthalpy test apparatus is used on the indoor side, limit the resistance to airflow on the inlet side of the blower coil indoor unit to a maximum value of 0.1 inch of water. Impose the balance of the airflow resistance on the outlet side of the indoor blower.
d. For ducted systems having multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, obtain the full-load air volume rate with all indoor blowers operating unless prevented by the controls of the unit. In such cases, turn on the maximum number of indoor blowers permitted by the unit's controls. Where more than one option exists for meeting this “on” indoor blower requirement, which indoor blower(s) are turned on must match that specified in the certification report. Conduct section 3.1.4.1.1 setup steps for each indoor blower separately. If two or more indoor blowers are connected to a common duct as per section 2.4.1 of this appendix, temporarily divert their air volume to the test room when confirming or adjusting the setup configuration of individual indoor blowers. The allocation of the system's full-load air volume rate assigned to each “on” indoor blower must match that specified by the manufacturer in the certification report.

# 3.1.4.1.2. Cooling Full-Load Air Volume Rate for Non-Ducted Units
For non-ducted units, the Cooling full-load air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit is operated at an external static pressure of zero inches of water.

# 3.1.4.2 Cooling Minimum Air Volume Rate
Identify the certified cooling minimum air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified cooling minimum air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate the target external static pressure and follow instructions a, b, c, d, or e below. The target external static pressure, ΔP
st__i
, for any test “i” with a specified air volume rate not equal to the Cooling full-load air volume rate is determined as follows:
ER05JA17.009
where:
ΔP
st__i
= target minimum external static pressure for test i;
ΔP
st__full
= minimum external static pressure for test A or A
2
(Table 4);
Q
i
= air volume rate for test i; and
Q
full
= Cooling full-load air volume rate as measured after setting and/or adjustment as described in section 3.1.4.1.1 of this appendix.
a. For a ducted blower coil system without a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as follows:
Step (1) Operate the unit under conditions specified for the B1 test using the certified fan speed or controls settings, and adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to achieve the certified cooling minimum air volume rate;
Step (2) Measure the external static pressure;
Step (3) If this pressure is equal to or greater than the minimum external static pressure computed above, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If this pressure is not equal to or greater than the minimum external static pressure computed above, proceed to step 4 of this section;
Step (4) Increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until either
(i) The pressure is equal to the minimum external static pressure computed above or
(ii) The measured air volume rate equals 90 percent or less of the cooling minimum air volume rate, whichever occurs first;
Step (5) If the conditions of step 4 (i) of this section occur first, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If the conditions of step 4 (ii) of this section occur first, proceed to step 6 of this section;
Step (6) Make an incremental change to the setup of the indoor blower (
e.g.,
next highest fan motor pin setting, next highest fan motor speed) and repeat the evaluation process beginning above, at step 1 of this section. If the indoor blower setup cannot be further changed, increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until it equals the minimum external static pressure computed above; proceed to step 7 of this section;
Step (7) The airflow constraints have been satisfied. Use the measured air volume rate as the cooling minimum air volume rate. Use the final fan speed or control settings for all tests that use the cooling minimum air volume rate.
b. For ducted units with constant-air-volume indoor blowers, conduct all tests that specify the cooling minimum air volume rate—(
i.e.
, the A
1
, B
1
, C
1
, F
1
, and G
1
Tests)—at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.3(e) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. For ducted two-capacity coil-only systems, the cooling minimum air volume rate is the higher of (1) the rate specified by the installation instructions included with the unit by the manufacturer or (2) 75 percent of the cooling full-load air volume rate. During the laboratory tests on a coil-only (fanless) system, obtain this cooling minimum air volume rate regardless of the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly.
d. For non-ducted units, the cooling minimum air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the indoor blower setting used at low compressor capacity (two-capacity system) or minimum compressor speed (variable-speed system). For units having a single-speed compressor and a variable-speed variable-air-volume-rate indoor blower, use the lowest fan setting allowed for cooling.
e. For ducted systems having multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, operate the indoor blowers such that the lowest air volume rate allowed by the unit's controls is obtained when operating the lone single-speed compressor or when operating at low compressor capacity while meeting the requirements of section 2.2.3.b of this appendix for the minimum number of blowers that must be turned off. Using the target external static pressure and the certified air volume rates, follow the procedures described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix if the indoor blowers are not constant-air-volume indoor blowers or as described in section 3.1.4.2.b of this appendix if the indoor blowers are constant-air-volume indoor blowers. The sum of the individual “on” indoor blowers' air volume rates is the cooling minimum air volume rate for the system.

# 3.1.4.3 Cooling Intermediate Air Volume Rate
Identify the certified cooling intermediate air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified cooling intermediate air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling full load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate target
minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix, and set the air volume rate as follows.
a. For a ducted blower coil system without a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.
b. For a ducted blower coil system with a constant-air-volume indoor blower, conduct the E
V
Test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.3(e) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. For non-ducted units, the cooling intermediate air volume rate is the air volume rate that results when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the fan speed selected by the controls of the unit for the E
V
Test conditions.

# 3.1.4.4 Heating Full-Load Air Volume Rate

# 3.1.4.4.1. Ducted Heat Pumps Where the Heating and Cooling Full-Load Air Volume Rates Are the Same
a. Use the Cooling full-load air volume rate as the heating full-load air volume rate for:
(1) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, and that operate at the same airflow-control setting during both the A (or A
2
) and the H1 (or H1
2
) Tests;
(2) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps with constant-air-flow indoor blowers that provide the same air flow for the A (or A
2
) and the H1 (or H1
2
) Tests; and
(3) Ducted heat pumps that are tested with a coil-only indoor unit (except two-capacity northern heat pumps that are tested only at low capacity cooling—see section 3.1.4.4.2 of this appendix).
b. For heat pumps that meet the above criteria “1” and “3,” no minimum requirements apply to the measured external or internal, respectively, static pressure. Use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the Cooling full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full-load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. For heat pumps that meet the above criterion “2,” test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than, the same Table 4 minimum external static pressure as was specified for the A (or A
2
) cooling mode test. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

# 3.1.4.4.2. Ducted Heat Pumps Where the Heating and Cooling Full-Load Air Volume Rates Are Different Due to Changes in Indoor Blower Operation,
i.e.

# Speed Adjustment by the System Controls
Identify the certified heating full-load air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating full-load air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix and set the air volume rate as follows.
a. For ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.
b. For ducted heat pumps tested with constant-air-volume indoor blowers installed, conduct all tests that specify the heating full-load air volume rate at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. When testing ducted, two-capacity blower coil system northern heat pumps (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), use the appropriate approach of the above two cases. For coil-only system northern heat pumps, the heating full-load air volume rate is the lesser of the rate specified by the manufacturer in the installation instructions included with the unit or 133 percent of the cooling full-load air volume rate. For this latter case, obtain the heating full-load air volume rate regardless of the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly.
d. For ducted systems having multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, obtain the heating full-load air volume rate using the same “on” indoor blowers as used for the Cooling full-load air volume rate. Using the target external static pressure and
the certified air volume rates, follow the procedures as described in section 3.1.4.4.2.a of this appendix if the indoor blowers are not constant-air-volume indoor blowers or as described in section 3.1.4.4.2.b of this appendix if the indoor blowers are constant-air-volume indoor blowers. The sum of the individual “on” indoor blowers' air volume rates is the heating full load air volume rate for the system.

# 3.1.4.4.3. Ducted Heating-Only Heat Pumps
Identify the certified heating full-load air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating full-load air volume rate, use a value equal to the certified heating capacity of the unit times 400 scfm per 12,000 Btu/h. If there are no instructions for setting fan speed or controls, use the as-shipped settings.
a. For all ducted heating-only blower coil system heat pumps, except those having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower. Conduct the following steps only during the first test, the H1 or H1
2
Test:
Step (1) Adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to achieve the certified heating full-load air volume rate.
Step (2) Measure the external static pressure.
Step (3) If this pressure is equal to or greater than the Table 4 minimum external static pressure that applies given the heating-only heat pump's rated heating capacity, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If this pressure is not equal to or greater than the applicable Table 4 minimum external static pressure, proceed to step 4 of this section;
Step (4) Increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until either (i) the pressure is equal to the applicable Table 4 minimum external static pressure or (ii) the measured air volume rate equals 90 percent or less of the heating full-load air volume rate, whichever occurs first;
Step (5) If the conditions of step 4(i) of this section occur first, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If the conditions of step 4(ii) of this section occur first, proceed to step 6 of this section;
Step (6) Make an incremental change to the setup of the indoor blower (
e.g.,
next highest fan motor pin setting, next highest fan motor speed) and repeat the evaluation process beginning above, at step 1 of this section. If the indoor blower setup cannot be further changed, increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until it equals the applicable Table 4 minimum external static pressure; proceed to step 7 of this section;
Step (7) The airflow constraints have been satisfied. Use the measured air volume rate as the heating full-load air volume rate. Use the final fan speed or control settings for all tests that use the heating full-load air volume rate.
b. For ducted heating-only blower coil system heat pumps having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower. For all tests that specify the heating full-load air volume rate, obtain an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than, the applicable Table 4 minimum. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. For ducted heating-only coil-only system heat pumps in the H1 or H1
2
Test, (exclusively), the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly must not exceed 0.30 inches of water. If this pressure drop is exceeded, reduce the air volume rate until the measured pressure drop equals the specified maximum. Use this reduced air volume rate for all tests that require the heating full-load air volume rate.

# 3.1.4.4.4. Non-Ducted Heat Pumps, Including Non-Ducted Heating-Only Heat Pumps
For non-ducted heat pumps, the heating full-load air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water.

# 3.1.4.5 Heating Minimum Air Volume Rate

# 3.1.4.5.1. Ducted Heat Pumps Where the Heating and Cooling Minimum Air Volume Rates Are the Same
a. Use the cooling minimum air volume rate as the heating minimum air volume rate for:
(1) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, and that operate at the same airflow-control setting during both the A
1
and the H1
1
tests;
(2) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps with constant-air-flow indoor blowers installed that provide the same air flow for the A
1
and the H1
1
Tests; and
(3) Ducted coil-only system heat pumps.
b. For heat pumps that meet the above criteria “1” and “3,” no minimum requirements apply to the measured external or internal, respectively, static pressure. Use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling minimum air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling minimum air volume
rate obtained in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. For heat pumps that meet the above criterion “2,” test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than, the same target minimum external static pressure as was specified for the A
1
cooling mode test. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

# 3.1.4.5.2. Ducted Heat Pumps Where the Heating and Cooling Minimum Air Volume Rates Are Different Due to Changes in Indoor Blower Operation,
i.e.

# Speed Adjustment by the System Controls
Identify the certified heating minimum air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating minimum air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling minimum air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling minimum air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate the target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.
a. For ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.
b. For ducted heat pumps tested with constant-air-volume indoor blowers installed, conduct all tests that specify the heating minimum air volume rate—(
i.e.,
the H0
1
, H1
1
, H2
1
, and H3
1
Tests)—at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower while being as close to, but not less than the air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1.c of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. For ducted two-capacity blower coil system northern heat pumps, use the appropriate approach of the above two cases.
d. For ducted two-capacity coil-only system heat pumps, use the cooling minimum air volume rate as the heating minimum air volume rate. For ducted two-capacity coil-only system northern heat pumps, use the cooling full-load air volume rate as the heating minimum air volume rate. For ducted two-capacity heating-only coil-only system heat pumps, the heating minimum air volume rate is the higher of the rate specified by the manufacturer in the test setup instructions included with the unit or 75 percent of the heating full-load air volume rate. During the laboratory tests on a coil-only system, obtain the heating minimum air volume rate without regard to the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly.
e. For non-ducted heat pumps, the heating minimum air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the indoor blower setting used at low compressor capacity (two-capacity system) or minimum compressor speed (variable-speed system). For units having a single-speed compressor and a variable-speed, variable-air-volume-rate indoor blower, use the lowest fan setting allowed for heating.
f. For ducted systems with multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, obtain the heating minimum air volume rate using the same “on” indoor blowers as used for the cooling minimum air volume rate. Using the target external static pressure and the certified air volume rates, follow the procedures as described in section 3.1.4.5.2.a of this appendix if the indoor blowers are not constant-air-volume indoor blowers or as described in section 3.1.4.5.2.b of this appendix if the indoor blowers are constant-air-volume indoor blowers. The sum of the individual “on” indoor blowers' air volume rates is the heating full-load air volume rate for the system.

# 3.1.4.6 Heating Intermediate Air Volume Rate
Identify the certified heating intermediate air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating intermediate air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the heating full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. Calculate the target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.
a. For ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.
b. For ducted heat pumps tested with constant-air-volume indoor blowers installed, conduct the H2
V
Test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q
Var
, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10
percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.
c. For non-ducted heat pumps, the heating intermediate air volume rate is the air volume rate that results when the heat pump operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the fan speed selected by the controls of the unit for the H2
V
Test conditions.

# 3.1.4.7 Heating Nominal Air Volume Rate
The manufacturer must specify the heating nominal air volume rate and the instructions for setting fan speed or controls. Calculate target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. Make adjustments as described in section 3.1.4.6 of this appendix for heating intermediate air volume rate so that the target minimum external static pressure is met or exceeded.

# 3.1.5 Indoor Test Room Requirement When the Air Surrounding the Indoor Unit Is Not Supplied From the Same Source as the Air Entering the Indoor Unit
If using a test set-up where air is ducted directly from the air reconditioning apparatus to the indoor coil inlet (see Figure 2, Loop Air-Enthalpy Test Method Arrangement, of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3)), maintain the dry bulb temperature within the test room within ±5.0 °F of the applicable sections 3.2 and 3.6 dry bulb temperature test condition for the air entering the indoor unit. Dew point shall be within 2 °F of the required inlet conditions.

# 3.1.6 Air Volume Rate Calculations
For all steady-state tests and for frost accumulation (H2, H2
1
, H2
2
, H2
V
) tests, calculate the air volume rate through the indoor coil as specified in sections 7.7.2.1 and 7.7.2.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009. When using the outdoor air enthalpy method, follow sections 7.7.2.1 and 7.7.2.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 to calculate the air volume rate through the outdoor coil. To express air volume rates in terms of standard air, use:
ER05JA17.010
Where:
V
s
= air volume rate of standard (dry) air, (ft
3
/min)
da
V
mx
= air volume rate of the air-water vapor mixture, (ft
3
/min)
mx
v
n
′ = specific volume of air-water vapor mixture at the nozzle, ft
3
per lbm of the air-water vapor mixture
W
n
= humidity ratio at the nozzle, lbm of water vapor per lbm of dry air
0.075 = the density associated with standard (dry) air, (lbm/ft
3
)
v
n
= specific volume of the dry air portion of the mixture evaluated at the dry-bulb temperature, vapor content, and barometric pressure existing at the nozzle, ft
3
per lbm of dry air.

# Note:
In the first printing of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009, the second IP equation for Q
mi
should read
ER05JA17.011

# 3.1.7 Test Sequence
Before making test measurements used to calculate performance, operate the equipment for the “break-in” period specified in the certification report, which may not exceed 20 hours. Each compressor of the unit must undergo this “break-in” period. When testing a ducted unit (except if a heating-only heat pump), conduct the A or A
2
Test first to establish the cooling full-load air volume rate. For ducted heat pumps where the heating and cooling full-load air volume rates are different, make the first heating mode test one that requires the heating full-load air volume rate. For ducted heating-only heat pumps, conduct the H1 or H1
2
Test first to establish the heating full-load air volume rate. When conducting a cyclic test, always conduct it immediately after the steady-state test that requires the same test conditions. For variable-speed systems, the
first test using the cooling minimum air volume rate should precede the E
V
Test, and the first test using the heating minimum air volume rate must precede the H2
V
Test. The test laboratory makes all other decisions on the test sequence.

# 3.1.8 Requirement for the Air Temperature Distribution Leaving the Indoor Coil
For at least the first cooling mode test and the first heating mode test, monitor the temperature distribution of the air leaving the indoor coil using the grid of individual sensors described in sections 2.5 and 2.5.4 of this appendix. For the 30-minute data collection interval used to determine capacity, the maximum spread among the outlet dry bulb temperatures from any data sampling must not exceed 1.5 °F. Install the mixing devices described in section 2.5.4.2 of this appendix to minimize the temperature spread.

# 3.1.9 Requirement for the Air Temperature Distribution Entering the Outdoor Coil
Monitor the temperatures of the air entering the outdoor coil using air sampling devices and/or temperature sensor grids, maintaining the required tolerances, if applicable, as described in section 2.11 of this appendix.

# 3.1.10 Control of Auxiliary Resistive Heating Elements
Except as noted, disable heat pump resistance elements used for heating indoor air at all times, including during defrost cycles and if they are normally regulated by a heat comfort controller. For heat pumps equipped with a heat comfort controller, enable the heat pump resistance elements only during the below-described, short test. For single-speed heat pumps covered under section 3.6.1 of this appendix, the short test follows the H1 or, if conducted, the H1C Test. For two-capacity heat pumps and heat pumps covered under section 3.6.2 of this appendix, the short test follows the H1
2
Test. Set the heat comfort controller to provide the maximum supply air temperature. With the heat pump operating and while maintaining the heating full-load air volume rate, measure the temperature of the air leaving the indoor-side beginning 5 minutes after activating the heat comfort controller. Sample the outlet dry-bulb temperature at regular intervals that span 5 minutes or less. Collect data for 10 minutes, obtaining at least 3 samples. Calculate the average outlet temperature over the 10-minute interval, T
CC.

# 3.2 Cooling Mode Tests for Different Types of Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps

# 3.2.1 Tests for a System Having a Single-Speed Compressor and Fixed Cooling Air Volume Rate
This set of tests is for single-speed-compressor units that do not have a cooling minimum air volume rate or a cooling intermediate air volume rate that is different than the cooling full load air volume rate. Conduct two steady-state wet coil tests, the A and B Tests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state C Test and the cyclic D Test, to determine the cooling mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C
D
c
. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested C
D
c
that exceeds the default C
D
c
or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign C
D
c
the default value of 0.25 (for outdoor units with no match) or 0.20 (for all other systems). Table 5 specifies test conditions for these four tests.
Table 5—Cooling Mode Test Conditions for Units Having a Single-Speed Compressor and a Fixed Cooling Air Volume Rate
Test description
Air entering indoor unit
temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Air entering outdoor unit
temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Cooling air volume rate
A Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
95
1
75
Cooling full-load.
2
B Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
Cooling full-load.
2
C Test—optional (steady, dry coil)
80
(
3
)
82
Cooling full-load.
2
D Test—optional (cyclic, dry coil)
80
(
3
)
82
(
4
).
1
The specified test condition only applies if the unit rejects condensate to the outdoor coil.
2
Defined in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix.
3
The entering air must have a low enough moisture content so no condensate forms on the indoor coil. (It is recommended that an indoor wet-bulb temperature of 57 °F or less be used.)
4
Maintain the airflow nozzles static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the C Test.

# 3.2.2 Tests for a Unit Having a Single-Speed Compressor Where the Indoor Section Uses a Single Variable-Speed Variable-Air-Volume Rate Indoor Blower or Multiple Indoor Blowers

# 3.2.2.1 Indoor Blower Capacity Modulation That Correlates With the Outdoor Dry Bulb Temperature or Systems With a Single Indoor Coil but Multiple Indoor Blowers
Conduct four steady-state wet coil tests: The A
2
, A
1
, B
2
, and B
1
tests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state C
1
test and the cyclic D
1
test, to determine the cooling mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C
D
c
. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested C
D
c that exceeds the default C
D
c or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign C
D
c the default value of 0.20.

# 3.2.2.2 Indoor Blower Capacity Modulation Based on Adjusting the Sensible to Total (S/T) Cooling Capacity Ratio
The testing requirements are the same as specified in section 3.2.1 of this appendix and Table 5. Use a cooling full-load air volume rate that represents a normal installation. If performed, conduct the steady-state C Test and the cyclic D Test with the unit operating in the same S/T capacity control mode as used for the B Test.
Table 6—Cooling Mode Test Conditions for Units With a Single-Speed Compressor That Meet the Section 3.2.2.1 Indoor Unit Requirements
Test description
Air entering indoor unit
temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Air entering outdoor unit
temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Cooling air volume rate
A
2
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
95
1
75
Cooling full-load.
2
A
1
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
95
1
75
Cooling minimum.
3
B
2
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
Cooling full-load.
2
B
1
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
Cooling minimum.
3
C
1
Test
4
—optional (steady, dry coil)
80
(
4
)
82
Cooling minimum.
3
D
1
Test
4
—optional (cyclic, dry coil)
80
(
4
)
82
(
5
).
1
The specified test condition only applies if the unit rejects condensate to the outdoor coil.
2
Defined in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix.
3
Defined in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.
4
The entering air must have a low enough moisture content so no condensate forms on the indoor coil. (It is recommended that an indoor wet-bulb temperature of 5 °F or less be used.)
5
Maintain the airflow nozzles static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the C
1
Test.

# 3.2.3 Tests for a Unit Having a Two-Capacity Compressor (See Section 1.2 of This Appendix, Definitions)
a. Conduct four steady-state wet coil tests: the A
2
, B
2
, B
1
, and F
1
Tests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state C
1
Test and the cyclic D
1
Test, to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C
D
c
. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested C
D
c that exceeds the default C
D
c or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign C
D
c the default value of 0.20. Table 6 specifies test conditions for these six tests.
b. For units having a variable speed indoor blower that is modulated to adjust the sensible to total (S/T) cooling capacity ratio, use cooling full-load and cooling minimum air volume rates that represent a normal installation. Additionally, if conducting the dry-coil tests, operate the unit in the same S/T capacity control mode as used for the B
1
Test.
c. Test two-capacity, northern heat pumps (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions) in the same way as a single speed heat pump with the unit operating exclusively at low compressor capacity (see section 3.2.1 of this appendix and Table 5).
d. If a two-capacity air conditioner or heat pump locks out low-capacity operation at higher outdoor temperatures, then use the two dry-coil tests, the steady-state C
2
Test and the cyclic D
2
Test, to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient that only applies to on/off cycling from high capacity, C
D
c
(k=2). If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested CD
c
(k = 2) that exceeds the default CD
c
(k = 2) or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign CD
c
(k = 2) the default value. The default C
D
c
(k=2) is the same value as determined or assigned for the low-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C
D
c
[or equivalently, C
D
c
(k=1)].
Table 7—Cooling Mode Test Conditions for Units Having a Two-Capacity Compressor
Test description
Air entering indoor unit temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Air entering outdoor unit temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Compressor
capacity
Cooling air volume rate
A
2
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
95
1
75
High
Cooling Full-Load.
2
B
2
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
High
Cooling Full-Load.
2
B
1
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
Low
Cooling Minimum.
3
C
2
Test—optional (steady, dry-coil)
80
(
4
)
82
High
Cooling Full-Load.
2
D
2
Test—optional (cyclic, dry-coil)
80
(
4
)
82
High
(
5
).
C
1
Test—optional (steady, dry-coil)
80
(
4
)
82
Low
Cooling Minimum.
3
D
1
Test—optional (cyclic, dry-coil)
80
(
4
)
82
Low
(
6
).
F
1
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
67
1
53.5
Low
Cooling Minimum.
3
1
The specified test condition only applies if the unit rejects condensate to the outdoor coil.
2
Defined in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix.
3
Defined in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.
4
The entering air must have a low enough moisture content so no condensate forms on the indoor coil. DOE recommends using an indoor air wet-bulb temperature of 57 °F or less.
5
Maintain the airflow nozzle(s) static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure or velocity as measured during the C
2
Test.
6
Maintain the airflow nozzle(s) static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure or velocity as measured during the C
1
Test.

# 3.2.4 Tests for a Unit Having a Variable-Speed Compressor
a. Conduct five steady-state wet coil tests: The A
2
, E
V
, B
2
, B
1
, and F
1
Tests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state G
1
Test and the cyclic I
1
Test, to determine the cooling mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C
D
c
. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested C
D
c that exceeds the default C
D
c or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign C
D
c the default value of 0.25. Table 8 specifies test conditions for these seven tests. The compressor shall operate at the same cooling full speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for both the A
2
and B
2
tests. The compressor shall operate at the same cooling minimum speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for the B
1
, F
1
, G
1
, and I
1
tests. Determine the cooling intermediate compressor speed cited in Table 8 using:
ER05JA17.012
where a tolerance of plus 5 percent or the next higher inverter frequency step from that calculated is allowed.
b. For units that modulate the indoor blower speed to adjust the sensible to total (S/T) cooling capacity ratio, use cooling full-load, cooling intermediate, and cooling minimum air volume rates that represent a normal installation. Additionally, if conducting the dry-coil tests, operate the unit in the same S/T capacity control mode as used for the F
1
Test.
c. For multiple-split air conditioners and heat pumps (except where noted), the following procedures supersede the above requirements: For all Table 8 tests specified for a minimum compressor speed, at least one indoor unit must be turned off. The manufacturer shall designate the particular indoor unit(s) that is turned off. The manufacturer must also specify the compressor speed used for the Table 8 E
V
Test, a cooling-mode intermediate compressor speed that falls within
1/4
and
3/4
of the difference between the full and minimum cooling-mode speeds. The manufacturer should prescribe an intermediate speed that is expected to yield the highest EER for the given E
V
Test conditions and bracketed compressor speed range. The manufacturer can designate that one or more indoor units are turned off for the E
V
Test.
Table 8—Cooling Mode Test Condition for Units Having a Variable-Speed Compressor
Test description
Air entering indoor unit
temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Air entering outdoor unit
temperature ( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Compressor speed
Cooling air
volume rate
A
2
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
95
1
75
Cooling Full
Cooling Full-Load.
2
B
2
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
Cooling Full
Cooling Full-Load.
2
E
V
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
87
1
69
Cooling Intermediate
Cooling Intermediate.
3
B
1
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
82
1
65
Cooling Minimum
Cooling Minimum.
4
F
1
Test—required (steady, wet coil)
80
67
67
1
53.5
Cooling Minimum
Cooling Minimum.
4
G
1
Test
5
—optional (steady, dry-coil)
80
(
6
)
67
Cooling Minimum
Cooling Minimum.
4
I
1
Test
5
—optional (cyclic, dry-coil)
80
(
6
)
67
Cooling Minimum
(
6
).
1
The specified test condition only applies if the unit rejects condensate to the outdoor coil.
2
Defined in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix.
3
Defined in section 3.1.4.3 of this appendix.
4
Defined in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.
5
The entering air must have a low enough moisture content so no condensate forms on the indoor coil. DOE recommends using an indoor air wet bulb temperature of 57 °F or less.
6
Maintain the airflow nozzle(s) static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the G
1
Test.

# 3.2.5 Cooling Mode Tests for Northern Heat Pumps With Triple-Capacity Compressors
Test triple-capacity, northern heat pumps for the cooling mode in the same way as specified in section 3.2.3 of this appendix for units having a two-capacity compressor.

# 3.2.6 Tests for an Air Conditioner or Heat Pump Having a Single Indoor Unit Having Multiple Indoor Blowers and Offering Two Stages of Compressor Modulation
Conduct the cooling mode tests specified in section 3.2.3 of this appendix.

# 3.3 Test Procedures for Steady-State Wet Coil Cooling Mode Tests (the A, A
2

# , A
1

# , B, B
2

# , B
1

# , E
V

# , and F
1

# Tests)
a. For the pretest interval, operate the test room reconditioning apparatus and the unit to be tested until maintaining equilibrium conditions for at least 30 minutes at the specified section 3.2 test conditions. Use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus and, if installed, the indoor blower of the test unit to obtain and then maintain the indoor air volume rate and/or external static pressure specified for the particular test. Continuously record (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions):
(1) The dry-bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor coil,
(2) The water vapor content of the air entering the indoor coil,
(3) The dry-bulb temperature of the air entering the outdoor coil, and
(4) For the section 2.2.4 of this appendix cases where its control is required, the water vapor content of the air entering the outdoor coil.
Refer to section 3.11 of this appendix for additional requirements that depend on the selected secondary test method.
b. After satisfying the pretest equilibrium requirements, make the measurements specified in Table 3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 for the indoor air enthalpy method and the user-selected secondary method. Make said Table 3 measurements at equal intervals that span 5 minutes or less. Continue data sampling until reaching a 30-minute period (
e.g.,
seven consecutive 5-minute samples) where the test tolerances specified in Table 9 are satisfied. For those continuously recorded parameters, use the entire data set from the 30-minute interval to evaluate Table 9 compliance. Determine the average electrical power consumption of the air conditioner or heat pump over the same 30-minute interval.
c. Calculate indoor-side total cooling capacity and sensible cooling capacity as specified in sections 7.3.3.1 and 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). To calculate capacity, use the averages of the measurements (
e.g.
inlet and outlet dry bulb and wet bulb temperatures measured at the psychrometers) that are continuously recorded for the same 30-minute interval used as described above to evaluate compliance with test tolerances. Do not adjust the parameters used in calculating capacity for the permitted variations in test conditions. Evaluate air enthalpies based on the measured barometric pressure. Use the values of the specific heat of air given in section 7.3.3.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) for calculation of the sensible cooling capacities. Assign the average total space cooling capacity, average sensible cooling capacity,
and electrical power consumption over the 30-minute data collection interval to the variables Q
c
k
(T), Q
sc
k
(T) and E
c
k
(T), respectively. For these three variables, replace the “T” with the nominal outdoor temperature at which the test was conducted. The superscript k is used only when testing multi-capacity units.
Use the superscript k=2 to denote a test with the unit operating at high capacity or full speed, k=1 to denote low capacity or minimum speed, and k=v to denote the intermediate speed.
d. For coil-only system tests, decrease Q
c
k
(T) by
ER05JA17.013
and increase E
c
k
(T) by,
ER05JA17.014
where V
s
is the average measured indoor air volume rate expressed in units of cubic feet per minute of standard air (scfm).
Table 9—Test Operating and Test Condition Tolerances for Section 3.3 Steady-State Wet Coil Cooling Mode Tests and Section 3.4 Dry Coil Cooling Mode Tests
Test operating
tolerance
1
Test condition
tolerance
1
Indoor dry-bulb, °F
Entering temperature
2.0
0.5
Leaving temperature
2.0
Indoor wet-bulb, °F
Entering temperature
1.0
2
0.3
Leaving temperature
2
1.0
Outdoor dry-bulb, °F
Entering temperature
2.0
0.5
Leaving temperature
3
2.0
Outdoor wet-bulb, °F
Entering temperature
1.0
4
0.3
Leaving temperature
3
1.0
External resistance to airflow, inches of water
0.05
5
0.02
Electrical voltage, % of rdg.
2.0
1.5
Nozzle pressure drop, % of rdg.
2.0
1
See section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions.
2
Only applies during wet coil tests; does not apply during steady-state, dry coil cooling mode tests.
3
Only applies when using the outdoor air enthalpy method.
4
Only applies during wet coil cooling mode tests where the unit rejects condensate to the outdoor coil.
5
Only applies when testing non-ducted units.
e. For air conditioners and heat pumps having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower, the five additional steps listed below are required if the average of the measured external static pressures exceeds the applicable sections 3.1.4 minimum (or target) external static pressure (ΔP
min
) by 0.03 inches of water or more.
(1) Measure the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor (E
fan,1
) and record the corresponding external static pressure (ΔP
1
) during or immediately following the 30-minute interval used for determining capacity.
(2) After completing the 30-minute interval and while maintaining the same test conditions, adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the external static pressure increases to approximately ΔP
1
+ (ΔP
1
−ΔP
min
).
(3) After re-establishing steady readings of the fan motor power and external static pressure, determine average values for the indoor blower power (E
fan,2
) and the external static pressure (ΔP
2
) by making measurements over a 5-minute interval.
(4) Approximate the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor at ΔP
min
using linear extrapolation:
ER05JA17.015
(5) Increase the total space cooling capacity, Q
c
k
(T), by the quantity (E
fan,1
−E
fan,min
), when expressed on a Btu/h basis. Decrease the total electrical power, E
c
k
(T), by the same fan power difference, now expressed in watts.

# 3.4 Test Procedures for the Steady-State Dry-Coil Cooling-Mode Tests (the C, C
1

# , C
2

# , and G
1

# Tests)
a. Except for the modifications noted in this section, conduct the steady-state dry coil cooling mode tests as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix for wet coil tests. Prior to recording data during the steady-state dry coil test, operate the unit at least one hour after achieving dry coil conditions. Drain the drain pan and plug the drain opening. Thereafter, the drain pan should remain completely dry.
b. Denote the resulting total space cooling capacity and electrical power derived from the test as Q
ss,dry
and E
ss,dry
. With regard to a section 3.3 deviation, do not adjust Q
ss,dry
for duct losses (
i.e.,
do not apply section 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009). In preparing for the section 3.5 cyclic tests of this appendix, record the average indoor-side air volume rate, V
, specific heat of the air, Cp,a (expressed on dry air basis), specific volume of the air at the nozzles, v′
n
, humidity ratio at the nozzles, W
n
, and either pressure difference or velocity pressure for the flow nozzles. For units having a variable-speed indoor blower (that provides either a constant or variable air volume rate) that will or may be tested during the cyclic dry coil cooling mode test with the indoor blower turned off (see section 3.5 of this appendix), include the electrical power used by the indoor blower motor among the recorded parameters from the 30-minute test.
c. If the temperature sensors used to provide the primary measurement of the indoor-side dry bulb temperature difference during the steady-state dry-coil test and the subsequent cyclic dry-coil test are different, include measurements of the latter sensors among the regularly sampled data. Beginning at the start of the 30-minute data collection period, measure and compute the indoor-side air dry-bulb temperature difference using both sets of instrumentation, ΔT (Set SS) and ΔT (Set CYC), for each equally spaced data sample. If using a consistent data sampling rate that is less than 1 minute, calculate and record minutely averages for the two temperature differences. If using a consistent sampling rate of one minute or more, calculate and record the two temperature differences from each data sample. After having recorded the seventh (i=7) set of temperature differences, calculate the following ratio using the first seven sets of values:
ER05JA17.016
Each time a subsequent set of temperature differences is recorded (if sampling more frequently than every 5 minutes), calculate F
CD
using the most recent seven sets of values. Continue these calculations until the 30-minute period is completed or until a value for F
CD
is calculated that falls outside the allowable range of 0.94-1.06. If the latter occurs, immediately suspend the test and identify the cause for the disparity in the two temperature difference measurements. Recalibration of one or both sets of instrumentation may be required. If all the values for F
CD
are within the allowable range, save the final value of the ratio from the 30-minute test as F
CD
*. If the temperature sensors used to provide the primary measurement of the indoor-side dry bulb temperature difference during the steady-state dry-coil test and the subsequent cyclic dry-coil test are the same, set F
CD
*= 1.

# 3.5 Test Procedures for the Cyclic Dry-Coil Cooling-Mode Tests (the D, D
1

# , D
2

# , and I
1

# Tests)
After completing the steady-state dry-coil test, remove the outdoor air enthalpy method test apparatus, if connected, and begin manual OFF/ON cycling of the unit's compressor. The test set-up should otherwise be identical to the set-up used during the steady-state dry coil test. When testing heat pumps, leave the reversing valve during the
compressor OFF cycles in the same position as used for the compressor ON cycles, unless automatically changed by the controls of the unit. For units having a variable-speed indoor blower, the manufacturer has the option of electing at the outset whether to conduct the cyclic test with the indoor blower enabled or disabled. Always revert to testing with the indoor blower disabled if cyclic testing with the fan enabled is unsuccessful.
a. For all cyclic tests, the measured capacity must be adjusted for the thermal mass stored in devices and connections located between measured points. Follow the procedure outlined in section 7.4.3.4.5 of ASHRAE 116-2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) to ensure any required measurements are taken.
b. For units having a single-speed or two-capacity compressor, cycle the compressor OFF for 24 minutes and then ON for 6 minutes (Δτ
cyc,dry
= 0.5 hours). For units having a variable-speed compressor, cycle the compressor OFF for 48 minutes and then ON for 12 minutes (Δτ
cyc,dry
= 1.0 hours). Repeat the OFF/ON compressor cycling pattern until the test is completed. Allow the controls of the unit to regulate cycling of the outdoor fan. If an upturned duct is used, measure the dry-bulb temperature at the inlet of the device at least once every minute and ensure that its test operating tolerance is within 1.0 °F for each compressor OFF period.
c. Sections 3.5.1 and 3.5.2 of this appendix specify airflow requirements through the indoor coil of ducted and non-ducted indoor units, respectively. In all cases, use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus (covered under section 2.6 of this appendix) along with the indoor blower of the unit, if installed and operating, to approximate a step response in the indoor coil airflow. Regulate the exhaust fan to quickly obtain and then maintain the flow nozzle static pressure difference or velocity pressure at the same value as was measured during the steady-state dry coil test. The pressure difference or velocity pressure should be within 2 percent of the value from the steady-state dry coil test within 15 seconds after airflow initiation. For units having a variable-speed indoor blower that ramps when cycling on and/or off, use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to impose a step response that begins at the initiation of ramp up and ends at the termination of ramp down.
d. For units having a variable-speed indoor blower, conduct the cyclic dry coil test using the pull-thru approach described below if any of the following occur when testing with the fan operating:
(1) The test unit automatically cycles off;
(2) Its blower motor reverses; or
(3) The unit operates for more than 30 seconds at an external static pressure that is 0.1 inches of water or more higher than the value measured during the prior steady-state test.
For the pull-thru approach, disable the indoor blower and use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to generate the specified flow nozzles static pressure difference or velocity pressure. If the exhaust fan cannot deliver the required pressure difference because of resistance created by the unpowered indoor blower, temporarily remove the indoor blower.
e. Conduct three complete compressor OFF/ON cycles with the test tolerances given in Table 10 satisfied. Calculate the degradation coefficient C
D
for each complete cycle. If all three C
D
values are within 0.02 of the average C
D
then stability has been achieved, and the highest C
D
value of these three shall be used. If stability has not been achieved, conduct additional cycles, up to a maximum of eight cycles total, until stability has been achieved between three consecutive cycles. Once stability has been achieved, use the highest C
D
value of the three consecutive cycles that establish stability. If stability has not been achieved after eight cycles, use the highest C
D
from cycle one through cycle eight, or the default C
D
, whichever is lower.
f. With regard to the Table 10 parameters, continuously record the dry-bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor and outdoor coils during periods when air flows through the respective coils. Sample the water vapor content of the indoor coil inlet air at least every 2 minutes during periods when air flows through the coil. Record external static pressure and the air volume rate indicator (either nozzle pressure difference or velocity pressure) at least every minute during the interval that air flows through the indoor coil. (These regular measurements of the airflow rate indicator are in addition to the required measurement at 15 seconds after flow initiation.) Sample the electrical voltage at least every 2 minutes beginning 30 seconds after compressor start-up. Continue until the compressor, the outdoor fan, and the indoor blower (if it is installed and operating) cycle off.
g. For ducted units, continuously record the dry-bulb temperature of the air entering (as noted above) and leaving the indoor coil. Or if using a thermopile, continuously record the difference between these two temperatures during the interval that air flows through the indoor coil. For non-ducted units, make the same dry-bulb temperature measurements beginning when the compressor cycles on and ending when indoor coil airflow ceases.
h. Integrate the electrical power over complete cycles of length Δτ
cyc,dry
. For ducted blower coil systems tested with the unit's indoor blower operating for the cycling test, integrate electrical power from indoor blower OFF to indoor blower OFF. For all other
ducted units and for non-ducted units, integrate electrical power from compressor OFF to compressor OFF. (Some cyclic tests will use the same data collection intervals to determine the electrical energy and the total space cooling. For other units, terminate data collection used to determine the electrical energy before terminating data collection used to determine total space cooling.)
Table 10—Test Operating and Test Condition Tolerances for Cyclic Dry Coil Cooling Mode Tests
Test operating tolerance
1
Test condition tolerance
1
Indoor entering dry-bulb temperature,
2
°F
2.0
0.5
Indoor entering wet-bulb temperature, °F
(
3
)
Outdoor entering dry-bulb temperature,
2
°F
2.0
0.5
External resistance to airflow,
2
inches of water
0.05
Airflow nozzle pressure difference or velocity pressure,
2
% of reading
2.0
4
2.0
Electrical voltage,
5
% of rdg
2.0
1.5
1
See section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions.
2
Applies during the interval that air flows through the indoor (outdoor) coil except for the first 30 seconds after flow initiation. For units having a variable-speed indoor blower that ramps, the tolerances listed for the external resistance to airflow apply from 30 seconds after achieving full speed until ramp down begins.
3
Shall at no time exceed a wet-bulb temperature that results in condensate forming on the indoor coil.
4
The test condition shall be the average nozzle pressure difference or velocity pressure measured during the steady-state dry coil test.
5
Applies during the interval when at least one of the following—the compressor, the outdoor fan, or, if applicable, the indoor blower—are operating except for the first 30 seconds after compressor start-up.
If the Table 10 tolerances are satisfied over the complete cycle, record the measured electrical energy consumption as e
cyc,dry
and express it in units of watt-hours. Calculate the total space cooling delivered, q
cyc,dry
, in units of Btu using,
ER05JA17.017
Where,
V
, C
p,a
, v
n
′ (or v
n
), W
n
, and F
CD
* are the values recorded during the section 3.4 dry coil steady-state test and
T
al
(τ) = dry bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor coil at time τ, °F.
T
a2
(τ) = dry bulb temperature of the air leaving the indoor coil at time τ, °F.
τ
1
= for ducted units, the elapsed time when airflow is initiated through the indoor coil; for non-ducted units, the elapsed time when the compressor is cycled on, hr.
τ
2
= the elapsed time when indoor coil airflow ceases, hr.
Adjust the total space cooling delivered, q
cyc,dry
, according to calculation method outlined in section 7.4.3.4.5 of ASHRAE 116-2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).

# 3.5.1 Procedures When Testing Ducted Systems
The automatic controls that are installed in the test unit must govern the OFF/ON cycling of the air moving equipment on the indoor side (exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus and the indoor blower of the test unit). For ducted coil-only systems rated based on using a fan time-delay relay, control the indoor coil airflow according to the OFF delay listed by the manufacturer in the certification report. For ducted units having a variable-speed indoor blower that has been disabled (and possibly removed), start and stop the indoor airflow at the same instances as if the fan were enabled. For all other ducted coil-only systems, cycle the indoor coil airflow in unison with the cycling of the compressor. If air damper boxes are used, close them on the inlet and outlet side during the OFF period. Airflow through the indoor coil should stop within 3 seconds after the automatic controls of the test unit (act to) de-energize the indoor blower. For ducted coil-only systems (excluding the special case where a variable-speed fan is temporarily removed), increase e
cyc,dry
by the quantity,
ER05JA17.018
and decrease q
cyc,dry
by,
ER05JA17.019
where V
s
is the average indoor air volume rate from the section 3.4 dry coil steady-state test and is expressed in units of cubic feet per minute of standard air (scfm). For units having a variable-speed indoor blower that is disabled during the cyclic test, increase e
cyc,dry
and decrease q
cyc,dry
based on:
a. The product of [τ
2
-
τ1
] and the indoor blower power measured during or following the dry coil steady-state test; or,
b. The following algorithm if the indoor blower ramps its speed when cycling.
(1) Measure the electrical power consumed by the variable-speed indoor blower at a minimum of three operating conditions: At the speed/air volume rate/external static pressure that was measured during the steady-state test, at operating conditions associated with the midpoint of the ramp-up interval, and at conditions associated with the midpoint of the ramp-down interval. For these measurements, the tolerances on the airflow volume or the external static pressure are the same as required for the section 3.4 steady-state test.
(2) For each case, determine the fan power from measurements made over a minimum of 5 minutes.
(3) Approximate the electrical energy consumption of the indoor blower if it had operated during the cyclic test using all three power measurements. Assume a linear profile during the ramp intervals. The manufacturer must provide the durations of the ramp-up and ramp-down intervals. If the test setup instructions included with the unit by the manufacturer specifies a ramp interval that exceeds 45 seconds, use a 45-second ramp interval nonetheless when estimating the fan energy.

# 3.5.2 Procedures When Testing Non-Ducted Indoor Units
Do not use airflow prevention devices when conducting cyclic tests on non-ducted indoor units. Until the last OFF/ON compressor cycle, airflow through the indoor coil must cycle off and on in unison with the compressor. For the last OFF/ON compressor cycle—the one used to determine e
cyc,dry
and q
cyc,dry
—use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus and the indoor blower of the test unit to have indoor airflow start 3 minutes prior to compressor cut-on and end three minutes after compressor cutoff. Subtract the electrical energy used by the indoor blower during the 3 minutes prior to compressor cut-on from the integrated electrical energy, e
cyc,dry.
Add the electrical energy used by the indoor blower during the 3 minutes after compressor cutoff to the integrated cooling capacity, q
cyc,dry.
For the case where the non-ducted indoor unit uses a variable-speed indoor blower which is disabled during the cyclic test, correct e
cyc,dry
and q
cyc,dry
using the same approach as prescribed in section 3.5.1 of this appendix for ducted units having a disabled variable-speed indoor blower.

# 3.5.3 Cooling-Mode Cyclic-Degradation Coefficient Calculation
Use the two dry-coil tests to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C
D
c
. Append “(k=2)” to the coefficient if it corresponds to a two-capacity unit cycling at high capacity. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested CD
c
that exceeds the default CD
c
or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign CD
c
the default value of 0.25 for variable-speed compressor systems and outdoor units with no match, and 0.20 for all other systems. The default value for two-capacity units cycling at high capacity, however, is the low-capacity coefficient,
i.e.,
C
D
c
(k=2) = C
D
c
. Evaluate C
D
c
using the above results and those from the section 3.4 dry-coil steady-state test.
ER05JA17.020
where:
ER05JA17.021
the average energy efficiency ratio during the cyclic dry coil cooling mode test, Btu/W·h
ER05JA17.022
the average energy efficiency ratio during the steady-state dry coil cooling mode test, Btu/W·h
ER05JA17.023
the cooling load factor dimensionless
Round the calculated value for C
D
c
to the nearest 0.01. If C
D
c
is negative, then set it equal to zero.

# 3.6 Heating Mode Tests for Different Types of Heat Pumps, Including Heating-Only Heat Pumps

# 3.6.1 Tests for a Heat Pump Having a Single-Speed Compressor and Fixed Heating Air Volume Rate
This set of tests is for single-speed-compressor heat pumps that do not have a heating minimum air volume rate or a heating intermediate air volume rate that is different than the heating full load air volume rate. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C
D
h
. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested C
D
h
that exceeds the default C
D
h
or if the optional test is not conducted, assign C
D
h
the default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the four tests are specified in Table 10.
Table 11—Heating Mode Test Conditions for Units Having a Single-Speed Compressor and a Fixed-Speed Indoor Blower, a Constant Air Volume Rate Indoor Blower, or No Indoor Blower
Test description
Air entering indoor unit
temperature
( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Air entering outdoor unit
temperature
( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Heating air volume rate
H1 Test (required, steady)
70
60
(max)
47
43
Heating Full-load.
1
H1C Test (optional, cyclic)
70
60
(max)
47
43
(
2
)
H2 Test (required)
70
60
(max)
35
33
Heating Full-load.
1
H3 Test (required, steady)
70
60
(max)
17
15
Heating Full-load.
1
1
Defined in section 3.1.4.4 of this appendix.f
2
Maintain the airflow nozzles static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the H1 Test.

# 3.6.2 Tests for a Heat Pump Having a Single-Speed Compressor and a Single Indoor Unit Having Either (1) a Variable Speed, Variable-Air-Rate Indoor Blower Whose Capacity Modulation Correlates With Outdoor Dry Bulb Temperature or (2) Multiple Indoor Blowers
Conduct five tests: Two high temperature tests (H1
2
and H1
1
), one frost accumulation test (H2
2
), and two low temperature tests (H3
2
and H3
1
). Conducting an additional frost accumulation test (H2
1
) is optional. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C
1
) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C
D
h
. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested C
D
h
that exceeds the default C
D
h
or if the optional test is not conducted, assign C
D
h
the default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the seven tests are specified in Table 12. If the optional H2
1
test is not performed, use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power of the heat pump at the H2
1
test conditions:
ER05JA17.024
The quantities Q
h
k=2
(47), E
h
k=2
(47), Q
h
k=1
(47), and E
h
k=1
(47) are determined from the H1
2
and H1
1
tests and evaluated as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix; the quantities Q
h
k=2
(35) and E
h
k=2
(35) are determined from the H2
2
test and evaluated as specified in section 3.9 of this appendix; and the quantities Q
h
k=2
(17), E
h
k=2
(17), Q
h
k=1
(17), and E
h
k=1
(17), are determined from the H3
2
and H3
1
tests and evaluated as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.
Table 12—Table Heating Mode Test Conditions for Units With a Single-Speed Compressor That Meet the Section 3.6.2 Indoor Unit Requirements
Test description
Air entering indoor unit
temperature
( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Air entering outdoor unit
temperature
( °F)
Dry bulb
Wet bulb
Heating air volume rate
H1
2
Test (required, steady)
70
60
(max)
47
43
Heating Full-load.
1
H1
1
Test (required, steady)
70
60
(max)
47
43
Heating Minimum.
2
H1C
1
Test (optional, cyclic)
70
60
(max)
47
43
(
3
)
H2
2
Test (required)
70
60
(max)
35
33
Heating Full-load.
1
H2
1
Test (optional)
70
60
(max)
35
33
Heating Minimum.
2
H3
2
Test (required, steady)
70
60
(max)
17
15
Heating Full-load.
1
H3
1
Test (required, steady)
70
60
(max)
17
15
Heating Minimum.
2
1
Defined in section 3.1.4.4 of this appendix.
2
Defined in section 3.1.4.5 of this appendix.
3
Maintain the airflow nozzles static pressure difference or velocity pressure during the ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the H1
1
test.

# 3.6.3 Tests for a Heat Pump Having a Two-Capacity Compressor (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), Including Two-Capacity, Northern Heat Pumps (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions)
a. Conduct one maximum temperature test (H0
1
), two high temperature tests (H1
2
and H1
1
), one frost accumulation test (H2
2
), and one low temperature test (H3
2
). Conduct an additional frost accumulation test (H2
1
) and low temperature test (H3
1
) if both of the following conditions exist:
(1) Knowledge of the heat pump's capacity and electrical power at low compressor capacity for outdoor temperatures of 37 °F and less is needed to complete the section 4.2.3 of this appendix seasonal performance calculations; and
(2) The heat pump's controls allow low-capacity operation at outdoor temperatures of 37 °F and less.
If the above two conditions are met, an alternative to conducting the H2
1
frost accumulation is to use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power:
ER05JA17.306
Determine the quantities Q
h
k=1
(47) and E
h
k=1
(47) from the H1
1
test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q
h
k=1
(17) and E
h
k=1
(17) from the H3
1
test and evaluate them according to section 3.10 of this appendix.
b. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic test (H1C
1
