A product purporting to be “reduced calorie” or otherwise containing fewer calories than a reference food must comply with the criteria set forth for such foods in § 387.460(b) (4) and (5).
(e)
“Label terms suggesting usefulness as low calorie or reduced calorie foods”.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, a product may be labeled with terms such as “diet,” “dietetic,” “artificially sweetened,” or “sweetened with nonnutritive sweetener” only if the claim is not false or misleading, and the product is labeled “low calorie” or “reduced calorie” or bears another comparative calorie claim in compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart.
(2) Paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall not apply to any use of such terms that is specifically authorized by regulation governing a particular food, or, unless otherwise restricted by regulation, to any use of the term “diet” that clearly shows that the product is offered solely for a dietary use other than regulating body weight, e.g., “for low sodium diets.”
(3) Paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall not apply to any use of such terms on a formulated meal replacement or other product that is represented to be of special dietary use as a whole meal, pending the issuance of a
regulation governing the use of such terms on foods.
(f) “Sugar free” and “no added sugar”. Criteria for the use of the terms “sugar free” and “no added sugar” are provided for in § 381.460(c).
[58 FR 675, Jan. 6, 1993; 58 FR 43789, Aug. 18, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 47628, Sept. 10, 1993; 60 FR 217, Jan. 3, 1995]
§§ 381.481-381.499
[Reserved]
§ 381.500
Exemption from nutrition labeling.
(a) The following poultry products are exempt from nutrition labeling:
(1) Food products produced by small businesses other than the major cuts of single-ingredient, raw poultry products identified in § 381.444 produced by small businesses, provided that the labels for these products bear no nutrition claims or nutrition information, and ground or chopped products described in § 381.401 produced by small businesses that bear a statement of the lean percentage and fat percentage on the label or in labeling in accordance with § 381.462(f), provided that labels or labeling for these products bear no other nutrition claims or nutrition information,
(i) A food product, for purposes of the small business exemption, is defined as a formulation, not including distinct flavors which do not significantly alter the nutritional profile, sold in any size package in commerce.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, a small business is any single-plant facility, including a single retail store, or multi-plant company/firm, including a multi-retail store operation that employs 500 or fewer people and produces no more than the following amounts of pounds of the product qualifying the firm for exemption from this subpart:
(A) During the first year of implementation of nutrition labeling, from July 1994 to July 1995, 250,000 pounds or less,
(B) During the second year of implementation of nutrition labeling, from July 1995 to July 1996, 175,000 pounds or less, and
(C) During the third year of implementation and subsequent years thereafter, 100,000 pounds or less.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph, calculation of the amount of pounds shall be based on the most recent 2-year average of business activity. Where firms have been in business less than 2 years or where products have been produced for less than 2 years, reasonable estimates must indicate that the annual pounds produced will not exceed the amounts specified.
(2) Products intended for further processing, provided that the labels for these products bear no nutrition claims or nutrition information,
(3) Products that are not for sale to consumers, provided that the labels for these products bear no nutrition claims or nutrition information,
(4) Products in small packages that are individually wrapped packages of less than
1/2
ounce net weight, provided that the labels for these products bear no nutrition claims or nutrition information,
(5) Products custom slaughtered or prepared,
(6) Products intended for export, and
(7) The following products prepared and served or sold at retail provided that the labels or the labeling of these products bear no nutrition claims or nutrition information:
(i) Ready-to-eat products that are packaged or portioned at a retail store or similar retail-type establishment, provided, however, that this exemption does not apply to ready-to-eat ground or chopped poultry products described in § 381.401 that are packaged or portioned at a retail establishment, unless the establishment qualifies for an exemption under (a)(1);
(ii) Multi-ingredient products (e.g. sausage) processed at a retail store or similar retail-type establishment, provided, however, that this exemption does not apply to multi-ingredient ground or chopped poultry products described in § 381.401 that are processed at a retail establishment, unless the establishment qualifies for an exemption under (a)(1); and
(iii) Products that are ground or chopped at an individual customer's request.
(b) Restaurant menus generally do not constitute labeling or fall within the scope of these regulations.
(c)(1) Foods represented to be specifically for infants and children less than 2 years of age shall bear nutrition labeling as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, except such labeling shall not include calories from fat, calories from saturated fat, saturated fat, stearic acid, polyunsaturated fat, monounsaturated fat, and cholesterol.
(2) Foods represented or purported to be specifically for infants and children less than 4 years of age shall bear nutrition labeling except that:
(i) Such labeling shall not include declarations of percent of Daily Value for total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, sodium, potassium, total carbohydrate, and dietary fiber;
(ii) Nutrient names and quantitative amounts by weight shall be presented in two separate columns;
(iii) The heading “Percent Daily Value” required in § 381.409(d)(6) shall be placed immediately below the quantitative information by weight for protein;
(iv) The percent of the Daily Value for protein, vitamins, and minerals shall be listed immediately below the heading “Percent Daily Value”; and
(v) Such labeling shall not include the footnote specified in § 381.409(d)(9).
(d)(1) Products in packages that have a total surface area available to bear labeling of less than 12 square inches are exempt from nutrition labeling, provided that the labeling for these products bear no nutrition claims or other nutrition information except that this exemption does not apply to the major cuts of single-ingredient, raw poultry products identified in § 381.444. The manufacturer, packer, or distributor shall provide, on the label of packages that qualify for and use this exemption, an address or telephone number that a consumer can use to obtain the required nutrition information (e.g., “For nutrition information call 1-800-123-4567”).
(2) When such products bear nutrition labeling, either voluntarily or because nutrition claims or other nutrition information is provided, all required information shall be in a type size no smaller than 6 point or all upper case type of
1/16
-inch minimum height, except that individual serving-size packages of poultry products that have a total area available to bear labeling of 3 square inches or less may provide all required information in a type size no smaller than
1/32
-inch minimum height.
[58 FR 675, Jan. 6, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 47628, Sept. 10, 1993; 59 FR 45198, Sept. 1, 1994; 60 FR 217, Jan. 3, 1995; 75 FR 82167, Dec. 29, 2010; 76 FR 76891, Dec. 9, 2011]

# Subpart Z—Selected Establishments; Cooperative Program for Interstate Shipment of Poultry Products

# Source:
76 FR 24756, May 2, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 381.511
Definitions.
Cooperative interstate shipment program.
A cooperative poultry products inspection program described in § 381.187 of this part.
Cooperative State poultry products inspection program.
A cooperative State-Federal poultry products inspection program described in § 381.185 of this part.
Designated personnel.
State inspection personnel that have been trained in the enforcement of the Act and any additional State program requirements in order to provide inspection services to selected establishments.
Interstate commerce.
“Interstate commerce” has the same meaning as “commerce” under § 381.1 of this part.
Selected establishment.
An establishment operating under a State cooperative poultry products inspection program that has been selected by the Administrator, in coordination with the State where the establishment is located, to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program.
§ 381.512
Purpose.
This subpart Z prescribes the conditions under which States that administer cooperative State poultry products inspection programs and establishments that operate under such programs may participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program.
§ 381.513
Requirements for establishments; ineligible establishments.
(a) An establishment that operates under a cooperative State poultry products inspection program may apply to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program under this subpart if:
(1) The establishment employs on average no more than 25 employees based on the standards described in paragraph (b) of this section, or
(2) The establishment employed more than 25 employees but fewer than 35 employees as of June 18, 2008. If selected to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program, an establishment under this paragraph must employ on average no more than 25 employees as of July 1, 2014, or it must transition to become an official establishment as provided in § 381.521 of this subpart.
(b) An establishment that has 25 or fewer employees based on the following standards is considered to have 25 or fewer employees on average for purposes of this subpart.
(1) All individuals, both supervisory and non-supervisory, employed by the establishment on a full-time, part-time, or temporary basis whose duties involve handling the poultry products prepared by the establishment are counted when calculating the total number of employees.
(2) All individuals employed by the establishment from a temporary employee agency, professional employee organization, or leasing concern whose duties involve handling the poultry products prepared by the establishment are counted when calculating the total number of employees.
(3) The average number of employees is calculated for each of the pay periods for the preceding 12 calendar months.
(4) Part-time and temporary employees are counted the same as full-time employees.
(5) If the establishment has not been in business for 12 months, the average number of employees is calculated for each of the pay periods in which the establishment has been in business.
(6) Volunteers who receive no compensation are not considered employees unless their duties involve handling the poultry products prepared by the establishment.
(7) The total number of employees can never exceed 35 individuals at any given time, regardless of the average number of employees.
(c) The following establishments are ineligible to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program:
(1) Establishments that employ more than 25 employees on average (except as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section);
(2) Establishments operating under a Federal-State program as provided in § 381.186 of this part as of June 18, 2008;
(3) Official establishments;
(4) Establishments that were official establishments as of June 18, 2008, but that were re-organized on a later date by the person that controlled the establishment as of June 18, 2008;
(5) Establishments operating under a cooperative State poultry products inspection program that employed more than 35 employees as of June 18, 2008, that were reorganized on a later date by the person that controlled the establishment as of June 18, 2008;
(6) Establishments that are the subject of a transition under § 381.521 of this subpart;
(7) Establishments that are in violation of the Act;
(8) Establishments located in States without a cooperative State poultry products inspection program; and
(9) Establishments located in a State whose agreement for a cooperative interstate shipment program was terminated by the Administrator as provided in § 381.187(d) of this part.
(d) An establishment that meets the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section and that is not an ineligible establishment under paragraph (c) of this section may apply for selection into a cooperative interstate shipment program through the State in which the establishment is located.
[76 FR 24756, May 2, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 81360, Dec. 28, 2011]
§ 381.514
State request for cooperative agreement.
(a) State participation in a cooperative interstate shipment program under this subpart is limited to States that have implemented cooperative
State poultry products inspection programs.
(b) To request an agreement for a cooperative interstate shipment program under this subpart, a State must submit a written request to the Administrator through the FSIS District Office for the FSIS District in which the State is located. In the request the State must:
(1) Identify establishments in the State that have requested to be selected for the program that the State recommends for initial selection into the program, if any;
(2) Demonstrate that the State is able to provide the necessary inspection services to selected establishments in the State and conduct any related activities that would be required under a cooperative interstate shipment program established under this subpart; and
(3) Agree that, if the State enters into an agreement with FSIS for a cooperative interstate shipment program, the State will:
(i) Provide FSIS with access to the results of all laboratory analyses conducted on product samples from selected establishments in the State;
(ii) Notify the selected establishment coordinator for the State of the results of any laboratory analyses that indicate that a product prepared in a selected establishment may be adulterated or may otherwise present a food safety concern; and
(iii) When necessary, cooperate with FSIS to transition selected establishments in the State that have been deselected from a cooperative interstate shipment program to become official establishments.
(c) If the Administrator determines that a State that has submitted a request to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program qualifies to enter into a cooperative agreement for such a program, the Administrator and the State will sign a cooperative agreement that sets forth the terms and conditions under which each party will cooperate to provide inspection services to selected establishments located in the State.
(d) After the Administrator and a State have signed an agreement for a cooperative interstate shipment program as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the Administrator will:
(1) Appoint an FSIS employee as the FSIS selected establishment coordinator for the State and
(2) Coordinate with the State to select establishments to participate in the program as provided in § 381.515(b) of this subpart.
§ 381.515
Establishment selection; official number for selected establishments.
(a) An establishment operating under a cooperative State poultry products inspection program will qualify for selection into a cooperative interstate shipment program if the establishment:
(1) Has submitted a request to the State to be selected for the program;
(2) Has the appropriate number of employees under § 381.513(a) of this subpart;
(3) Is not ineligible to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program under § 381.513(c) of this subpart;
(4) Is in compliance with all requirements under the cooperative State poultry products inspection program; and
(5) Is in compliance with all requirements under the Act and the implementing regulations in this chapter.
(b) To participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program, an establishment that meets the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section must be selected by the Administrator, in coordination with the State where the establishment is located.
(c) If an establishment is selected to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the State is to assign the establishment an official number that reflects the establishment's participation in the cooperative interstate shipment program and advise the FSIS selected establishment coordinator for the State of the official number assigned to each selected establishment in the State. The official numbers assigned to every selected establishment must contain a suffix, e.g., “SE,” that identifies the establishment as a selected establishment; that includes the letter “P,” which identifies
the establishment as a poultry establishment; and that identifies the State, e.g., “SEPND,” for “selected establishment poultry North Dakota.”
(d) Failure of a State to comply with paragraph (c) of this section will disqualify the State from participation in the cooperative interstate shipment program.
§ 381.516
Commencement of a cooperative interstate shipment program; inspection by designated personnel and official mark.
(a) A cooperative interstate shipment program will commence when the Administrator, in coordination with the State, has selected establishments in the State to participate in the program.
(b) Inspection services for selected establishments participating in a cooperative interstate shipment program must be provided by designated personnel, who will be under the direct supervision of a State employee.
(c) Poultry products processed in a selected establishment and inspected and passed by designated State personnel must bear an official Federal mark, stamp, tag, or label of inspection in the appropriate form prescribed in subpart M of this part that includes the information specified in § 381.515(c) of this subpart.
(d) Poultry products processed in a selected establishment that comply with the conditions in paragraph (c) of this section may be distributed in interstate commerce.
§ 381.517
Federal oversight of a cooperative interstate shipment program.
(a) The FSIS selected establishment coordinator for a State that has entered into an agreement for a cooperative interstate shipment program will visit each selected establishment in the State on a regular basis to verify that the establishment is operating in a manner that is consistent with the Act and the implementing regulations in this chapter. The frequency with which the SEC will visit selected establishments under the SEC's jurisdiction will be based on factors that include, but are not limited to, the complexity of the operations conducted at the selected establishment, the establishment's schedule of operations, and the establishment's performance under the cooperative interstate shipment program. If necessary, the selected establishment coordinator, in consultation with the District Manager that covers the State, may designate qualified FSIS personnel to visit a selected establishment on behalf of the selected establishment coordinator.
(b) The selected establishment coordinator, in coordination with the State, will verify that selected establishments in the State are receiving the necessary inspection services from designated personnel, and that these establishments are eligible, and remain eligible, to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program. The selected establishment coordinator's verification activities may include:
(1) Verifying that each selected establishment employs, and continues to employ, 25 or fewer employees, on average, as required under § 381.513(a) of this part, unless the establishment is transitioning to become an official establishment;
(2) Verifying that the designated personnel are providing inspection services to selected establishments in a manner that complies with the Act and the implementing regulations in this chapter;
(3) Verifying that that the State staffing levels for each selected establishments are appropriate to carry out the required inspection activities; and
(4) Assessing each selected establishment's compliance with the Act and implementing regulations in this chapter.
(c) If the selected establishment coordinator determines that designated personnel are providing inspection services to selected establishments in the State in a manner that is inconsistent with the Acts and the implementing regulations in this chapter, the Administrator will provide an opportunity for the State to develop and implement a corrective action plan to address inspection deficiencies identified by the selected establishment coordinator. If the State fails to develop a corrective action plan, or the selected establishment coordinator for
the State determines that the corrective action plan is inadequate, the Administrator will terminate the agreement for the cooperative interstate shipment program as provided in § 381.187(d) of this part.
§ 381.518
Quarterly reports.
(a) The selected establishment coordinator will prepare a report on a quarterly basis that describes the status of each selected establishment under his or her jurisdiction.
(b) The quarterly report required in paragraph (a) of this section will:
(1) Include the selected establishment coordinator's assessment of the performance of the designated personnel in conducting inspection activities at selected establishments and
(2) Identify those selected establishment that the selected establishment coordinator has verified are in compliance with the Act and implementing regulations in this chapter, those that have been deselected under § 381.520 of this subpart, and those that are transitioning to become official establishments under § 381.521 of this subpart.
(c) The selected establishment coordinator is to submit the quarterly report to the Administrator through the District Manager for the State where the selected establishments identified in the report are located.
§ 381.519
Enforcement authority.
(a) To facilitate oversight and enforcement of this subpart, selected establishments operating under a cooperative interstate shipment program must, upon request, give the FSIS selected establishment coordinator or other FSIS officials access to all establishment records required under the Act and the implementing regulations in this chapter. The Administrator may deselect any selected establishment that refuses to comply with this paragraph.
(b) Selected establishment coordinators may initiate any appropriate enforcement action provided for in part 500 of this chapter if they determine that a selected establishment under their jurisdiction is operating in manner that is inconsistent with the Act and the implementing regulations in this chapter. Selected establishments participating in a cooperative interstate shipment program are subject to the notification and appeal procedures set out in part 500 of this chapter.
(c) If inspection at a selected establishment is suspended for any of the reasons specified in § 500.3 or § 500.4 of this chapter, FSIS will:
(1) Provide an opportunity for the establishment to implement corrective actions and remain in the cooperative interstate shipment program, or
(2) Move to deselect the establishment as provided in § 381.520 of this subpart.
(d) The decision to deselect a selected establishment under a suspension will be made on a case-by-case basis. In making this decision, FSIS, in consultation with the State where the selected establishment is located, will consider, among other factors:
(1) The non-compliance that led to the suspension;
(2) The selected establishment's compliance history; and
(3) The corrective actions proposed by the selected establishment.
§ 381.520
Deselection of ineligible establishments.
(a) The Administrator will deselect a selected establishment that becomes ineligible to participate in a cooperative interstate shipment program for any reason listed under § 381.513(c) of this subpart.
(b) An establishment that has been deselected must transition to become an official establishment as provided in § 381.521 of this subpart.
§ 381.521
Transition to official establishment.
(a) If an establishment is deselected from a cooperative interstate shipment program as provided in § 381.520 of this subpart, FSIS, in coordination with the State where the establishment is located, will develop and implement a plan to transition the establishment to become an official establishment. Except that an establishment that was deselected from a cooperative interstate shipment program because it is located in a State whose agreement for such a program was terminated may either transition to become an official
establishment or transition to become a State-inspected establishment under the cooperative State poultry products inspection program.
(b) An establishment that has been deselected from a cooperative interstate shipment program and successfully transitioned to become an official establishment may withdraw from the Federal inspection program and resume operations under the cooperative State poultry products inspection program after operating as an official establishment in full compliance with the Act for a year.
§ 381.522
Transition grants.
(a) Transition grants are funds that a State participating in a cooperative interstate shipment program under this subpart may apply for to reimburse selected establishments in the State for the cost to train one individual in the seven HACCP principles for meat or poultry processing as required under § 417.7 of this chapter and associated training in the development of sanitation standard operating procedures required under part 416 of this chapter.
(b) A State participating in a cooperative interstate shipment program that receives a transition grant must use grant funds to reimburse the training costs of one employee per each selected establishment in the State. Any other use of such funds is prohibited.
§ 381.523
Separation of operations.
A selected establishment may conduct operations under the cooperative State poultry products inspection program if the establishment implements and maintains written procedures for complete physical separation of product and process for each operation by time or space.
§ 381.524
Voluntary withdrawal.
A selected establishment that is in full compliance with the requirements in this part may voluntarily end its participation in a cooperative interstate shipment program and operate under the cooperative State poultry products inspection program. Establishments that voluntarily end their participation in the cooperative may re-apply for the program after operating under the cooperative State poultry products inspection program for one year.
SUBCHAPTERS B-C [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER D—FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Pt. 390

# PART 390—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PUBLIC INFORMATION
Sec.
390.1
Scope and purpose.
390.2
Published materials.
390.3
Indexes, reference guide, and handbook.
390.4
Facilities for inspection and copying.
390.5
Requests for records.
390.6
Fee schedule.
390.7
Appeals.
390.8
Agency response to requests.
390.9
Communications with State and other Federal government agencies.
390.10
Availability of Lists of Retail Consignees during Meat or Poultry Product Recalls.
390.11
FSIS systems of records exempt from the Privacy Act.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a; 21 U.S.C. 451-472, 601-695; 7 CFR 1.3, 2.7.

# Source:
64 FR 43903, Aug. 12, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 390.1
Scope and purpose.
This part is issued pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), and in accordance with the directives of the Department of Agriculture regulations in part 1, subpart A, of Title 7. The availability of records, including electronic records created on or after November 1, 1996, of the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), and the procedures by which the public may request such information, will be governed by the FOIA and by the Department regulations as implemented and supplemented by the regulations in this part.
§ 390.2
Published materials.
FSIS rules and regulations relating to its regulatory responsibilities and administrative procedures are published and made available to the public in the
Federal Register
and codified in chapter III, title 9, of the Code of Federal Regulations. FSIS also issues numerous publications relating to Agency programs, which implement the laws listed in the Delegation of Authority, 7 CFR 2.15(a). Most of these publications are available free from the USDA Publications Division, Office of Governmental and Public Affairs, or at established rates from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, 20402-9328.
§ 390.3
Indexes, reference guide, and handbook.
(a) Pursuant to the regulations in 7 CFR 1.4(c), FSIS will maintain and make available for public inspection and copying an index providing identifying information regarding the materials required to be published or made available under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)). The Agency will make the index available by computer telecommunications by December 31, 1999. Quarterly publication of the index is unnecessary and impractical, since the material is voluminous and does not change often enough to justify the expense of quarterly publication. The Agency will provide copies of any index, upon request, at a cost not to exceed direct cost of duplication.
(b) FSIS is responsible for preparing reference material or a guide for requesting records or information from the Agency. This guide also will include an index of all major information systems and a description of major information and record locator systems.
(c) FSIS will prepare a handbook for obtaining information from the Agency. The handbook will be available on paper and through electronic means, and will discuss how the public can use it to access Agency FOIA annual reports. Similarly, the annual reports will refer to the handbook and how to obtain it.
§ 390.4
Facilities for inspection and copying.
Facilities for public inspection and copying of the material described in §§ 390.2 and 390.3 of this part will be provided by FSIS pursuant to 7 CFR 1.5(a) in a reading area, on business days between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30
p.m., upon request to the Freedom of Information Coordinator or designee at the following address:
Freedom of Information Act Coordinator (FOIA), Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-3700
§ 390.5
Request for records.
(a) The FOIA Coordinator of FSIS is authorized to receive requests and to exercise authority under 7 CFR 1.3(a) to—
(1) Make determinations to grant or deny such requests,
(2) Extend the 20-day deadline,
(3) Make discretionary releases of exempt records, except where disclosure is specifically prohibited by Executive Order, statute, and applicable regulations,
(4) Consider expedited processing when appropriate,
(5) Make determinations regarding the charging of fees pursuant to the established schedule, and
(6) Determine the applicability of 7 CFR 1.5 to requests for records.
(b) Requests for FSIS records or information will be made in writing in accordance with 7 CFR 1.5 and submitted to the FSIS Freedom of Information Act Coordinator at the following address:
Freedom of Information Act Coordinator (FOIA Request), Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-3700
The submitter will identify each record with reasonable specificity as prescribed in 7 CFR 1.3. All requests to inspect or obtain copies of any record or to obtain a fee waiver must be submitted in writing.
(c) In exercising authority under 7 CFR 1.3(a)(3) to grant and deny requests, the Coordinator or designee will comply with subsection (b) of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)), as amended, which requires that any reasonably segregated portion of a document will be provided to a person requesting the document after deletion of any portions within the scope of the request for which an exemption is being claimed under the Act. Therefore, unless the disclosable and nondisclosable portions are so inextricably linked that it is not reasonably possible to separate them, the document will be released with the nondisclosable portions deleted. The Coordinator or designee may exercise discretion as limited by 7 CFR l.15 to release the entire document or make only a minimum number of deletions. If portions of a document in electronic format have been redacted, the Agency must indicate, on the released portion of the document, the amount of information that has been deleted from a record, unless that indication would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
§ 390.6
Fee schedule.
Department regulations provide for a schedule of reasonable standard charges for document search and duplication. See 7 CFR 1.17. Fees to be charged are in 7 CFR part 1, subpart A, appendix A.
§ 390.7
Appeals.
(a) If the request for information or for a waiver of search or duplication is denied, in whole or in part, the FOIA Coordinator or designee will explain in the letter of response the grounds for any denial of access and offer the requester an opportunity to file an administrative appeal, pursuant to 7 CFR 1.3(a)(4). The appeal should be filed in writing within 45 days of the date of denial (departmental regulations, 7 CFR 1.14) and addressed as follows:
Administrator, Food Safety and Inspection Service (FOIA Appeals), Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-3700
(b) The FSIS Administrator is authorized under 7 CFR 1.3(a)(4) to extend the 20-day deadline, make discretionary releases, and make determinations regarding the charging of fees.
§ 390.8
Agency response to requests.
(a) The response to Freedom of Information requests and appeals by officials named in §§ 390.5 and 390.7 of this part shall be governed by and made in accordance with 7 CFR 1.7 and the regulations in this part.
(b) If requests for records and information are received by field offices, the field office will immediately notify the FOIA Coordinator or designee by telephone and transmit the request to the
FOIA office. In rare instances, the FOIA Coordinator or designee will authorize a release of the requested records to the field office receiving the request. The request will be considered as having been received on the date of arrival in the office of the Coordinator or designee. Any person whose request for records has been granted may inspect and copy the records (or copies) at the office listed in § 390.4 of this part in accordance with the provisions of that section and with § 390.6. Copies also may be obtained by mail.
§ 390.9
Communications with State and other Federal government agencies.
(a) The Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), or designee, may authorize the disclosure of distribution lists (records that show where and when product was shipped) obtained from a firm recalling products, or incorporated into agency-prepared records, to State and other Federal government agencies to verify the removal of the recalled product, provided that:
(1) The State agency has provided both a written statement establishing its authority to protect confidential distribution lists from public disclosure and a written commitment not to disclose any information provided by FSIS, without the written permission of the submitter of the information or written confirmation by FSIS that the information no longer has confidential status. Federal government agencies must provide a written commitment not to disclose the information and to refer any request for distribution lists to FSIS for response; and
(2) The Administrator of FSIS or designee determines that disclosure would be in the interest of public health.
(b) This provision does not authorize the disclosure to State or other Federal government agencies of trade secret information, unless otherwise provided by law or pursuant to an express written authorization provided by the submitter of the information.
(c) Information disclosed under this section is not a disclosure of information to the public. Disclosures made under this section do not waive any FOIA exemption protection.
[67 FR 20013, Apr. 24, 2002]
§ 390.10
Availability of Lists of Retail Consignees during Meat or Poultry Product Recalls.
The Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service will make publicly available the names and locations of retail consignees of recalled meat or poultry products that the Agency compiles in connection with a recall where there is a reasonable probability that the use of the product could cause serious adverse health consequences or death.
[73 FR 40948, July 17, 2008]
§ 390.11
FSIS systems of records exempt from the Privacy Act.
(a) USDA/FSIS-0005, AssuranceNet system of records, is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d)(1)-(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G)-(I), and (f) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, to the extent it contains investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of an investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation. This would permit record subjects to impede the investigation,
e.g.,
destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid inquiries or apprehension by law enforcement personnel.
(2) From subsection (d)(1) because the records contained in this system relate to official Federal investigations and matters of law enforcement. Individual access to these records might compromise ongoing or impending investigations, reveal confidential informants, or constitute unwarranted invasions of the personal privacy of third parties who are involved in a certain investigation.
(3) From section (d)(2) because amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(4) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) because these subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(5) From subsection (e)(1) because it is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory information contained in this system is accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. Moreover, it would impede the specific investigative process if it were necessary to assure the relevance, accuracy, timeliness, and completeness of all information obtained.
(6) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) since an exemption being claimed for subsection (d) makes these subsections inapplicable.
(7) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the categories of sources of the records in this system have been published in the
Federal Register
in broad generic terms in the belief that this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) requires. In the event, however, that subsection (e)(4)(I) should be interpreted to require more detail as to the identity of sources of the records in the system, exemption from this provision is necessary in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of enforcement information and of witnesses and informants.
(8) From subsection (f) to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(b) [Reserved]
[89 FR 12747, Feb. 20, 2024]
Pt. 391

# PART 391—FEES AND CHARGES FOR INSPECTION SERVICES AND LABORATORY ACCREDITATION
Sec.
391.1
Scope and purpose.
391.2
Basetime rate.
391.3
Overtime and holiday rates.
391.4
Laboratory services rate.
391.5
Laboratory accreditation fees.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 138f; 7 U.S.C. 1622, 1627 and 2219a; 21 U.S.C. 451
et seq.;
21 U.S.C. 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18 and 2.53.
§ 391.1
Scope and purpose.
Fees shall be charged by the Agency for certain specified inspection services provided on a holiday, on an overtime basis, and/or which are voluntary inspection services.
[54 FR 6390, Feb. 10, 1989]
§ 391.2
Basetime rate.
(a) For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the basetime rate for inspection services, per hour per program employee, provided pursuant to §§ 350.7, 351.8, 351.9, 352.5, 354.101, 355.12, and 362.5 of this chapter, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by the previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate.
(b) FSIS will calculate the benefits, travel and operating, overhead, and allowance for bad debt rate components of the basetime rate, using the following formulas:
(1)
Benefits rate.
The quotient of dividing the previous fiscal year's direct benefits costs by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday), plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage cost of living increase. Some examples of direct benefits are health insurance, retirement, life insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan basic and matching contributions.
(2)
Travel and operating rate.
The quotient of dividing the previous fiscal year's total direct travel and operating costs by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday), plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of inflation.
(3)
Overhead rate.
The quotient of dividing the previous fiscal year's indirect costs plus the previous fiscal year's information technology (IT)
costs in the Public Health Data Communication Infrastructure System Fund plus the previous fiscal year's Office of Management Program cost in the Reimbursable and Voluntary Funds plus the provision for the operating balance less any Greenbook costs (i.e., costs of USDA support services prorated to the service component for which the fees are charged) that are not related to food inspection, by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked across all funds, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of inflation.
(4)
Allowance for bad debt rate.
Previous fiscal year's allowance for bad debt (for example, debt owed that is not paid in full by plants and establishments that declare bankruptcy) divided by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.
(c) The calendar year's cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on the Office of Management and Budget's Presidential Economic Assumptions.
[76 FR 20227, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 391.3
Overtime and holiday rates.
For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the overtime and holiday rates, per hour per program employee, provided pursuant to §§ 307.5, 350.7, 351.8, 351.9, 352.5, 354.101, 355.12, 362.5, and 381.38 of this chapter, using the following formulas:
(a)
Overtime rate.
The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by the previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, multiplied by 1.5, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate.
(b)
Holiday rate.
The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by the previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, multiplied by 2, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate.
(c) FSIS will calculate the benefits rate, the travel and operating rate, the overhead rate, and the allowance for bad debt rate using the formulas set forth in § 391.2(b), and the cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors set forth in § 391.2(c).
[76 FR 20227, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 391.4
Laboratory services rate.
(a) For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the laboratory services rate, per hour per program employee, provided pursuant to §§ 350.7, 351.9, 352.5, 354.101, 355.12, and 362.5 of this chapter, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Public Health Science (OPHS) previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by OPHS previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage cost of living increase, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate.
(b) FSIS will calculate the benefits rate, the travel and operating rate, the overhead rate, and the allowance for bad debt rate using the formulas set forth in § 391.2(b), and the cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors set forth in § 391.2(c).
[76 FR 20228, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 391.5
Laboratory accreditation fees.
(a) The annual fee for the accreditation and maintenance of accreditation provided pursuant to § 439.5 of this chapter shall be $5,000 for the first analyte class, $2,900 for the second analyte class, and $2,100 for each additional analyte class.
(b) Laboratories that request special onsite inspections shall pay FSIS the actual cost of reasonable travel and other expenses necessary to perform
the unscheduled or non-routine onsite inspections.
[58 FR 65269, Dec. 13, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66449, Dec. 27, 1994; 64 FR 19868, Apr. 23, 1999; 71 FR 2143, Jan. 13, 2006; 76 FR 20228, Apr. 12, 2011; 78 FR 59622, Sept. 27, 2013; 79 FR 56238, Sept. 19, 2014]
Pt. 392

# PART 392—PETITIONS FOR RULEMAKING
Sec.
392.1
Scope and purpose.
392.2
Definition of petition.
392.3
Required information.
392.4
Supporting documentation.
392.5
Filing procedures.
392.6
Public display.
392.7
Comments.
392.8
Expedited review.
392.9
Availability of additional guidance.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 553(e), 7 CFR 1.28.

# Source:
74 FR 16107, Apr. 9, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 392.1
Scope and purpose.
This part contains provisions governing the submission of petitions for rulemaking to the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS). The provisions in this part apply to all rulemaking petitions submitted to FSIS, except to the extent that other parts or sections of this chapter prescribe procedures for submitting a request to amend a particular regulation.
§ 392.2
Definition of petition.
For purposes of this part, a “petition” is a written request to issue, amend, or repeal a regulation administered by FSIS. A request to issue, amend, or repeal a document that interprets a regulation administered by FSIS may also be submitted by petition.
§ 392.3
Required information.
To be considered by FSIS, a petition must contain the following information:
(a) The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address (if available) of the person who is submitting the petition;
(b) A full statement of the action requested by the petitioner, including the exact wording and citation of the existing regulation, if any, and the proposed regulation or amendment requested;
(c) A full statement of the factual and legal basis on which the petitioner relies for the action requested in the petition, including all relevant information and views on which the petitioner relies, as well as information known to the petitioner that is unfavorable to the petitioner's position. The statement should identify the problem that the requested action is intended to address and explain why the requested action is necessary to address the problem.
§ 392.4
Supporting documentation.
(a) Information referred to or relied on in support of a petition should be included in full and should not be incorporated by reference. A copy of any article or other source cited in a petition should be submitted with the petition.
(b) Sources of information that are appropriate to use in support of a petition include, but are not limited to:
(1) professional journal articles,
(2) research reports,
(3) official government statistics,
(4) official government reports,
(5) industry data, and
(6) scientific textbooks.
(c) If an original research report is used to support a petition, the information should be presented in a form that would be acceptable for publication in a peer reviewed scientific or technical journal.
(d) If quantitative data are used to support a petition, the presentation of the data should include a complete statistical analysis using conventional statistical methods.
§ 392.5
Filing procedures.
(a) Any interested person may file a petition with FSIS. For purposes of this part, an “interested person” is any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization.
(b) To file a petition with FSIS, a person should submit the petition to the FSIS Docket Clerk, Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Room 2534 South Building, 1400 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20250-3700.
(c) Once a petition is submitted in accordance with this part, it will be filed by the FSIS Docket Clerk, stamped with the date of filing, and assigned a petition number. Once a petition has been filed, FSIS will notify the petitioner in writing and provide the petitioner with the number assigned to the petition and the Agency contact for the petition. The petition number should be referenced by the petitioner in all contacts with the Agency regarding the petition.
(d) If a petitioner elects to withdraw a petition submitted in accordance with this part, the petitioner should inform FSIS in writing. Once a petition has been withdrawn, the petitioner may re-submit the petition at any time.
§ 392.6
Public display.
(a) All rulemaking petitions filed with FSIS, along with any documentation submitted in support of a petition, will be available for public inspection in the FSIS docket room and will be posted on the FSIS Web site at
http://www.fsis.usda.gov/.
(b) If FSIS cannot readily determine whether information submitted in support of a petition is privileged or confidential business information, FSIS will request that the petitioner submit a written statement that certifies that the petition does not contain confidential information that should not be put on public display. If the petitioner fails to submit the certification within a time specified by FSIS, the Agency will consider the information to be confidential.
(c) If FSIS determines that a petition, or any documentation submitted in support of a petition, contains information that is exempt from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552
et seq.
) or any other applicable laws or regulations, and that the information would provide the basis for granting the petition, FSIS will inform the petitioner in writing. FSIS will provide the petitioner an opportunity to withdraw the petition or supporting documentation, or modify the supporting documentation to permit public disclosure.
§ 392.7
Comments.
(a) Any interested person may submit written comments on a petition filed with FSIS.
(b) Comments on a petition should be submitted within 60 days of the posting date of the petition and should identify the number assigned to the petition to which the comments refer.
(c) FSIS will consider all timely comments on a petition that are submitted in accordance with this section as part of its review of the petition.
(d) All comments on a petition will become part of the petition file and will be available for public inspection in the FSIS docket room and posted on the FSIS Web site at
http://www.fsis.usda.gov/.
(e) Any interested person who wishes to suggest an alternative action to the action requested by the petition should submit a separate petition that complies with these regulations and not submit the alternative as a comment on the petition.
(f) If FSIS determines that a comment received on a petition is in fact a request for an alternative action, the Agency will inform the commenter in writing. The Agency will take no further action on the requested alternative action unless the commenter submits an appropriate petition for rulemaking.
§ 392.8
Expedited review.
(a) A petition will receive expedited review by FSIS if the requested action is intended to enhance the public health by removing or reducing foodborne pathogens or other potential food safety hazards that might be present in or on meat, poultry, or egg products.
(b) For a petition to be considered for expedited review, the petitioner must submit scientific information that demonstrates that the requested action will reduce or remove foodborne pathogens or other potential food safety hazards that are likely to be present in or on meat, poultry, or egg products, and how it will do so.
(c) If FSIS determines that a petition warrants expedited review, FSIS will review the petition ahead of other pending petitions.
§ 392.9
Availability of additional guidance.
Information related to the submission and processing of petitions for rulemaking may be found on the FSIS Web site at
http://www.fsis.usda.gov/.

# SUBCHAPTER E—REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE FEDERAL MEAT INSPECTION ACT, THE POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT, AND THE EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT
Pt. 412

# PART 412—LABEL APPROVAL
Sec.
412.1
Label approval.
412.2
Approval of generic labels.
412.3
Approval of U.S.-origin generic label claims.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
78 FR 66838, Nov. 7, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 412.1
Label approval.
(a) No final label may be used on any product unless the label has been submitted for approval to the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff, accompanied by FSIS Form 7234-1, Application for Approval of Labels, Marking, and Devices, and approved by such staff, except for generically approved labels authorized for use in § 412.2. The management of the official establishment or establishment certified under a foreign inspection system, in accordance with parts 327 and 381, subpart T, must maintain a copy of all labels used, in accordance with parts 320 and 381, subpart Q, of this chapter. Such records must be made available to any duly authorized representative of the Secretary upon request.
(b) All labels required to be submitted for approval as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section will be submitted to the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff. A parent company for a corporation may submit only one label application for a product produced in other establishments that are owned by the corporation.
(c) The Food Safety and Inspection Service requires the submission of labeling applications for the following:
(1) Sketch labels as defined in paragraph (d) of this section for products which are produced under a religious exemption;
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Special statements and claims as defined in paragraph (e) of this section and presented in the context of a final label.
(4) Requests for the temporary use of final labels as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section.
(d) A “sketch” label is the concept of a label. It may be a printer's proof or equivalent that is sufficiently legible to clearly show all labeling features, size, and location. The Food Safety and Inspection Service will accept sketches that are hand drawn or computer generated, or other reasonable facsimiles that clearly reflect and project the final version of the label.
(e) “Special statements and claims” are statements, claims, logos, trademarks, and other symbols on labels as defined in this paragraph (e).
(1) The following are considered special statements and claims:
(i) Those not defined in the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations or the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book;
(ii) “Natural” claims, regardless of whether they are defined in the Food Standards and Labeling Policy Book; and
(iii) Health claims (including graphic representations of hearts), ingredient and processing method claims (
e.g.,
high-pressure processing), structure-function claims, claims regarding the raising of animals (
e.g.,
“no antibiotics administered”), products labeled as organic (except for those where only individual ingredients are labeled as organic), and instructional or disclaimer statements concerning pathogens (
e.g.,
“for cooking only” or “not tested for
E. coli
O157:H7”).
(2) The following are not considered special statements and claims:
(i) Allergen statements (
e.g.,
“contains soy”) applied in accordance with the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act;
(ii) Negative claims regarding ingredients not listed in the ingredients statement (
e.g.,
“No MSG Added,”
“Preservative Free,” “No Milk,” “No Pork,” or “Made Without Soy”);
(iii) Statements that characterize a product's nutrient content in compliance with Title 9 of the CFR, such as “low fat”; and
(iv) Claims related to geographical significance, such as “German Brand Made in the US,” or those that make a country of origin statement on the label of any meat or poultry product “covered commodity,”
1
or displays of geographic landmarks, such as a foreign country's flag, monument, or map.
1
See 9 CFR 317.8(b)(40) and 381.129(f).
(f)(1) Temporary approval for the use of a final label that may be deemed deficient in some particular may be granted by the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff. Temporary approvals may be granted for a period not to exceed 180 calendar days, under the following conditions:
(i) The proposed label would not misrepresent the product;
(ii) The use of the label would not present any potential health, safety, or dietary problems to the consumer;
(iii) Denial of the request would create undue economic hardship; and
(iv) An unfair competitive advantage would not result from the granting of the temporary approval.
(2) Extensions of temporary approvals may also be granted by the FSIS Labeling and Program Delivery Staff provided that the applicant demonstrates that new circumstances, meeting the above criteria, have developed since the original temporary approval was granted.
[78 FR 66838, Nov. 7, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 2811, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 412.2
Approval of generic labels.
(a)(1) An official establishment, or an establishment certified under a foreign inspection system in accordance with part 327, or part 381, subpart T of this chapter, is authorized to use generically approved labels, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, and thus is free to use such labels without submitting them to the Food Safety and Inspection Service for approval, provided the label, in accordance with this section, displays all mandatory features in a prominent manner in compliance with part 317 or part 381, and is not otherwise false or misleading in any particular.
(2) The Food Safety and Inspection Service will select samples of generically approved labels from the records maintained by official establishments and establishments certified under foreign inspection systems, in accordance with part 327 or part 381, subpart T, to determine compliance with label requirements. If the Agency finds that an establishment is using a false or misleading label, it will institute the proceedings prescribed in § 500.8 of this chapter to revoke the approval for the label.
(b) Generically approved labels are labels that bear all applicable mandatory labeling features (
i.e.,
product name, handling statement, ingredients statement, the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer or distributor, net weight, legend, safe handling instructions, and nutrition labeling) in accordance with Federal regulations and do not bear special statements and claims as defined in § 412.1(e).
[78 FR 66838, Nov. 7, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 2812, Jan. 18, 2023]
§ 412.3
Approval of U.S.-origin generic label claims.
(a) The claims “Product of USA” and “Made in the USA” may be used under generic approval on labels to designate single ingredient products derived from animals born, raised, slaughtered, and processed in the United States.
(b)(1) The claims “Product of USA” and “Made in the USA” may be used under generic approval on labels to designate multi-ingredient products if:
(i) All ingredients that are produced under FSIS mandatory inspection or voluntary inspection services in the product are derived from animals born, raised, slaughtered, and processed in the United States;
(ii) All other ingredients in the product are of domestic origin; and
(iii) The preparation and processing steps for the multi-ingredient product have occurred in the United States.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), spices and flavorings need not be of domestic origin for claim use, but all
other ingredients of the product must be of domestic origin.
(c) Claims other than “Product of USA” and “Made in the USA” may be used under generic approval on labels to designate the U.S.-origin component of single ingredient and multi-ingredient products' preparation and processing only if the claim includes a description of the preparation and processing steps that occurred in the United States upon which the claim is being made. Such labels must be truthful and not misleading.
(d) Claims may be used under generic approval on labels to designate the U.S. State, Territory, or locality-origin of single ingredient and multi-ingredient products or components of a product's preparation and processing, only if the claim meets the requirements for use of U.S.-origin claims under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section with regards to the U.S. State, territory, or locality origin.
(e) Display of the U.S. flag, or a U.S. State or territory flag, may be used under generic approval on labels to designate the United States, U.S. State, or U.S. territory origin of single and multi-ingredient products or components of a product's preparation and processing, only if the display of the flag meets the requirements for use of U.S.-origin claims under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. For the purposes of the display of a flag that meets the requirements for use of U.S.-origin claims other than “Product of USA” and “Made in the USA” under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the display must be accompanied by a description of the preparation and processing steps that occurred in the United States, or in the U.S. State or territory, upon which the claim is being made.
(f) In addition to the requirements in § 412.2, official establishments using and facilities choosing to use labels that bear the claims “Product of USA” or “Made in the USA” to designate products of U.S. origin must maintain records to support the U.S.-origin claim. Examples of the types of documentation that may be maintained to support the U.S.-origin claims “Product of USA” or “Made in the USA” include:
(1) A written description of the controls used in the birthing, raising, slaughter, and processing of the source animals and eggs, and for multi-ingredient products the preparation and processing of all additional ingredients other than spices and flavorings, to ensure that each step complies with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(2) A written description of the controls used to trace and, as necessary, segregate, from the time of birth through packaging and wholesale or retail distribution, source animals and eggs, all additional ingredients other than spices and flavorings, and resulting products that comply with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(3) A signed and dated document describing how the product is prepared and processed to support that the claim is not false or misleading.
(g) In addition to the requirements in § 412.2, official establishments using and facilities choosing to use a U.S.-origin label claim other than “Product of USA” or “Made in the USA” to designate the U.S.-origin preparation and processing steps of a product must maintain records to support the qualified U.S.-origin claim. Examples of the types of documentation that may be maintained to support the qualified U.S.-origin claim include:
(1) A written description of the controls used in each applicable preparation and processing step of source animals and eggs, all additional ingredients other than spices and flavorings, and resulting products to demonstrate that the qualified U.S.-origin claim complies with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. The described controls may include those used to trace and, as necessary, segregate, during each applicable step, source animals and eggs, all additional ingredients other than spices and flavorings, and resulting products that comply with the U.S.-origin claim from those that do not comply.
(2) A signed and dated document describing how the qualified U.S.-origin claim regarding the preparation and processing steps is not false or misleading.
[89 FR 19495, Mar. 18, 2024]
Pt. 416

# PART 416—SANITATION
Sec.
416.1
General rules.
416.2
Establishment grounds and facilities.
416.3
Equipment and utensils.
416.4
Sanitary operations.
416.5
Employee hygiene.
416.6
Tagging insanitary equipment, utensils, rooms or compartments.
416.11
General rules.
416.12
Development of sanitation SOP's.
416.13
Implementation of SOP's.
416.14
Maintenance of Sanitation SOP's.
416.15
Corrective Actions.
416.16
Recordkeeping requirements.
416.17
Agency verification.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695, 1031-1056; 7 U.S.C. 450, 1901-1906; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
61 FR 38868, July 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 416.1
General rules.
Each official establishment must be operated and maintained in a manner sufficient to prevent the creation of insanitary conditions and to ensure that product is not adulterated.
[64 FR 56417, Oct. 20, 1999]
§ 416.2
Establishment grounds and facilities.
(a)
Grounds and pest control.
The grounds about an establishment must be maintained to prevent conditions that could lead to insanitary conditions, adulteration of product, or interfere with inspection by FSIS program employees. Establishments must have in place a pest management program to prevent the harborage and breeding of pests on the grounds and within establishment facilities. Pest control substances used must be safe and effective under the conditions of use and not be applied or stored in a manner that will result in the adulteration of product or the creation of insanitary conditions.
(b)
Construction.
(1) Establishment buildings, including their structures, rooms, and compartments must be of sound construction, be kept in good repair, and be of sufficient size to allow for processing, handling, and storage of product in a manner that does not result in product adulteration or the creation of insanitary conditions.
(2) Walls, floors, and ceilings within establishments must be built of durable materials impervious to moisture and be cleaned and sanitized as necessary to prevent adulteration of product or the creation of insanitary conditions.
(3) Walls, floors, ceilings, doors, windows, and other outside openings must be constructed and maintained to prevent the entrance of vermin, such as flies, rats, and mice.
(4) Rooms or compartments in which edible product is processed, handled, or stored must be separate and distinct from rooms or compartments in which inedible product is processed, handled, or stored, to the extent necessary to prevent product adulteration and the creation of insanitary conditions.
(c)
Light.
Lighting of good quality and sufficient intensity to ensure that sanitary conditions are maintained and that product is not adulterated must be provided in areas where food is processed, handled, stored, or examined; where equipment and utensils are cleaned; and in hand-washing areas, dressing and locker rooms, and toilets.
(d)
Ventilation.
Ventilation adequate to control odors, vapors, and condensation to the extent necessary to prevent adulteration of product and the creation of insanitary conditions must be provided.
(e)
Plumbing.
Plumbing systems must be installed and maintained to:
(1) Carry sufficient quantities of water to required locations throughout the establishment;
(2) Properly convey sewage and liquid disposable waste from the establishment;
(3) Prevent adulteration of product, water supplies, equipment, and utensils and prevent the creation of insanitary conditions throughout the establishment;
(4) Provide adequate floor drainage in all areas where floors are subject to flooding-type cleaning or where normal operations release or discharge water or other liquid waste on the floor;
(5) Prevent back-flow conditions in and cross-connection between piping systems that discharge waste water or sewage and piping systems that carry water for product manufacturing; and
(6) Prevent the backup of sewer gases.
(f)
Sewage disposal.
Sewage must be disposed into a sewage system separate
from all other drainage lines or disposed of through other means sufficient to prevent backup of sewage into areas where product is processed, handled, or stored. When the sewage disposal system is a private system requiring approval by a State or local health authority, the establishment must furnish FSIS with the letter of approval from that authority upon request.
(g)
Water supply and water, ice, and solution reuse.
(1) A supply of running water that complies with the National Primary Drinking Water regulations (40 CFR part 141), at a suitable temperature and under pressure as needed, must be provided in all areas where required (for processing product, for cleaning rooms and equipment, utensils, and packaging materials, for employee sanitary facilities, etc.). If an establishment uses a municipal water supply, it must make available to FSIS, upon request, a water report, issued under the authority of the State or local health agency, certifying or attesting to the potability of the water supply. If an establishment uses a private well for its water supply, it must make available to FSIS, upon request, documentation certifying the potability of the water supply that has been renewed at least semi-annually.
(2) Water, ice, and solutions (such as brine, liquid smoke, or propylene glycol) used to chill or cook ready-to-eat product may be reused for the same purpose, provided that they are maintained free of pathogenic organisms and fecal coliform organisms and that other physical, chemical, and microbiological contamination have been reduced to prevent adulteration of product.
(3) Water, ice, and solutions used to chill or wash raw product may be reused for the same purpose provided that measures are taken to reduce physical, chemical, and microbiological contamination so as to prevent contamination or adulteration of product. Reuse that which has come into contact with raw product may not be used on ready-to-eat product.
(4) Reconditioned water that has never contained human waste and that has been treated by an onsite advanced wastewater treatment facility may be used on raw product, except in product formulation, and throughout the facility in edible and inedible production areas, provided that measures are taken to ensure that this water meets the criteria prescribed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Product, facilities, equipment, and utensils coming in contact with this water must undergo a separate final rinse with non-reconditioned water that meets the criteria prescribed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(5) Any water that has never contained human waste and that is free of pathogenic organisms may be used in edible and inedible product areas, provided it does not contact edible product. For example, such reuse water may be used to move heavy solids, to flush the bottom of open evisceration troughs, or to wash antemortem areas, livestock pens, trucks, poultry cages, picker aprons, picking room floors, and similar areas within the establishment.
(6) Water that does not meet the use conditions of paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(5) of this section may not be used in areas where edible product is handled or prepared or in any manner that would allow it to adulterate edible product or create insanitary conditions.
(h)
Dressing rooms, lavatories, and toilets.
(1) Dressing rooms, toilet rooms, and urinals must be sufficient in number, ample in size, conveniently located, and maintained in a sanitary condition and in good repair at all times to ensure cleanliness of all persons handling any product. They must be separate from the rooms and compartments in which products are processed, stored, or handled.
(2) Lavatories with running hot and cold water, soap, and towels, must be placed in or near toilet and urinal rooms and at such other places in the establishment as necessary to ensure cleanliness of all persons handling any product.
(3) Refuse receptacles must be constructed and maintained in a manner that protects against the creation of insanitary conditions and the adulteration of product.
[64 FR 56417, Oct. 20, 1999]
§ 416.3
Equipment and utensils.
(a) Equipment and utensils used for processing or otherwise handling edible product or ingredients must be of such material and construction to facilitate thorough cleaning and to ensure that their use will not cause the adulteration of product during processing, handling, or storage. Equipment and utensils must be maintained in sanitary condition so as not to adulterate product.
(b) Equipment and utensils must not be constructed, located, or operated in a manner that prevents FSIS inspection program employees from inspecting the equipment or utensils to determine whether they are in sanitary condition.
(c) Receptacles used for storing inedible material must be of such material and construction that their use will not result in the adulteration of any edible product or in the creation of insanitary conditions. Such receptacles must not be used for storing any edible product and must bear conspicuous and distinctive marking to identify permitted uses.
[64 FR 56417, Oct. 20, 1999]
§ 416.4
Sanitary operations.
(a) All food-contact surfaces, including food-contact surfaces of utensils and equipment, must be cleaned and sanitized as frequently as necessary to prevent the creation of insanitary conditions and the adulteration of product.
(b) Non-food-contact surfaces of facilities, equipment, and utensils used in the operation of the establishment must be cleaned and sanitized as frequently as necessary to prevent the creation of insanitary conditions and the adulteration of product.
(c) Cleaning compounds, sanitizing agents, processing aids, and other chemicals used by an establishment must be safe and effective under the conditions of use. Such chemicals must be used, handled, and stored in a manner that will not adulterate product or create insanitary conditions. Documentation substantiating the safety of a chemical's use in a food processing environment must be available to FSIS inspection program employees for review.
(d) Product must be protected from adulteration during processing, handling, storage, loading, and unloading at and during transportation from official establishments.
[64 FR 56417, Oct. 20, 1999]
§ 416.5
Employee hygiene.
(a)
Cleanliness.
All persons working in contact with product, food-contact surfaces, and product-packaging materials must adhere to hygienic practices while on duty to prevent adulteration of product and the creation of insanitary conditions.
(b)
Clothing.
Aprons, frocks, and other outer clothing worn by persons who handle product must be of material that is disposable or readily cleaned. Clean garments must be worn at the start of each working day and garments must be changed during the day as often as necessary to prevent adulteration of product and the creation of insanitary conditions.
(c)
Disease control.
Any person who has or appears to have an infectious disease, open lesion, including boils, sores, or infected wounds, or any other abnormal source of microbial contamination, must be excluded from any operations which could result in product adulteration and the creation of insanitary conditions until the condition is corrected.
[64 FR 56417, Oct. 20, 1999]
§ 416.6
Tagging insanitary equipment, utensils, rooms or compartments.
When an FSIS program employee finds that any equipment, utensil, room, or compartment at an official establishment is insanitary or that its use could cause the adulteration of product, he will attach to it a “U.S. Rejected” tag. Equipment, utensils, rooms, or compartments so tagged cannot be used until made acceptable. Only an FSIS program employee may remove a “U.S. Rejected” tag.
[64 FR 56417, Oct. 20, 1999]
§ 416.11
General rules.
Each official establishment shall develop, implement, and maintain written standard operating procedures for
sanitation (Sanitation SOP's) in accordance with the requirements of this part.
§ 416.12
Development of Sanitation SOP's.
(a) The Sanitation SOP's shall describe all procedures an official establishment will conduct daily, before and during operations, sufficient to prevent direct contamination or adulteration of product(s).
(b) The Sanitation SOP's shall be signed and dated by the individual with overall authority on-site or a higher level official of the establishment. This signature shall signify that the establishment will implement the Sanitation SOP's as specified and will maintain the Sanitation SOP's in accordance with the requirements of this part. The Sanitation SOP's shall be signed and dated upon initially implementing the Sanitation SOP's and upon any modification to the Sanitation SOP's.
(c) Procedures in the Sanitation SOP's that are to be conducted prior to operations shall be identified as such, and shall address, at a minimum, the cleaning of food contact surfaces of facilities, equipment, and utensils.
(d) The Sanitation SOP's shall specify the frequency with which each procedure in the Sanitation SOP's is to be conducted and identify the establishment employee(s) responsible for the implementation and maintenance of such procedure(s).
§ 416.13
Implementation of SOP's.
(a) Each official establishment shall conduct the pre-operational procedures in the Sanitation SOP's before the start of operations.
(b) Each official establishment shall conduct all other procedures in the Sanitation SOP's at the frequencies specified.
(c) Each official establishment shall monitor daily the implementation of the procedures in the Sanitation SOP's.
§ 416.14
Maintenance of Sanitation SOP's.
Each official establishment shall routinely evaluate the effectiveness of the Sanitation SOP's and the procedures therein in preventing direct contamination or adulteration of product(s) and shall revise both as necessary to keep them effective and current with respect to changes in facilities, equipment, utensils, operations, or personnel.
§ 416.15
Corrective Actions.
(a) Each official establishment shall take appropriate corrective action(s) when either the establishment or FSIS determines that the establishment's Sanitation SOP's or the procedures specified therein, or the implementation or maintenance of the Sanitation SOP's, may have failed to prevent direct contamination or adulteration of product(s).
(b) Corrective actions include procedures to ensure appropriate disposition of product(s) that may be contaminated, restore sanitary conditions, and prevent the recurrence of direct contamination or adulteration of product(s), including appropriate reevaluation and modification of the Sanitation SOP's and the procedures specified therein or appropriate improvements in the execution of the Sanitation SOP's or the procedures specified therein.
[61 FR 38868, July 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 26219, May 13, 1997]
§ 416.16
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Each official establishment shall maintain daily records sufficient to document the implementation and monitoring of the Sanitation SOP's and any corrective actions taken. The establishment employee(s) specified in the Sanitation SOP's as being responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the procedure(s) specified in the Sanitation SOP's shall authenticate these records with his or her initials and the date.
(b) Records required by this part may be maintained on computers provided the establishment implements appropriate controls to ensure the integrity of the electronic data.
(c) Records required by this part shall be maintained for at least 6 months and made available to FSIS. All such records shall be maintained at the official establishment for 48 hours following completion, after which they
may be maintained off-site provided such records can be made available to FSIS within 24 hours of request.
§ 416.17
Agency verification.
FSIS shall verify the adequacy and effectiveness of the Sanitation SOP's and the procedures specified therein by determining that they meet the requirements of this part. Such verification may include:
(a) Reviewing the Sanitation SOP's;
(b) Reviewing the daily records documenting the implementation of the Sanitation SOP's and the procedures specified therein and any corrective actions taken or required to be taken;
(c) Direct observation of the implementation of the Sanitation SOP's and the procedures specified therein and any corrective actions taken or required to be taken; and
(d) Direct observation or testing to assess the sanitary conditions in the establishment.
Pt. 417

# PART 417—HAZARD ANALYSIS AND CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) SYSTEMS
Sec.
417.1
Definitions.
417.2
Hazard Analysis and HACCP plan.
417.3
Corrective actions.
417.4
Validation, Verification, Reassessment.
417.5
Records.
417.6
Inadequate HACCP Systems.
417.7
Training.
417.8
Agency verification.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695, 1031-1056; 7 U.S.C. 450, 1901-1906; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
61 FR 38868, July 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 417.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:
Corrective action.
Procedures to be followed when a deviation occurs.
Critical control point.
A point, step, or procedure in a food process at which control can be applied and, as a result, a food safety hazard can be prevented, eliminated, or reduced to acceptable levels.
Critical limit.
The maximum or minimum value to which a physical, biological, or chemical hazard must be controlled at a critical control point to prevent, eliminate, or reduce to an acceptable level the occurrence of the identified food safety hazard.
Food safety hazard.
Any biological, chemical, or physical property that may cause a food to be unsafe for human consumption.
HACCP System.
The HACCP plan in operation, including the HACCP plan itself.
Hazard.
SEE
Food Safety Hazard.
Preventive measure.
Physical, chemical, or other means that can be used to control an identified food safety hazard.
Process-monitoring instrument.
An instrument or device used to indicate conditions during processing at a critical control point.
Responsible establishment official.
The individual with overall authority on-site or a higher level official of the establishment.
§ 417.2
Hazard Analysis and HACCP Plan.
(a)
Hazard analysis.
(1) Every official establishment shall conduct, or have conducted for it, a hazard analysis to determine the food safety hazards reasonably likely to occur in the production process and identify the preventive measures the establishment can apply to control those hazards. The hazard analysis shall include food safety hazards that can occur before, during, and after entry into the establishment. A food safety hazard that is reasonably likely to occur is one for which a prudent establishment would establish controls because it historically has occurred, or because there is a reasonable possibility that it will occur in the particular type of product being processed, in the absence of those controls.
(2) A flow chart describing the steps of each process and product flow in the establishment shall be prepared, and the intended use or consumers of the finished product shall be identified.
(3) Food safety hazards might be expected to arise from the following:
(i) Natural toxins;
(ii) Microbiological contamination;
(iii) Chemical contamination;
(iv) Pesticides;
(v) Drug residues;
(vi) Zoonotic diseases;
(vii) Decomposition;
(viii) Parasites;
(ix) Unapproved use of direct or indirect food or color additives; and
(x) Physical hazards.
(b)
The HACCP plan.
(1) Every establishment shall develop and implement a written HACCP plan covering each product produced by that establishment whenever a hazard analysis reveals one or more food safety hazards that are reasonably likely to occur, based on the hazard analysis conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including products in the following processing categories:
(i) Slaughter—all species.
(ii) Raw product—ground.
(iii) Raw product—not ground.
(iv) Thermally processed—commercially sterile.
(v) Not heat treated—shelf stable.
(vi) Heat treated—shelf stable.
(vii) Fully cooked—not shelf stable.
(viii) Heat treated but not fully cooked—not shelf stable.
(ix) Product with secondary inhibitors—not shelf stable.
(2) A single HACCP plan may encompass multiple products within a single processing category identified in this paragraph, if the food safety hazards, critical control points, critical limits, and procedures required to be identified and performed in paragraph (c) of this section are essentially the same, provided that any required features of the plan that are unique to a specific product are clearly delineated in the plan and are observed in practice.
(3) HACCP plans for thermally processed/commercially sterile products do not have to address the food safety hazards associated with microbiological contamination if the product is produced in accordance with the requirements of part 431 of this chapter.
(c)
The contents of the HACCP plan.
The HACCP plan shall, at a minimum:
(1) List the food safety hazards identified in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, which must be controlled for each process.
(2) List the critical control points for each of the identified food safety hazards, including, as appropriate:
(i) Critical control points designed to control food safety hazards that could be introduced in the establishment, and
(ii) Critical control points designed to control food safety hazards introduced outside the establishment, including food safety hazards that occur before, during, and after entry into the establishment;
(3) List the critical limits that must be met at each of the critical control points. Critical limits shall, at a minimum, be designed to ensure that applicable targets or performance standards established by FSIS, and any other requirement set forth in this chapter pertaining to the specific process or product, are met;
(4) List the procedures, and the frequency with which those procedures will be performed, that will be used to monitor each of the critical control points to ensure compliance with the critical limits;
(5) Include all corrective actions that have been developed in accordance with § 417.3(a) of this part, to be followed in response to any deviation from a critical limit at a critical control point; and
(6) Provide for a recordkeeping system that documents the monitoring of the critical control points. The records shall contain the actual values and observations obtained during monitoring.
(7) List the verification procedures, and the frequency with which those procedures will be performed, that the establishment will use in accordance with § 417.4 of this part.
(d)
Signing and dating the HACCP plan.
(1) The HACCP plan shall be signed and dated by the responsible establishment individual. This signature shall signify that the establishment accepts and will implement the HACCP plan.
(2) The HACCP plan shall be dated and signed:
(i) Upon initial acceptance;
(ii) Upon any modification; and
(iii) At least annually, upon reassessment, as required under § 417.4(a)(3) of this part.
(e) Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 456, 463, 608, and 621, the failure of an establishment to develop and implement a HACCP plan that complies with this section, or to operate in accordance with the requirements of this part, may render
the products produced under those conditions adulterated.
[61 FR 38868, July 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 61009, Nov. 14, 1997; 83 FR 25308, May 31, 2018]
§ 417.3
Corrective actions.
(a) The written HACCP plan shall identify the corrective action to be followed in response to a deviation from a critical limit. The HACCP plan shall describe the corrective action to be taken, and assign responsibility for taking corrective action, to ensure:
(1) The cause of the deviation is identified and eliminated;
(2) The CCP will be under control after the corrective action is taken;
(3) Measures to prevent recurrence are established; and
(4) No product that is injurious to health or otherwise adulterated as a result of the deviation enters commerce.
(b) If a deviation not covered by a specified corrective action occurs, or if another unforeseen hazard arises, the establishment shall:
(1) Segregate and hold the affected product, at least until the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section are met;
(2) Perform a review to determine the acceptability of the affected product for distribution;
(3) Take action, when necessary, with respect to the affected product to ensure that no product that is injurious to health or otherwise adulterated, as a result of the deviation, enters commerce;
(4) Perform or obtain reassessment by an individual trained in accordance with § 417.7 of this part, to determine whether the newly identified deviation or other unforeseen hazard should be incorporated into the HACCP plan.
(c) All corrective actions taken in accordance with this section shall be documented in records that are subject to verification in accordance with § 417.4(a)(2)(iii) and the recordkeeping requirements of § 417.5 of this part.
§ 417.4
Validation, Verification, Reassessment.
(a) Every establishment shall validate the HACCP plan's adequacy in controlling the food safety hazards identified during the hazard analysis, and shall verify that the plan is being effectively implemented.
(1)
Initial validation.
Upon completion of the hazard analysis and development of the HACCP plan, the establishment shall conduct activities designed to determine that the HACCP plan is functioning as intended. During this HACCP plan validation period, the establishment shall repeatedly test the adequacy of the CCP's, critical limits, monitoring and recordkeeping procedures, and corrective actions set forth in the HACCP plan. Validation also encompasses reviews of the records themselves, routinely generated by the HACCP system, in the context of other validation activities.
(2)
Ongoing verification activities.
Ongoing verification activities include, but are not limited to:
(i) The calibration of process-monitoring instruments;
(ii) Direct observations of monitoring activities and corrective actions; and
(iii) The review of records generated and maintained in accordance with § 417.5(a)(3) of this part.
(3)(i)
Reassessment of the HACCP plan.
Every establishment shall reassess the adequacy of the HACCP plan at least annually and whenever any changes occur that could affect the hazard analysis or alter the HACCP plan. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, changes in: raw materials or source of raw materials; product formulation; slaughter or processing methods or systems; production volume; personnel; packaging; finished product distribution systems; or, the intended use or consumers of the finished product. The reassessment shall be performed by an individual trained in accordance with § 417.7 of this part. The HACCP plan shall be modified immediately whenever a reassessment reveals that the plan no longer meets the requirements of § 417.2(c) of this part.
(ii) Each establishment must make a record of each reassessment required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section and must document the reasons for any changes to the HACCP plan based on the reassessment, or the reasons for not changing the HACCP plan based on the reassessment. For annual reassessments, if the establishment determines that no changes are needed to its
HACCP plan, it is not required to document the basis for this determination.
(b)
Reassessment of the hazard analysis.
Any establishment that does not have a HACCP plan because a hazard analysis has revealed no food safety hazards that are reasonably likely to occur shall reassess the adequacy of the hazard analysis whenever a change occurs that could reasonably affect whether a food safety hazard exists. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, changes in: raw materials or source of raw materials; product formulation; slaughter or processing methods or systems; production volume; packaging; finished product distribution systems; or, the intended use or consumers of the finished product.
[61 FR 38868, July 25, 1996, as amended at 77 FR 26936, May 8, 2012]
§ 417.5
Records.
(a) The establishment shall maintain the following records documenting the establishment's HACCP plan:
(1) The written hazard analysis prescribed in § 417.2(a) of this part, including all supporting documentation;
(2) The written HACCP plan, including decisionmaking documents associated with the selection and development of CCP's and critical limits, and documents supporting both the monitoring and verification procedures selected and the frequency of those procedures.
(3) Records documenting the monitoring of CCP's and their critical limits, including the recording of actual times, temperatures, or other quantifiable values, as prescribed in the establishment's HACCP plan; the calibration of process-monitoring instruments; corrective actions, including all actions taken in response to a deviation; verification procedures and results; product code(s), product name or identity, or slaughter production lot. Each of these records shall include the date the record was made.
(b) Each entry on a record maintained under the HACCP plan shall be made at the time the specific event occurs and include the date and time recorded, and shall be signed or initialed by the establishment employee making the entry.
(c) Prior to shipping product, the establishment shall review the records associated with the production of that product, documented in accordance with this section, to ensure completeness, including the determination that all critical limits were met and, if appropriate, corrective actions were taken, including the proper disposition of product. Where practicable, this review shall be conducted, dated, and signed by an individual who did not produce the record(s), preferably by someone trained in accordance with § 417.7 of this part, or the responsible establishment official.
(d)
Records maintained on computers.
The use of records maintained on computers is acceptable, provided that appropriate controls are implemented to ensure the integrity of the electronic data and signatures.
(e)
Record retention.
(1) Establishments shall retain all records required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section as follows: for slaughter activities for at least one year; for refrigerated product, for at least one year; for frozen, preserved, or shelf-stable products, for at least two years.
(2) Off-site storage of records required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section is permitted after six months, if such records can be retrieved and provided, on-site, within 24 hours of an FSIS employee's request.
(f)
Official review.
All records required by this part and all plans and procedures required by this part shall be available for official review and copying.
§ 417.6
Inadequate HACCP Systems.
A HACCP system may be found to be inadequate if:
(a) The HACCP plan in operation does not meet the requirements set forth in this part;
(b) Establishment personnel are not performing tasks specified in the HACCP plan;
(c) The establishment fails to take corrective actions, as required by § 417.3 of this part;
(d) HACCP records are not being maintained as required in § 417.5 of this part; or
(e) Adulterated product is produced or shipped.
§ 417.7
Training.
(a) Only an individual who has met the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, but who need not be an employee of the establishment, shall be permitted to perform the following functions:
(1) Development of the HACCP plan, in accordance with § 417.2(b) of this part, which could include adapting a generic model that is appropriate for the specific product; and
(2) Reassessment and modification of the HACCP plan, in accordance with § 417.3 of this part.
(b) The individual performing the functions listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall have successfully completed a course of instruction in the application of the seven HACCP principles to meat, poultry, or egg products processing, including a segment on the development of a HACCP plan for a specific product and on record review.
[61 FR 38868, July 25, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 68672, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 417.8
Agency verification.
FSIS will verify the adequacy of the HACCP plan(s) by determining that each HACCP plan meets the requirements of this part and all other applicable regulations. Such verification may include:
(a) Reviewing the HACCP plan;
(b) Reviewing the CCP records;
(c) Reviewing and determining the adequacy of corrective actions taken when a deviation occurs;
(d) Reviewing the critical limits;
(e) Reviewing other records pertaining to the HACCP plan or system;
(f) Direct observation or measurement at a CCP;
(g) Sample collection and analysis to determine the product meets all safety standards; and
(h) On-site observations and record review.
Pt. 418

# PART 418—RECALLS
Sec.
418.1
[Reserved]
418.2
Notification.
418.3
Preparation and maintenance of written recall procedures.
418.4
Records.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
77 FR 26936, May 8, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 418.1
[Reserved]
§ 418.2
Notification.
Each official establishment must promptly notify the local FSIS District Office within 24 hours of learning or determining that an adulterated or misbranded meat, meat food, poultry, or poultry product received by or originating from the official establishment has entered commerce, if the official establishment believes or has reason to believe that this has happened. The official establishment must inform the District Office of the type, amount, origin, and destination of the adulterated or misbranded product.
§ 418.3
Preparation and maintenance of written recall procedures.
Each official establishment must prepare and maintain written procedures for the recall of any meat, meat food, poultry, or poultry product produced and shipped by the official establishment. These written procedures must specify how the official establishment will decide whether to conduct a product recall, and how the establishment will effect the recall, should it decide that one is necessary.
§ 418.4
Records.
All records, including records documenting procedures required by this part, must be available for official review and copying.
Pt. 424

# PART 424—PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OPERATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
424.1
Purpose and scope.

# Subpart C—Food Ingredients and Sources of Radiation
424.21
Use of food ingredients and sources of radiation.
424.22
Certain other permitted uses.
424.23
Prohibited uses.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1633, 1901-1906; 21 U.S.C. 451-472, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
64 FR 72175, Dec. 23, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 424.1
Purpose and scope.
This part of the regulations prescribes rules for the preparation of meat and the processing of poultry products. The rules in this part further the purposes of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) and the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) by, among other things, preventing the adulteration or misbranding of meat and poultry products at official establishments. 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter A, Parts 318 and 319, Subpart C of this part, and 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A or Subchapter B, specify rules for the use of certain food ingredients (e.g., food additives and color additives) and sources of radiation that may render meat or poultry products adulterated or misbranded.

# Subpart C—Food Ingredients and Sources of Radiation
§ 424.21
Use of food ingredients and sources of radiation.
(a)(1)
General.
No meat or poultry product shall bear or contain any food ingredient that would render it adulterated or misbranded, or which is not approved in this part, part 318 or part 319 of this chapter, or by the Administrator in specific cases.
(2)(i) Poultry products and poultry broth used in the processing of poultry products shall have been processed in the United States only in an official establishment or imported from a foreign country determined to be eligible to export such products to the United States under § 381.196(b), and have been inspected and passed in accordance with the regulations. Detached ova and offal shall not be used in the processing of any poultry products, except that poultry feet may be processed for use as human food in a manner approved by the Administrator in specific cases and detached ova may be used in the processing of poultry products if the processor demonstrates that such ova comply with the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(ii) Liquid, frozen, and dried egg products used in the processing of any poultry product shall have been prepared under inspection and be so marked in accordance with the Egg Products Inspection Act.
(3) Carcasses, parts thereof, and products of cattle, sheep, swine, goats, or equines may be used in the processing of poultry products only if they were prepared in the United States in an official meat packing establishment or imported from a foreign country determined to be eligible to export such products to the United States under § 327.2(b), were inspected and passed in accordance with the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the regulations under such Act (subchapter A of this chapter), and are so marked.
(b)(1)
Food ingredients and sources of radiation.
Food ingredients and sources of radiation listed or approved for use in the production of meat or poultry products in 21 CFR chapter I, subchapter A or subchapter B, shall be listed for such use under this chapter, subject to declaration requirements in parts 316 and 317, or subparts M and N, of part 381 of this chapter, unless precluded from such use or further restricted in parts 318 or 319, or subparts O and P, of part 381 of this chapter, or unless such use otherwise results in the adulteration or misbranding of meat or poultry products. Food ingredients and sources of radiation listed or approved for use in the production of meat or poultry products in 21 CFR Chapter I, subchapter A or subchapter B, may be listed or approved for such use under this chapter by the Administrator in § 424.21, subject to declaration requirements in parts 316 and 317, or subparts M and N, of part 381 of this chapter.
(2) No food ingredients or sources of radiation may be used in the preparation of any meat or poultry product, for any purpose, unless the use is listed or approved in 21 CFR chapter I as a direct food additive (21 CFR part 172), a secondary direct food additive (21 CFR part 173), indirect food additive (21 CFR parts 174-178), radiation source (21 CFR part 179), an interim-listed direct food additive (21 CFR part 180), a prior-sanctioned substance (21 CFR part 181), a Generally Recognized As Safe (GRAS) substance (21 CFR parts 182 or 184), or
by a regulation in this chapter. Part 319 of this chapter also specifies other food ingredients that are acceptable in preparing specified products.
(3) No food ingredient, the intended use of which is to impart color in any meat or poultry product, shall be used unless such use is approved in 21 CFR chapter I as a color additive (21 CFR Parts 73, 74, 81, and 82) or in a regulation in this chapter.
(4) Petitions to amend 21 CFR chapter I to provide for uses of food additives, or other substances or sources of radiation necessary in the preparation of meat or poultry products, or food ingredients used to impart color to product, should be sent to the Food and Drug Administration, in accordance with the provisions of 21 CFR parts 71 or 171, as appropriate.
(5) Inquiries concerning the regulatory status under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of any articles intended for use as components of, or in contact with, meat or poultry products, may be addressed to the Food and Drug Administration, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, 200 C Street, SW, Washington, DC 20204, or the Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Office of Policy, Program Development and Evaluation, Washington, DC 20250-3700.
(6) Inquiries concerning the use in specific meat or poultry products of substances that are not affirmed by the Food and Drug Administration as Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) or otherwise listed in 21 CFR part 182 or part 184, or of food or color additives listed in 21 CFR regulations for general use in foods or for use in meat, or poultry products, generally, including mixtures of such substances or additives, should be addressed to the Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Office of Policy, Program Development and Evaluation, Washington, DC 20250-3700.
(c) The food ingredients specified in the following chart are approved for use in the preparation of meat products, provided they are used for the purposes indicated, within the limit of the amounts stated, and under other conditions specified in this part and Part 317 of this chapter. Part 319 of this chapter specifies other food ingredients that are acceptable in preparing specified meat products. This chart also contains food ingredients that are acceptable for use in poultry products, provided they are used for the purpose indicated, within the limits of the amounts stated and under other conditions specified in this part. No meat or poultry product shall bear or contain any food ingredient that would render it adulterated or misbranded, or which is not approved in this part, or by the Administrator in specific cases.
Class of substance
Substance
Purpose
Products
Amount
Acidifiers
Acetic acid
To adjust acidity
Various meat and poultry products
2
Sufficient for purpose.
3
Citric acid
......do
......do
Do.
Glucono delta-lactone
......do
......do
Do.
Lactic acid
......do
......do
Do.
Phosphoric acid
......do
......do
Do.
Tartaric acid
......do
......do
Do.
Anti-coagulants
Citric acid
To prevent clotting
Fresh blood of livestock
0.2 percent with or without water. When water is used to make a solution of citric acid added to the blood of livestock, not more than 2 parts of water to 1 part of citric acid shall be used.
Sodium citrate
......do
......do
Not to exceed 0.5 percent based on the ingoing weight of the product. When water is used to make a solution of sodium citrate added to livestock blood, not more than 2 parts of water to 1 part of sodium citrate shall be used.
Antifoaming agent
Methyl polysilicone
To retard foaming
Soups (meat and poultry)
10 ppm.
......do
Rendered fats (meat and poultry)
Do.
......do
Curing pickle (meat and poultry)
50 ppm.
Antimicrobial Agents
Potassium lactate
To inhibit microbial growth
Various meat and poultry products, except infant formulas and infant food
4.8% by weight of total formulation.
Sodium diacetate
......do
......do
0.25% by weight of total formulation.
Sodium lactate
......do
......do
4.8% by weight of total formulation.
Trisodium phosphate
To reduce microbial levels
Raw, chilled poultry carcasses
8 to 12 percent; solution to be maintained at 45 °F. to 55 °F. and applied by spraying or dipping carcasses for up to 15 seconds when used in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1778.
Antioxidants and oxygen interceptors
Ascorbyl palmitate
To retard rancidity
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.02 percent (by wt. of finished product) individually or in combination with other antioxidants approved for use in margarine.
Ascorbyl stearate
BHA (butylated hydroxyanisole)
......do
Dry sausage
0.003 based on total weight
0.006 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat
0.01 percent
0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Fresh pork, sausage, brown and serve sausages, fresh Italian sausage products, pregrilled beef patties, fresh sausage made from beef or beef and pork, cooked or raw pizza topping and cooked or raw meatballs
0.01 percent based on fat content
0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat, based on fat content.
......do
Dried meats
0.01 percent based on total weight
0.01 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.02 percent (by wt. of the finished product) individually or in combination with other antioxidants approved for use in margarine.
......do
Various poultry products
0.01 percent based on fat content (0.02 percent in combination with any other antioxidant for use in poultry) based on fat content.
BHT (butylated hydroxytoluene)
......do
Dry sausage
0.003 percent based on total weight 0.006 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat
0.01 percent
0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Fresh pork, sausage, brown and serve sausages, fresh Italian sausage products, pregrilled beef patties, fresh sausage made from beef or beef and pork, cooked or raw pizza topping and cooked or raw meatballs
0.01 percent based on fat content
0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat, based on fat content.
......do
Dried meats
0.01 percent based on total weight
0.01 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.02 percent (by wt. of the finished product) individually or in combination with other antioxidants approved for use in margarine.
......do
Various poultry products
0.01 percent based on fat content (0.02 percent in combination with any other antioxidant for use in poultry) based on fat content.
Dodecyl gallate
......do
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.02 percent (by wt. of the finished product) individually or in combination with other antioxidants approved for use in margarine.
Glycine
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat
0.01 percent 0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
Octyl gallate
......do
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.02 percent (by wt. of the finished product) individually or in combination with other antioxidants approved for use in margarine.
Propyl gallate
......do
Dry sausage
0.003 percent based on total weight 0.006 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat
0.01 percent
0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Fresh pork, sausage, brown and serve sausages, fresh Italian sausage products, pregrilled beef patties, fresh sausage made from beef or beef and pork, cooked or raw pizza topping and cooked or raw meatballs
0.01 percent based on fat content
0.02 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat, based on fat content.
......do
Dried meats
0.01 percent based on total weight
0.01 percent in combination with other anti-oxidants for use in meat.
......do
Margarine or oleo-margarine
0.02 percent (by wt. of the finished product) individually or in combination with other antioxidants approved for use in margarine.
......do
Various poultry products
0.01 percent based on fat content (0.02 percent in combination with any other antioxidant for use in poultry, except TBHQ, based on fat content).
Resin guaiac
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat 0.01 percent
0.02 percent in combination with other antioxidants for use in meat.
TBHQ (tertiary butylhydroquinone)
......do
Dry sausage 0.003 percent based on weight
0.006 percent in combina-tion only with BHA and/or BHT.
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat
0.01 percent
0.02 percent in combina-tion only with BHA or BHT.
......do
Fresh pork, sausage, brown and serve sausages, fresh Italian sausage products, pregrilled beef patties, fresh sausage made from beef or beef and pork, cooked or raw pizza topping and cooked or raw meatballs
0.01 percent based on fat content
0.02 percent in combin-ation only with BHA and/ or BHT, based on fat content.
......do
Dried meats
0.01 percent based on total weight
0.01 percent in combina-tion only with BHA and/or BHT.
......do
Margarine or oleo-margarine
0.02 percent alone or in combination only with BHA and/or BHT, based on oil or fat content.
......do
Various poultry products
0.01 percent based on fat content (0.02 percent in combination only with BHA and/or BHT, based on fat content).
Tocopherols
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat and vegetable fat
0.03 percent. A 30 percent concentration of tocopherols in vegetable oils shall be used when added as an antioxidant to products designated as “lard” or “rendered pork fat.”
......do
Dry sausage, semidry sausage, dried meats, uncooked or cooked fresh sausage made with beef and/or pork, uncooked or cooked Italian sausage products, uncooked or cooked meatballs, uncooked or cooked meat pizza toppings, brown and serve sausages, pregrilled beef patties, and restructured meats
Not to exceed 0.03 percent based on fat content. Not used in combination with other antioxidants.
......do
Various poultry products
0.03 percent based on fat content (0.02 percent in combination with any other antioxidant for use in poultry, except TBHQ, based on fat content).
Artificial Sweeteners
Saccharin
To sweeten product
Bacon
0.01 percent.
Binders and Extenders
Agar-agar
To stabilize and thicken
Thermally processed canned and jellied meat food products
0.25 percent of finished product.
Algin
To extend and stabilize product
Breading mix; sauces (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
A mixture of sodium alginate, calcium carbonate and calcium lactate/lactic acid (or glucono delta lactone)
To bind meat pieces
Restructured meat food products
Sodium alginate not to exceed 1.0 percent; calcium carbonate not to exceed 0.2 percent; and lactic acid/calcium lactate (or glucono delta-lactone) not to exceed 0.3 percent of product formulation. Added mixture may not exceed 1.5 percent of product at formulation. Mixture ingredients must be added dry.
A mixture of sodium alginate, calcium carbonate, lactic acid, and calcium lactate
To bind poultry pieces
Ground and formed raw or cooked poultry pieces
Sodium alginate not more than 0.8 percent, calcium carbonate not more than 0.15 percent; lactic acid and calcium lactate, in combination, not more than 0.6 percent of product formulation. Added mixture may not exceed 1.55 percent of product at formulation. The mixture must be added in dry form.
Bread
To bind and extend product
Bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
......do
Spaghetti with meat balls and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
Carboxymethyl cellulose (cellulose gum)
To extend and stabilize product
Baked pies (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
Carrageenan
To extend and stabilize product
Breading mix; sauces (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
To prevent purging of brine solution
Cured pork products as provided in 9 CFR 319.104(d)
Not to exceed 1.5 percent of product formulation; permitted in combination only with soy protein concentrate, combination not to exceed 1.5 percent of product formulation; in accordance with 21 CFR 172.620, 172.623, and 172.626.
Carrageenan, Locust bean gum, and Xanthan gum blend
......do
......do
In combination, not to exceed 0.5 percent of formulation; not permitted in combination with other binders approved for use in cured pork products; in accordance with 21 CFR 172.620, 172.623, 172.626, 184.1343, and 172.695.
Cereal
To bind and extend product
Sausages as provided in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
Dried milk
......do
Sausages as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat
Dried skim milk, calcium reduced
......do
Sausages as provided in 9 CFR 9 CFR Part 319
Do.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
Enzyme (rennet) treated with calcium reduced dried skim milk and calcium lactate
......do
Sausages as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319
3.5 percent total finished product (calcium lactate required at rate of 10 percent of binder.)
......do
Imitation sausages; nonspecific loaves; soups, stews (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5 (calcium lactate required at a rate of 10 percent of binder).
Enzyme (rennet) treated with sodium caseinate and calcium lactate
......do
Imitation sausages; nonspecific loaves; soups, stews (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5 (calcium lactate required at a rate of 25 percent of binder).
Food starch modified
To prevent purging of brine solution
Cured pork products as provided for in 9 CFR 319.104(d)
Not to exceed 2 percent of product formulation in “Ham Water Added” and “Ham with Natural Juices” products; not to exceed 3.5 percent of product formulation in “Ham and Water Product—X percent of Weight is Added Ingredients” products; permitted in combination only with soy protein concentrate, with combination of modified food starch at 3 percent of product formulation and soy protein concentrate at 0.5 percent of product formulation; in accordance with 21 CFR 172.892.
Gelatin
To bind and extend product
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
Gums, vegetable
......do
Egg roll (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
Isolated soy protein
......do
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
2 percent.
......do
Imitation sausages; nonspecific loaves; soups; stews (meat only) and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat.
......do
Spaghetti with meatballs and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
To prevent purging of brine solution
Cured pork products as provided for in 9 CFR 319.104(d)
Not to exceed 2 percent of product formulation, not permitted in combination with other binders approved for use in cured pork products.
Methyl cellulose
To extend and stabilize product (also carrier)
Meat and vegetable patties; various poultry products
0.15 percent.
Sodium caseinate
To bind and extend product
Imitation sausages, nonspecific loaves, soups, stews (meat only)
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1748 and 21 CFR 172.5.
......do
Sausages as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319
2 percent in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1748.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1748.
......do
Spaghetti with meatballs and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1748.
To prevent purging of brine solution
Cured pork products as provided for in 9 CFR 319.104(d)
Not to exceed 2 percent of product formulation; not permitted in combination with other binders approved for use in cured pork products, in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1748.
To bind and extend product
Various poultry products
3 percent in cooked product, 2 percent in raw product, in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5 and 182.1748.
Soy flour
......do
Sausages as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Spaghetti with meatballs and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
Soy protein concentrate
......do
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Spaghetti with meatballs and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
To prevent purging of brine solution
Cured pork products as provided for in 9 CFR 319.104(d)
Not to exceed 3.5 percent of product formulation; permitted in combination only with modified food starch, with combination of modified food starch at 3 percent of product formulation and soy protein concentrate at 0.5 percent of product formulation; in combination only with carrageenan, combination not to exceed 1.5 percent of product formulation.
Starchy vegetable flour
To bind and extend product
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
Tapioca dextrin
......do
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1277.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1277.
......do
Spaghetti with meatballs and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1277.
......do
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1277.
Vegetable starch
......do
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
Wheat gluten
To bind and extend product
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1322.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1322.
......do
Spaghetti with meatballs and sauce, spaghetti with meat and sauce and similar products
12 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1322.
......do
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1322.
Whey, Dry or dried
To bind or thicken
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Imitation sausages, nonspecific loaves, soups, stews (meat only)
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans, pork or beef with barbecue sauce
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1322.
Whey, Reduced lactose
To bind or thicken
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Imitation sausages, nonspecific loaves, soups, stews (meat only)
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans, pork or beef with barbecue sauce
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
Whey, Reduced minerals
......do
Sausage as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
......do
Imitation sausages, nonspecific loaves, soups, stews (meat only)
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans, pork or beef with barbecue sauce
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat.
Whey protein concentrate
......do
Sausage as provided in 9 CFR Part 319, bockwurst
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1979c.
......do
Imitation sausages, nonspecific loaves, soups, stews
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1979c.
......do
Chili con carne, chili con carne with beans, pork or beef with barbecue sauce
8 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1979c
To bind meat pieces
Restructured meat food products, whole muscle meat cuts
3.5 percent individually or collectively with other binders and extenders for use in meat, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1979c.
Xanthan gum
To maintain: uniform viscosity; suspension of particulate matter, emulsion stability; freeze-thaw stability
Meat sauces, gravies or sauces and meats, canned or frozen and/or refrigerated meat salads, canned or frozen meat stews, canned chili or chili with beans, pizza topping mixes and batter or breading mixes
Sufficient for purpose in accordance with 21 CFR 172.5.
......do
Various poultry products, except uncooked products or sausages or other products with a moisture limitation established by Subpart P of Part 381
Sufficient for purpose
Bleaching Agent
Hydrogen peroxide
To remove color
Tripe (substance must be removed from product by rinsing with clear water)
Sufficient for purpose.
Catalysts (substances must be eliminated during process)
Nickel
To accelerate chemical reaction
Rendered animal fats or a combination of such fats and vegetable fats
Do.
Sodium amide
Rearrangement of fatty acid radicals
......do
Do.
Sodium methoxide
......do
......do
Chilling Media
Salt (NaCl)
To aid in chilling
Raw poultry products
700 lbs. to 10,000 gallons of water.
Coloring Agents (artificial)
Coal tar dyes (FD
C certified)
To color products
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Color additives listed in 21 CFR Part 74, Subpart A of Part 82, Subpart B (operator must furnish evidence to inspector in charge that color additive has been certified for use in connection with foods by the Food and Drug Administration)
To color casings or rendered fats; marking and branding product
Sausage casings, oleomargarine, shortening, marking or branding ink on product (meat only)
Sufficient for purpose (may be mixed with approved natural coloring matters or harmless inert material such as common salt and sugar).
Titanium oxide
To whiten
Canned ham salad spread and creamed-type canned meat products. Poultry salads and poultry spreads
0.5 percent.
Coloring Agents (natural)
Alkanet, annatto, carotene, cochineal, green chlorophyll, saffron and tumeric
To color casings or rendered fats; marking and branding product
Sausage casings, oleomargarine, shortening, marking or branding ink on product (meat only)
Sufficient for purpose (may be mixed with approved artificial dyes or harmless inert material such as common salt and sugar).
Annatto, carotene
To color products
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Curing accelerators (must be used only in combination with curing agents)
Ascorbic acid
To accelerate color fixing or preserve color during storage
Cured pork and beef cuts, cured poultry, cured comminuted poultry and meat food products
75 oz to 100 gal pickle at 10 percent pump level;
3/4
oz to 100 lb meat, meat byproduct or poultry product; 10 percent solution to surfaces of cured meat cuts or poultry products prior to packaging. (The use of such solution shall not result in the addition of a significant amount of moisture to the product).
Citric acid or sodium citrate
To accelerate color fixing or preserve color during storage
Cured pork and beef cuts, cured comminuted meat food product, cured comminuted poultry or poultry products
May be used in cured meat products or in 10 percent solution used to spray surfaces of cured meat cuts prior to packaging to replace up to 50 percent of the ascorbic acid, erythorbic acid, sodium ascorbate, or sodium erythorbate that is used. May be used in cured poultry products to replace 50 percent of the ascorbic acid or sodium ascorbate that is used.
Erythorbic acid
To accelerate color fixing or preserve color during storage
Cured pork and beef cuts, cured poultry, cured comminuted poultry and meat food products
75 oz to 100 gal pickle at 10 percent pump level;
3/4
oz to 100 lb meat, meat byproduct or poultry product; 10 percent solution to surfaces of cured meat cuts or poultry products prior to packaging. (The use of such solution shall not result in the addition of a significant amount of moisture to the product).
Fumaric acid
......do
Cured, comminuted meat, poultry or meat and poultry products
0.065 percent (or 1 oz to 100 lb) of the weight of the meat, poultry or the meat or poultry byproducts before processing.
Glucono delta lactone
......do
Cured, comminuted meat or meat food product
8 oz to each 100 lb of meat or meat byproduct.
......do
Genoa salami
16 oz to 100 lb of meat (1.0 percent).
Sodium acid pyrophosphate
......do
Frankfurters, wieners, vienna, bologna, garlic bologna, knockwurst and similar products
Not to exceed alone or in combination with other curing accelerators for use in meat the following: 8 oz in 100 lb of meat, or meat and meat byproducts, content of the formula; nor 0.5 percent in the finished product.
Sodium ascorbate
To accelerate color fixing or preserve color during storage
Cured pork and beef cuts, cured comminuted meat food product, cured comminuted poultry or poultry products
87.5 oz to 100 gal pickle at 10 percent pump level;
7/8
oz to 100 lb meat, meat byproduct or poultry product; 10 percent solution to surfaces of cured meat cuts or poultry products prior to packaging. (The use of such solution shall not result in the addition of a significant amount of moisture to the product).
Sodium erythorbate
To accelerate color fixing or preserve color during storage
Cured pork and beef cuts, cured comminuted meat food products, cured comminuted poultry or poultry products
87.5 oz to 100 gal pickle at 10 percent pump level;
7/8
oz to 100 lb meat, meat byproduct or poultry product; 10 percent solution to surfaces of cured meat cuts or poultry products prior to packaging. (The use of such solution shall not result in the addition of a significant amount of moisture to the product.)
Curing Agents
Sodium or potassium nitrate
Source of nitrite
Cured meat products other than bacon. Nitrates may not be used in baby, junior, and toddler foods. Cured, comminuted poultry or poultry products
7 lb to 100 gal pickle; 3
1/2
oz to 100 lb meat or poultry product (dry cure); 2
3/4
oz to 100 lb chopped meat or poultry.
Sodium or potassium nitrite (supplies of sodium nitrite and potassium nitrite and mixtures containing them must be kept under the care of a responsible employee of the establishment. The specific nitrite content of such supplies must be known and clearly marked accordingly)
To fix color
Cured meat and poultry products. Nitrites may not be used in baby, junior, or toddler foods
2 lb to 100 gal pickle at 10 percent pump level; 1 oz to 100 lb meat or poultry product (dry cure);
1/4
oz to 100 lb chopped meat, meat byproduct or poultry product. The use of nitrites, nitrates or combination shall not result in more than 200 ppm of nitrite, calculated as sodium nitrite in finished product, except that nitrites may be used in bacon only in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
Denuding Agents (may be used in combination. Must be removed from tripe by rinsing with potable water.)
Lime (calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide)
To denude mucous membranes
Tripe
Sufficient for purpose.
Sodium carbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium citrate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium gluconate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium hydroxide
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium persulfate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium silicates (ortho, meta, and sesqui)
......do
......do
Do.
Trisodium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Emulsifying Agents
Actylated monoglycerides
To emulsify product
Shortening and various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono-and diglycerides
......do
......do
Do.
Glycerol-lacto stearate, oleate, or palmitate
......do
......do
Do.
Lecithin
To emulsify product (also as an antioxidant)
Oleomargarine, shortening, various meat and poultry products
0.5 percent in oleomargarine, use in other products—sufficient amount for emulsification.
Mono and diglycerides (glycerol palmitate, etc.)
To emulsify product
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat with vegetable fat; oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose in lard and shortening; 0.5 percent in oleomargarine.
......do
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Mono and diglycerides of fatty acids esterified with any of the following acids: acetic, acetyltartaric, citric, lactic, tartaric, and their sodium and calcium salts; the sodium sulfoacetate derivatives of these mono and diglycerides
......do
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.5 percent.
Polyglycerol esters of fatty acids (polyglycerol esters of fatty acids are restricted to those up to and including the decaglycerol esters and otherwise meeting the requirements of § 172.854(a) of the Food Additive Regulations)
......do
Rendered animal fat or a combination of such fat with vegetable fat when use is not precluded by standards of identity of composition; oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose for rendered animal fat or combination with vegetable fat; 0.5 percent for oleomargarine.
Polysorbate 60 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate)
......do
Shortening for use in nonstandardized baked goods, baking mixes, icings, fillings, and toppings and in the frying of foods (meat only). Rendered poultry fat or a combination of such fat with vegetable fat
1 percent when used alone. If used with polysorbate 80 the combined total shall not exceed 1 percent.
Polysorbate 80 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate)
......do
Shortening for use in nonstandardized baked goods, baking mixes, icings, fillings, and toppings and in the frying of foods (meat only). Various poultry products
1 percent when used alone. If used with polysorbate 60 the combined total shall not exceed 1 percent.
1,2-propylene glycol esters of fatty acids
......do
Margarine or oleomargarine
2.0 percent.
Propylene glycol mono and diesters of fats and fatty acids
......do
Rendered animal or poultry fat or a combination of such fat with vegetable fat
Sufficient for purpose.
Stearyl-2-lactylic acid
......do
Shortening to be used for cake icings and fillings (meat only)
3.0 percent.
Stearyl monoglyceridyl citrate
......do
Shortening
Sufficient for purpose
Film Forming Agents
A mixture consisting of water, sodium alginate, calcium chloride, sodium carboxymethyl-cellulose, and corn syrup solids
To reduce cooler shrinkage and help protect surface
Freshly dressed meat carcasses. Such carcasses must bear a statement “Protected with a film of water, corn syrup solids, sodium alginate, calcium chloride and sodium carboxymethyl-cellulose.”
Formulation may not exceed 1.5 percent of hot carcass weight when applied. Chilled weight may not exceed hot weight.
Flavoring Agents; Protectors and Developers
Artificial smoke flavoring
To flavor product
Various (meat and poultry)
2
Sufficient for purpose.
Autolyzed yeast extract
......do
......do
Do.
Benzoic acid (sodium, potassium and calcium salts)
To retard flavor reversion
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.1 percent individually, or if used in combination with other flavoring agents for use in meat or with sorbic acid and its salts, 0.2 percent (expressed as the acids in the wt. of the finished foods).
Calcium lactate
To protect flavor
Cooked semi-dry and dry products including sausage, imitation sausage, and nonspecific meat food sticks
0.6 percent in product formulation.
Citric acid
......do
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Flavoring
Chili con carne
Do.
Corn syrup solids; corn syrup; glucose syrup
To flavor product
Various poultry products, sausage, hamburger, meat loaf, luncheon meat, chopped or pressed ham
Do.
Dextrose
......do
Sausage, ham and cured products
Do.
Diacetyl
......do
Oleomargarine
Do.
Disodium guanylate
......do
Various meat and poultry products.
2
Disodium inosinate
......do
......do
Do.
Harmless bacteria starters of the acidophilus type, lactic acid starter or culture of
Pediococcus cerevisiae
To develop flavor
Dry sausage, pork roll, thuringer, lebanon bologna, cervelat, and salami
0.5 percent.
Harmless lactic acid producing bacteria
To prevent the growth of
Clostridium botulinum
Bacon
Sufficient for purpose.
Hydrolyzed plant protein
To flavor product
Various meat and poultry products.
2
Do.
Isopropyl citrate
To protect flavor
Oleomargarine
0.02 percent.
Malt syrup
To flavor product
Cured meat products
2.5 percent.
......do
Various poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Milk protein hydrolysate
......do
Various meat and poultry products.
2
Do.
Monoammonium glutamate
......do
......do
Do.
Monosodium glutamate
......do
......do
Do.
Potassium lactate
......do
Various meat and meat food products, poultry and poultry food products, except infant formula and infant food.
2
Not to exceed 2 percent of formulation; in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1639.
Smoke flavoring
To flavor product
Various meat and poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Sodium acetate
To flavor products
Various meat and poultry products
Not to exceed 0.25% of formulate in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1721.
Sodium diacetate
......do
......do
Not to exceed 0.25% of formulate in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1754.
Sodium lactate
......do
Various meat and meat food products, poultry and poultry food products, except infant formula and infant food.
2
Not to exceed 2 percent of formulation in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1768.
Sodium sulfoacetate derivative of mono and diglycerids
......do
Various meat and poultry products.
2
0.5 percent.
Sodium tripolyphosphate
To help protect flavor
“Fresh Beef,”
2
“Beef for further cooking, “Cooked Beef,” Beef Patties, Meat Loaves, Meat Toppings, and similar products derived from pork, lamb, veal, mutton, and goat meat which are cooked or frozen after processing
0.5 percent of total product.
Sodium tripolyphosphate and sodium mixtures, metaphosphate, insoluble; and sodium polyphosphates, glassy
......do
......do
Do.
Sorbitol
To flavor, to facilitate the removal of casings from product, and to reduce caramelization and charring
Cooked sausage labeled frankfurter, frank, furter, wiener, and knockwurst; cured pork and pork products, as provided for in 9 CFR Part 319
Not to exceed 2 percent of the weight of the formula excluding the formula weight of water or ice, when used in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1835.
Starter distillate
To help protect flavor
Oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
Stearyl citrate
......do
......do
0.15 percent.
Sugars (sucrose and dextrose)
To flavor product
Various meat and poultry products
Sufficient for purpose.
Gases
Carbon dioxide liquid
Contact freezing
Various poultry products
Do.
Carbon dioxide solid (dry ice)
To cool product
Chopping of meat, packing of product
Sufficient for purpose.
To cool product or facilitate chopping or packaging
Various poultry products
Do.
Nitrogen
To exclude oxygen from sealed containers
Various meat and poultry products
Do.
Nitrogen, liquid
Contact freezant
......do
Do.
Hog Scald Agents (must be removed by subsequent cleaning operations)
Caustic soda
To remove hair
Hog carcasses
Sufficient for purpose.
Dicotyl sodium sulfosuccinate
......do
......do
Do.
Dimethylpolysiloxane
......do
......do
Do.
Disodium-calcium ethylenediaminetetra-acetate
......do
......do
Do.
Disodium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (sodium salts)
......do
......do
Do.
Lime (calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide)
......do
......do
Do.
Potassium hydroxide
Do.
Propylene glycol
......do
......do
Do.
Soap (prepared by the reaction of calcium, potassium, or sodium with rosin or fatty acids of natural fats and oils)
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium acid pyrophosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium carbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium gluconate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium hexametaphosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium lauryl sulfate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium mono and dimethylnaphthalene sulfonate (molecular weight 245-260)
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium n-alkylbenzene sulfonate (alkyl group predominantly C12 and C13 and not less than 95 percent C10 and C16)
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium pyrophosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium silicates (ortho, meta, and sesqui)
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium sulfate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium tripolyphosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sucrose
......do
......do
Do.
Triethanolamine dodecylbenzene sulfonate
......do
......do
Do.
Trisodium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Miscellaneous
Adipic acid
To acidify
Margarine or oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
Ascorbic acid, erythorbic acid, citric acid, sodium ascorbate and sodium citrate, singly or in combination
To delay discoloration
Fresh beef cuts, fresh lamb cuts, and fresh pork cuts
Not to exceed, singly or in combination, 500 ppm or 1.8 mg/sq inch of product surface of ascorbic acid (in accordance with 21 CFR 182.3013), erythorbic acid (in accordance with 21 CFR 182.3041), or sodium ascorbate (in accordance with 21 CFR 182.3731); and/or not to exceed, singly or in combination, 250 ppm or 0.9 mg/sq inch of product surface of citric acid (in accordance with 21 CFR 182.6033), or sodium citrate (in accordance with 21 CFR 182.6751).
Calcium disodium, EDTA (calcium disodium ethylene-diaminetetraacetate
To preserve product and to protect flavor
Margarine or oleomargarine
75 ppm by weight of the finished oleomargarine or margarine.
Calcium propionate
To retard mold growth
Pizza crust
0.32 percent alone or in combination based on weight of the flour brace used.
......do
Fresh pie dough (poultry only)
0.3 percent of calcium propionate or sodium propionate alone, or in combination, based on weight of flour used.
Citric acid
To preserve cured color during storage
Cured pork cuts
Not to exceed 30 percent in water solution used to spray surfaces of cured cuts, prior to packaging, in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1033. (The use of such solution shall not result in the addition of a significant amount of moisture to the product and shall be applied only once to product).
Citric acid (sodium and potassium salts)
To acidify
Margarine and oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
d- and dl-alpha-tocopherol
To inhibit nitrosamine formation
Pump-cured bacon
500 ppm; by injection or surface application.
Dipotassium phosphate
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Meat food products except where otherwise prohibited by the meat inspection regulations and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations.
For meat food products, 5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry food products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Disodium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Glycerine
Humectant
Shelf stable meat snacks
Not to exceed 2 percent of the formulation weight of the product in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1320.
Hydrochloric acid
To acidify
Margarine or oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
Lactic acid (sodium and potassium salts)
......do
......do
Do.
L-Tartaric acid (sodium and sodium potassium salts)
......do
......do
Do.
Monopotassium phosphate
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Meat food products except where otherwise prohibited by the meat inspection regulations and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations.
For meat food products, 5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Monosodium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Phosphoric acid
To acidify
Margarine or oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
Potassium bicarbonate
To alkalize
Margarine or oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
Potassium carbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Potassium pyrophosphate
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Meat food products except where otherwise prohibited by the meat inspection regulations and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations.
5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry food products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Potassium sorbate
To retard mold growth
Dry sausage
10 percent in water solution may be applied to casings after stuffing or casings may be dipped in solution prior to stuffing.
Potassium tripolyphosphate
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Meat food products except where otherwise prohibited by the meat inspection regulations and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations
5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry food products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Propyl paraben (propyl p-hydroxy-benzoate)
To retard mold growth
Dry sausage
3.5 percent in water solution may be applied to casings after stuffing or casings may be dipped in solution prior to stuffing.
Silicon dioxide
Processing aid/dispersant
Tocopherol containing bacon curing mixes
At level not to exceed 4.0 percent in the dry mix.
Sodium acid pyrophosphate
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Meat food products except where other prohibited by the meat inspection regulations and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations.
For meat food products, 5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Sodium bicarbonate
To neutralize excess acidity, cleaning vegetables
Rendered fats, soups, curing pickle (meat and poultry)
Sufficient for purpose.
To alkalize
Margarine or oleomargarine
Do.
Sodium carbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium citrate buffered with citric acid to a pH of 5.6
To inhibit the growth of micro-organisms and retain product flavor during storage
Cured and uncured, processed whole muscle meat and poultry food products, e.g., ham, chicken breasts
Not to exceed 1.3 percent of the formulation weight of the product in accordance with 21 CFR 184.1751.
Sodium hydroxide
To alkalize
Margarine or oleomargarine
Sufficient for purpose.
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Poultry food products containing phosphates
May be used only in combination with phosphate in a ratio not to exceed one part sodium hydroxide to four parts phosphate.
......do
Meat food products containing phosphates
May be used only in combination with phosphates in a ratio not to exceed one part sodium hydroxide to four parts phosphate; the combination shall not exceed 5 percent in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent in product.
Sodium metaphosphate, insoluble
......do
Meat food products except where other prohibited by the meat inspection regulations, and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations
For meat food products, 5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Sodium polyphosphate, glassy
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium proprionate
To retard mold growth
Pizza crust
0.32 percent alone or in combination based on weight of the flour brace used.
......do
Fresh pie dough (poultry only)
0.3 percent of calcium proprionate or sodium proprionate alone, or in combination, based on weight of flour used.
Sodium pryophosphate
To decrease the amount of cooked out juices
Meat food products except where otherwise prohibited by the meat inspection regulations and poultry food products except where otherwise prohibited by the poultry products inspection regulations
For meat food products, 5 percent of phosphate in pickle at 10 percent pump level; 0.5 percent of phosphate in meat food product (only clear solution may be injected into meat food product). For poultry products, 0.5 percent of total product.
Sodium tripolyphosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sorbic acid (sodium, potassium, and calcium salts)
To preserve product and to retard mold growth
Margarine or oleomargarine
0.1 percent individually, or if used in combination or with benzoic acid or its salts, 0.2 percent (expressed as the acids in the wt. of the finished foods).
Tricalcium phosphate
To preserve product color during dehydration process
Mechanically deboned chicken to be dehydrated
Not to exceed 2 percent of the weight of the mechanically deboned chicken prior to dehydration, in accordance with 21 CFR 182.1217.
Poultry scald agents (must be removed by subsequent cleaning operations)
Alpha-hydro-omega-hydroxy-poly (oxyethylene) poly (oxypropylene) (minimum 15 moles) poly (oxyethylene) block copolymer (poloxamer)
To remove feathers
Poultry carcasses
Not to exceed 0.05 percent by weight in scald water.
Dimethylpolysiloxane
......do
......do
Sufficient for purpose.
Dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate
......do
......do
Do.
Dipotassium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (sodium salts)
......do
......do
Do.
Lime (calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide)
......do
......do
Do.
Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate
......do
......do
Not to exceed 0.0175 percent in scald water.
Potassium hydroxide
......do
......do
Sufficient for purpose.
Propylene glycol
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium acid phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium acid pyrophosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium bicarbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium carbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium dodecylbenzene-sulfonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium-2-ethylhexyl sulfate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium hexametaphosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium hydroxide
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium lauryl sulfate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium phosphate (mono-, di-, tribasic)
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium pyrophosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium sesquicarbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium sulfate
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium tripolyphosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Tetrasodium pyrophosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Proteolytic Enzymes
Aspergillus flavus oryzae group
To soften tissue
Raw poultry muscle tissue of hen, cock, mature turkey, mature duck, mature goose, and mature guinea, and raw meat cuts
Solutions consisting of water and approved proteolytic enzyme applied or injected into raw meat or poultry tissue shall not result in a gain of more than 3 percent above the weight of the untreated product.
Aspergillus oryzae
......do
......do
Do.
Bromelin
......do
......do
Do.
Ficin
......do
......do
Do.
Papain
......do
......do
Do.
Refining Agents (must be eliminated during process of manufacturing)
Acetic acid
To separate fatty acids and glycerol
Rendered fats (meat only)
Sufficient for purpose.
Bicarbonate of soda
......do
......do
Do.
Carbon (purified charcoal)
To aid in refining of animal fats
......do
Do.
Caustic soda (sodium hydroxide)
To refine fats
......do
Do.
Diatomaceous earth; Fuller's earth
......do
......do
Do.
Sodium carbonate
......do
......do
Do.
Tannic acid
......do
......do
Do.
Rendering agents
Tricalcium phosphate
To aid rendering
Animal fats
Do.
Trisodium phosphate
......do
......do
Do.
Synergists (used in combination with antioxidants)
Citric acid
To increase effectiveness of antioxidants
Any meat product permitted to contain antioxidants as provided for in this part
Not to exceed 0.01 percent based on fat content.
......do
Poultry fats
0.01 percent alone or in combination with antioxidants in poultry fats.
Malic acid
......do
Lard and shortening
0.01 percent based on total weight in combination with antioxidants for use in meat products only.
......do
Poultry fats
0.01 percent alone or in combination with antioxidants in poultry fats.
Monoglyceride citrate
......do
Lard, shortening, fresh pork sausage, dried meats and poultry fats
0.02 percent.
Monoisopropyl citrate
......do
Lard, shortening, oleomargarine, fresh pork sausage, dried meats
Do.
......do
Poultry fats
0.01 percent poultry fats.
Phosphoric acid
......do
Lard, shortening, and poultry fats
0.01 percent.
Tenderizing agents
Aspergillus flavus oryzae group
To soften tissue
Raw poultry muscle tissue of hen, cock, mature turkey, mature duck, mature goose, and mature guinea, and raw meat cuts
Solutions consisting of water and approved proteolytic enzyme applied or injected into raw meat or poultry tissue shall not result in a gain of more than 3 percent above the weight of the untreated product.
Aspergillus oryzae
......do
......do
Not more than 3 percent of a 0.8 molar solution.
Bromelin
......do
......do
Do.
Calcium chloride
......do
......do
Do.
Magnesium chloride
......do
......do
Do.
Papain
To soften tissue
Raw poultry muscle tissue of hen, cock, mature turkey, mature duck, mature goose, and mature guinea, and raw meat cuts
Solutions consisting of water and approved proteolytic enzyme applied or injected into raw meat or poultry tissue shall not result in a gain of more than 3 percent above the weight of the untreated product.
Potassium chloride
......do
......do
Not more than 3 percent of a 2.0 molar solution.
Potassium, magnesium or calcium chloride
......do
......do
A solution of approved inorganic chlorides injected into or applied to raw meats or poultry cuts shall not result in a gain of more than 3 percent above the weight of the untreated product.
1
[Reserved]
2
Information as to the specific products for which use of this additive is approved may be obtained upon inquiry addressed to the Labeling and Additives Policy Division, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
3
Provided that its use is functional and suitable for the product and it is permitted for use at the lowest level necessary to accomplish the desired technical effect as determined in specific cases prior to label approval under part 412 of this chapter.
4
Special labeling requirements are prescribed in 381.120 for raw poultry chilled in a medium with more than 70 lbs. of salt to 10,000 gals. of water.
[64 FR 72175, Dec. 23, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 3123, Jan. 20, 2000; 65 FR 34391, May 30, 2000; 78 FR 66839, Nov. 7, 2013; 83 FR 25308, May 31, 2018; 84 FR 65268, Nov. 27, 2019]
§ 424.22
Certain other permitted uses.
(a) Under appropriate declaration as required in parts 316 and 317 of this chapter, the following substances may be added to meat:
(1)
General.
Common salt, approved sugars (sucrose, cane or beet sugar), maple sugar, dextrose, invert sugar, honey, corn syrup solids (corn syrup, glucose syrup and fructose), wood smoke, vinegar, flavorings, spices, sodium nitrate, sodium nitrite, potassium nitrate, potassium nitrite, and other food and color additives specified in the chart in paragraph (c) of this section may be added to meat under conditions, if any, specified in this part or in part 317 of this chapter.
(2)
Artificial flavorings.
Other harmless artificial flavorings may be added to meat, with the approval of the Administrator in specific cases.
(3)
Coloring matter and dyes.
Coloring matter and dyes, other than those specified in a regulation permitting that use in this chapter or in 21 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A and Subchapter B, may be applied to meat mixed with rendered fat, applied to natural and artificial casings, and applied to such casings enclosing products, if approved by the Administrator in specific cases. When any coloring matter or dye is applied to casings, there shall be no penetration of coloring into the product.
(b)
Use of nitrite and sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate) in bacon
—(1)
Pumped bacon.
With respect to bacon injected with curing ingredients and massaged bacon, sodium nitrite shall be used at 120 parts per million (ppm) ingoing or an equivalent amount of potassium nitrite shall be used (148 ppm ingoing); and 550 ppm of sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate) shall be used. Sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate have a molecular weight of approximately 198. Hydrated forms of these substances shall be adjusted to attain the equivalent of 550 ppm of sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate.
(i) The Department shall collect samples of pumped bacon from producing plants and analyze them for the level of nitrosamines by the Thermal Energy Analyzer (TEA). In the event that a TEA analysis indicates that a confirmable level of nitrosamines might be present, additional samples shall be collected and analyzed by gas chromatography. Presumptive positive results
must be confirmed by mass spectrometry before being considered positive. If during the interval required for the Department to analyze the confirmatory samples by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, changes are made in processing procedures which are expected to result in no confirmable levels of nitrosamines in pumped bacon produced by these new procedures, an establishment may submit samples to USDA for analysis upon prior notification and arrangements with USDA. If, however, an establishment furnishes USDA with laboratory results from testing five consecutive lots of pumped bacon produced under the new procedures and the testing is performed by the USDA methodology and procedures, those results will be utilized in making the determination concerning the product produced under the new procedures. Should the results of these tests reveal that confirmable levels of nitrosamines are not indicated in any of the five consecutive lots, the confirmation analysis by USDA shall be terminated and the establishment shall revert to normal monitoring status. In the event the test results continue to indicate nitrosamines, however, USDA shall proceed in its confirmation analysis on the original samples taken for confirmation. If any one of the original samples collected by USDA for confirmation is found to contain confirmable levels of nitrosamines, all pumped bacon in the producing establishment and all future production will be retained. The Department shall sample and analyze such retained pumped bacon for nitrosamines on a lot by lot basis. A production lot shall be that pumped bacon produced by the establishment in any single shift. Samples from any lot of pumped bacon under retention found to contain nitrosamines at a confirmable level shall cause the lot of pumped bacon to be disposed of in a manner to ensure it will not form nitrosamines when cooked. Such disposal may include incorporation of the uncooked pumped bacon as an ingredient of another meat provided it is processed for eating without further preparation in a manner to preclude the formation of nitrosamines. Bacon subsequently produced shall not be retained because of nitrosamines if the operator of the establishment makes adjustments in the processing of the product and laboratory results obtained by TEA analysis of samples from five consecutive normal sized lots of pumped bacon indicates that the product being produced contains no confirmable levels of nitrosamines. These tests from five consecutive normal sized lots of pumped bacon shall be conducted by the Department. However, if the establishment furnishes the Department with the results of tests conducted under the methodology and procedures used by the Department, such test results will be utilized in making the determination concerning the nitrosamine content of the product. All tests of pumped bacon for nitrosamines under this paragraph (b)(1)(i) shall be made on pumped bacon cooked at 340 degrees F. for 3 minutes on each side. In order to determine that no confirmable levels of nitrosamines are present in a sample tested, the testing must be performed by methodology and procedures that would detect the presence of any nitrosamines at 10 ppb.
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, sodium nitrite may be used at:
(A) 100 ppm ingoing (potassium nitrite at 123 ppm ingoing); and 550 ppm sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate) shall be used; or
(B) A predetermined level between 40 and 80 ppm (potassium nitrite at a level between 49 and 99 ppm); 550 ppm sodium ascorbate or sodium erythorbate (isoascorbate); and additional sucrose or other similar fermentable carbohydrate at a minimum of 0.7 percent and an inoculum of lactic acid producing bacteria such as
Pediococcus acetolactii
or other bacteria demonstrated to be equally effective in preventing the production of botulinum toxin at a level sufficient for the purpose of preventing the production of botulinum toxin.
(C) The Department shall collect samples of bacon from establishments producing under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and analyze them for the level of nitrosamines. Samples shall be randomly selected throughout the production of a lot. The actual sampling
plans and methods of analysis that are used will result in approximately the same likelihood as under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section of having a presumptive positive result when the true mean level of nitrosamines in a production lot is 10 ppb. In the event of a presumptive positive result, the establishment shall become subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Immersion cured bacon.
Immersion cured bacon may be placed in a brine solution containing salt, nitrite and flavoring material or in a container with salt, nitrite and flavoring material. Sodium nitrite shall not exceed 120 ppm ingoing or an equivalent amount of potassium nitrite (148 ppm ingoing) based on the actual or estimated skin-free green weight of the bacon bellies.
(3)
Bacon made with dry curing materials.
With respect to bacon made with dry curing materials, the product shall be cured by applying a premeasured amount of cure mixture to the bacon belly surfaces, completely covering the surfaces. Sodium nitrite shall not exceed 200 ppm ingoing or an equivalent amount of potassium nitrite (246 ppm ingoing) in dry cured bacon based on the actual or estimated skin-free green weight of the bacon belly.
(c) Irradiation of meat food and poultry products.
(1)
General requirements.
Meat food and poultry products may be treated to reduce foodborne pathogens and to extend product shelf-life by the use of sources of ionizing radiation as identified in 21 CFR 179.26(a). Official establishments must irradiate meat food and poultry products in accordance with 21 CFR 179.26(b), the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) system requirements in part 417 of this chapter, and the provisions of this section.
(2)
Dosimetry.
Official establishments that irradiate meat food and poultry products must have the following procedures in place:
(i) Laboratory operation procedures for determining the absorbed dose value from the dosimeter.
(ii) Calibration criteria for verifying the accuracy and consistency of any means of measurement (
e.g.,
time clocks and weight scales).
(iii) Calibration and accountability criteria for verifying the traceability and accuracy of dosimeters for the intended purpose, and the verification of calibration at least every 12 months. To confirm traceability, establishments must relate, through documentation, the end point measurement of a dosimeter to recognized standards.
(iv) Procedures for ensuring that the product unit is dose mapped to identify the regions of minimum and maximum absorbed dose and such regions are consistent from one product unit to another of like product.
(v) Procedures for accounting for the total absorbed dose received by the product unit (e.g., partial applications of the absorbed dose within one production lot).
(vi) Procedures for verifying routine dosimetry, i.e., assuring each production lot receives the total absorbed dose. Establishments may either position one dosimeter at the regions of minimum and maximum absorbed dose (or at one region verified to represent such) on at least the first, middle, and last product unit in each production lot or use statistically based validation and dose mapping to determine the number and placement of dosimeters in each production lot.
(vii) Procedures for verifying the relationship of absorbed dose as measured by the dosimeter to time exposure of the product unit to the radiation source.
(viii) Procedures for verifying the integrity of the radiation source and processing procedure. Aside from expected and verified radiation source activity decay for radionuclide sources, the radiation source or processing procedure must not be altered, modified, replenished, or adjusted without repeating dose mapping of product units to redefine the regions of minimum and maximum absorbed dose.
(3)
Documentation.
Official establishments that irradiate meat food or poultry products must have the following documentation on premises, available to FSIS:
(i) Documentation that the irradiation facility is licensed or possesses gamma radiation sources registered
with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or the appropriate State government acting under authority granted by the NRC.
(ii) Documentation that the machine radiation source irradiation facility is registered with the appropriate State government, if applicable.
(iii) Documentation that a worker safety program addressing OSHA regulations (29 CFR chapter XVII) is in place.
(iv) Citations or other documents that relate to incidences in which the establishment was found not to comply with Federal or State agency requirements for irradiation facilities.
(v) A certification by the operator that the irradiation facility personnel will only operate under supervision of a person who has successfully completed a course of instruction for operators of food irradiation facilities.
(vi) A certification by the operator that the key irradiation personnel, who monitor or control daily operations, have been trained in food technology, irradiation processing, and radiation health and safety.
(vii) Guarantees from the suppliers of all food-contact packaging materials that may be subject to irradiation that those materials comply with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
).
(4)
Labeling.
(i) The labels on packages of meat food and poultry products irradiated in their entirety, in conformance with this section and with 21 CFR 179.26(a) and (b), must bear the logo shown at the end of this paragraph. Unless the word “Irradiated” is part of the product name, labels also must bear a statement such as “Treated with radiation” or “Treated by irradiation.” The logo must be placed in conjunction with the required statement, if the statement is used. The statement is not required to be more prominent than the declaration of ingredients required under § 317.2(c)(2) of this chapter.
ER23DE99.000
(ii) For meat food or poultry products that have been irradiated in their entirety, but that are not sold in packages, the required logo must be displayed to the purchaser with either the labeling of the bulk container plainly in view or a counter sign, card, or other appropriate device bearing the information that the product has been treated with radiation. In either case, the information must be prominently and conspicuously displayed to purchasers. Unless the word “Irradiated” is part of the product name, the labeling counter sign, card, or other device also must bear a statement such as “Treated with radiation” or “Treated by irradiation.” The logo must be placed in conjunction with the required statement, if the statement is used.
(iii) The inclusion of an irradiated meat food or poultry product ingredient in any multi-ingredient meat food or poultry product must be reflected in the ingredient statement on the finished product labeling.
(iv) Optional labeling statements about the purpose for radiation processing may be included on the product label in addition to the stated requirements elsewhere in this section, provided that such statements are not false or misleading. Statements that there has been a specific reduction in microbial pathogens must be substantiated by processing documentation.
[64 FR 72175, Dec. 23, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 72165, Dec. 23, 1999; 65 FR 34391, May 30, 2000; 78 FR 66839, Nov. 7, 2013]
§ 424.23
Prohibited uses.
(a)
Substances that conceal damage or inferiority or make products appear better or of greater value.
No substance may be used in or on any meat if it conceals damage or inferiority or makes the
product appear to be better or of greater value than it is. Therefore:
(1) Paprika or oleoresin paprika may not be used in or on fresh meat, such as steaks, or comminuted fresh meat, such as chopped and formed steaks or patties; or in any other meat consisting of fresh meat (with or without seasoning).
(2) Paprika or oleoresin paprika may be used in or on chorizo sausage and other meat in which paprika or oleoresin paprika is permitted as an ingredient in a standard of identity or composition in part 319 of this subchapter.
(3) Sorbic acid, calcium sorbate, sodium sorbate, and other salts of sorbic acid shall not be used in cooked sausages or any other meat; sulfurous acid and salts of sulfurous acid shall not be used in or on any meat; and niacin or nicotinamide shall not be used in or on fresh meat product; except that potassium sorbate, propylparaben (propyl p-hydroxybenzoate), and calcium propionate, may be used in or on any product, only as provided in 9 CFR Chapter III.
(b)
Nitrates.
Nitrates shall not be used in curing bacon.
[64 FR 72175, Dec. 23, 1999, as amended at 78 FR 14640, Mar. 7, 2013]
Pt. 430

# PART 430—REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC CLASSES OF PRODUCT
Sec.
430.1
Definitions.
430.4
Control of Listeria monocytogenes in post-lethality exposed ready-to-eat products.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450; 7 U.S.C. 1901-1906; 21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
68 FR 34224, June 6, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 430.1
Definitions.
Antimicrobial agent.
A substance in or added to an RTE product that has the effect of reducing or eliminating a microorganism, including a pathogen such as
L. monocytogenes,
or that has the effect of suppressing or limiting growth of
L. monocytogenes
in the product throughout the shelf life of the product. Examples of antimicrobial agents added to RTE products are potassium lactate and sodium diacetate.
Antimicrobial process.
An operation, such as freezing, applied to an RTE product that has the effect of suppressing or limiting the growth of a microorganism, such as
L. monocytogenes,
in the product throughout the shelf life of the product.
Deli product.
A ready-to-eat meat or poultry product that typically is sliced, either in an official establishment or after distribution from an official establishment, and typically is assembled in a sandwich for consumption.
Hotdog product.
A ready-to-eat meat or poultry frank, frankfurter, or wiener, such as a product defined in 9 CFR 319.180 and 319.181.
Lethality treatment.
A process, including the application of an antimicrobial agent, that eliminates or reduces the number of pathogenic microorganisms on or in a product to make the product safe for human consumption. Examples of lethality treatments are cooking or the application of an antimicrobial agent or process that eliminates or reduces pathogenic microorganisms.
Post-lethality exposed product.
Ready-to-eat product that comes into direct contact with a food contact surface after the lethality treatment in a post-lethality processing environment.
Post-lethality processing environment.
The area of an establishment into which product is routed after having been subjected to an initial lethality treatment. The product may be exposed to the environment in this area as a result of slicing, peeling, re-bagging, cooling semi-permeable encased product with a brine solution, or other procedures.
Post-lethality treatment.
A lethality treatment that is applied or is effective after post-lethality exposure. It is applied to the final product or sealed package of product in order to reduce or eliminate the level of pathogens resulting from contamination from post-lethality exposure.
Prerequisite program.
A procedure or set of procedures that is designed to provide basic environmental or operating conditions necessary for the production of safe, wholesome food. It is called “prerequisite” because it is considered by scientific experts to be prerequisite to a HACCP plan.
Ready-to-eat (RTE) product.
A meat or poultry product that is in a form that is edible without additional preparation to achieve food safety and may receive additional preparation for palatability or aesthetic, epicurean, gastronomic, or culinary purposes. RTE product is not required to bear a safe-handling instruction (as required for non-RTE products by 9 CFR 317.2(l) and 381.125(b)) or other labeling that directs that the product must be cooked or otherwise treated for safety, and can include frozen meat and poultry products.
§ 430.4
Control of Listeria monocytogenes in post-lethality exposed ready-to-eat products.
(a)
Listeria monocytogenes
can contaminate RTE products that are exposed to the environment after they have undergone a lethality treatment.
L. monocytogenes
is a hazard that an establishment producing post-lethality exposed RTE products must control through its HACCP plan or prevent in the processing environment through a Sanitation SOP or other prerequisite program. RTE product is adulterated if it contains
L. monocytogenes,
or if it comes into direct contact with a food contact surface that is contaminated with
L. monocytogenes.
Establishments must not release into commerce product that contains
L. monocytogenes
or that has been in contact with a food contact surface contaminated with
L. monocytogenes
without first reworking the product using a process that is destructive of
L. monocytogenes.
(b) In order to maintain the sanitary conditions necessary to meet this requirement, an establishment producing post-lethality exposed RTE product must comply with the requirements included in one of the three following alternatives:
(1)
Alternative 1.
Use of a post-lethality treatment (which may be an antimicrobial agent) that reduces or eliminates microorganisms on the product
and
an antimicrobial agent or process that suppresses or limits the growth of
L. monocytogenes.
If an establishment chooses this alternative:
(i) The post-lethality treatment must be included in the establishment's HACCP plan. The antimicrobial agent or process used to suppress or limit the growth of the pathogen must be included in either the establishment's HACCP plan or its Sanitation SOP or other prerequisite program.
(ii) The establishment must validate the effectiveness of the post-lethality treatment incorporated in its HACCP plan in accordance with § 417.4. The establishment must document, either in its HACCP plan or in its Sanitation SOP or other prerequisite program, that the antimicrobial agent or process, as used, is effective in suppressing or limiting growth of
L. monocytogenes.
(2)
Alternative 2.
Use of either a post-lethality treatment (which may be an antimicrobial agent) that reduces or eliminates microorganisms on the product
or
an antimicrobial agent or process that suppresses or limits growth of
L. monocytogenes.
If an establishment chooses this alternative:
(i) The post-lethality treatment must be included in the establishment's HACCP plan. The antimicrobial agent or process used to suppress or limit growth of the pathogen must be included in either the establishment's HACCP plan or its Sanitation SOP or other prerequisite program.
(ii) The establishment must validate the effectiveness of a post-lethality treatment incorporated in its HACCP plan in accordance with § 417.4. The establishment must document in its HACCP plan or in its Sanitation SOP or other prerequisite program that the antimicrobial agent or process, as used, is effective in suppressing or limiting growth of
L. monocytogenes.
(iii) If an establishment chooses this alternative and chooses to use only an antimicrobial agent or process that suppresses or limits the growth of
L. monocytogenes,
its sanitation program must:
(A) Provide for testing of food contact surfaces in the post-lethality processing environment to ensure that the surfaces are sanitary and free of
L. monocytogenes
or of an indicator organism;
(B) Identify the conditions under which the establishment will implement hold-and-test procedures following a positive test of a food-contact surface for an indicator organism;
(C) State the frequency with which testing will be done;
(D) Identify the size and location of the sites that will be sampled; and
(E) Include an explanation of why the testing frequency is sufficient to ensure that effective control of
L. monocytogenes
or of indicator organisms is maintained.
(iv) An establishment that chooses this alternative and uses a post-lethality treatment of product will likely be subject to more frequent verification testing by FSIS than if it had chosen Alternative 1. An establishment that chooses this alternative and uses an antimicrobial agent or process that suppresses or limits the growth of
L. monocytogenes
will likely be subject to more frequent FSIS verification testing than if it uses a post-lethality treatment.
(3)
Alternative 3.
Use of sanitation measures only.
(i) If an establishment chooses this alternative, its sanitation program must:
(A) Provide for testing of food contact surfaces in the post-lethality processing environment to ensure that the surfaces are sanitary and free of
L. monocytogenes
or of an indicator organism;
(B) Identify the conditions under which the establishment will implement hold-and-test procedures following a positive test of a food-contact surface for an indicator organism;
(C) State the frequency with which testing will be done;
(D) Identify the size and location of the sites that will be sampled; and
(E) Include an explanation of why the testing frequency is sufficient to ensure that effective control of
L. monocytogenes
or of indicator organisms is maintained.
(ii) An establishment producing a deli product or a hotdog product, in addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, must meet the following requirements:
(A) The establishment must verify that the corrective actions that it takes with respect to sanitation after an initial positive test for
L. monocytogenes
or an indicator organism on a food contact surface in the post-lethality processing environment are effective by conducting follow-up testing that includes a targeted test of the specific site on the food contact surface area that is the most likely source of contamination by the organism and such additional tests in the surrounding food contact surface area as are necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the corrective actions.
(B) During this follow-up testing, if the establishment obtains a second positive test for an indicator organism, the establishment must hold lots of product that may have become contaminated by contact with the food contact surface until the establishment corrects the problem indicated by the test result.
(C) In order to release into commerce product held under this section, the establishment must sample and test the lots for
L. monocytogenes
or an indicator organism using a sampling method and frequency that will provide a level of statistical confidence that ensures that each lot is not adulterated with
L. monocytogenes.
The establishment must document the results of this testing. Alternatively, the establishment may rework the held product using a process that is destructive of
L. monocytogenes
or the indicator organism.
(iii) An establishment that chooses Alternative 3 is likely to be subject to more frequent verification testing by FSIS than an establishment that has chosen Alternative 1 or 2. An establishment that chooses Alternative 3 and that produces deli meat or hotdog products is likely to be subject to more frequent verification testing than one that does not produce such products.
(c) For all three alternatives in paragraph (b):
(1) Establishments may use verification testing that includes tests for
L. monocytogenes
or an indicator organism, such as
Listeria
species, to verify the effectiveness of their sanitation procedures in the post-lethality processing environment.
(2) Sanitation measures for controlling
L. monocytogenes
and procedures for antimicrobial agents or processes that suppress or limit the growth of the pathogen may be incorporated either in the establishment's HACCP plan or in its Sanitation SOP or other
prerequisite program. When these control procedures are incorporated into the Sanitation SOP or prerequisite program, and not as a CCP in the HACCP plan, the establishment must have documentation that supports the decision in its hazard analysis that
L. monocytogenes
is not a hazard that is reasonably likely to occur.
(3) The establishment must maintain sanitation in the post-lethality processing environment in accordance with part 416.
(4) If
L. monocytogenes
control measures are included in the HACCP plan, the establishment must validate and verify the effectiveness of measures for controlling
L. monocytogenes
included in its HACCP plan in accordance with § 417.4.
(5) If
L. monocytogenes
control measures are included in the Sanitation SOP, the effectiveness of the measures must be evaluated in accordance with § 416.14.
(6) If the measures for addressing
L. monocytogenes
are addressed in a prerequisite program other than the Sanitation SOP, the establishment must include the program and the results produced by the program in the documentation that the establishment is required to maintain under 9 CFR 417.5.
(7) The establishment must make the verification results that demonstrate the effectiveness of the measures it employs, whether under its HACCP plan or its Sanitation SOP or other prerequisite program, available upon request to FSIS inspection personnel.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) An establishment that controls
L. monocytogenes
by using a post-lethality treatment or an antimicrobial agent or process that eliminates or reduces, or suppresses or limits the growth of the organism may declare this fact on the product label provided that the establishment has validated the claim.
[68 FR 34224, June 6, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 35188, June 19, 2015]
Pt. 431

# PART 431—THERMALLY PROCESSED, COMMERCIALLY STERILE PRODUCTS
Sec.
431.1
Definitions.
431.2
Containers and closures.
431.3
Thermal processing.
431.4
Critical factors and the application of the process schedule.
431.5
Operations in the thermal processing area.
431.6
Equipment and procedures for heat processing systems.
431.7
Processing and production records.
431.8
Record review and maintenance.
431.9
Deviations in processing.
431.10
Finished product inspection.
431.11
Personnel and training.
431.12
Recall procedure.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1633, 1901-1906; 21 U.S.C. 451-472, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
83 FR 25308, May 31, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 431.1
Definitions.
Abnormal container.
A container with any sign of swelling or product leakage or any evidence that the contents of the unopened container may be spoiled.
Acidified low acid product.
A canned product which has been formulated or treated so that every component of the finished product has a pH of 4.6 or lower within 24 hours after the completion of the thermal process unless data are available from the establishment's processing authority demonstrating that a longer time period is safe.
Bleeders.
Small orifices on a retort through which steam, other gasses, and condensate are emitted from the retort throughout the entire thermal process.
Canned product.
A meat or poultry food product with a water activity above 0.85 which receives a thermal process either before or after being packed in a hermetically sealed container. Unless otherwise specified, the term “product” as used in this part means “canned product.”
Closure technician.
The individual(s) identified by the establishment as being trained to perform specific container integrity examinations as required by this part and designated by the establishment to perform such examinations.
Code lot.
All production of a particular product in a specific size container marked with a specific container code.
Come-up time.
The elapsed time, including venting time (if applicable), between the introduction of the heating medium into a closed retort and the start of process timing.
Critical factor.
Any characteristic, condition or aspect of a product, container, or procedure that affects the adequacy of the process schedule. Critical factors are established by processing authorities.
Headspace.
That portion of a container not occupied by the product.
(1)
Gross headspace.
The vertical distance between the level of the product (generally the liquid surface) in an upright rigid container and the top edge of the container (
i.e.,
the flange of an unsealed can, the top of the double seam on a sealed can, or the top edge of an unsealed jar).
(2)
Net headspace.
The vertical distance between the level of the product (generally the liquid surface) in an upright rigid container and the inside surface of the lid.
Hermetically sealed containers.
Air-tight containers which are designed and intended to protect the contents against the entry of microorganisms during and after thermal processing.
(1)
Rigid container.
A container, the shape or contour of which, when filled and sealed, is neither affected by the enclosed product nor deformed by external mechanical pressure of up to 10 pounds per square inch gauge (0.7 kg/cm
2
) (
i.e.,
normal firm finger pressure).
(2)
Semirigid container.
A container, the shape or contour of which, when filled and sealed, is not significantly affected by the enclosed product under normal atmospheric temperature and pressure, but can be deformed by external mechanical pressure of less than 10 pounds per square inch gauge (0.7 kg/cm
2
) (
i.e.,
normal firm finger pressure).
(3)
Flexible container.
A container, the shape or contour of which, when filled and sealed, is significantly affected by the enclosed product.
Incubation tests.
Tests in which the thermally processed product is kept at a specific temperature for a specified period of time in order to determine if outgrowth of microorganisms occurs.
Initial temperature.
The temperature, determined at the initiation of a thermal process cycle, of the contents of the coldest container to be processed.
Low acid product.
A canned product in which any component has a pH value above 4.6.
Process schedule.
The thermal process and any specified critical factors for a given canned product required to achieve shelf stability.
Process temperature.
The minimum temperature(s) of the heating medium to be maintained as specified in the process schedule.
Process time.
The intended time(s) a container is to be exposed to the heating medium while the heating medium is at or above the process temperature(s).
Processing authority.
The person(s) or organization(s) having expert knowledge of thermal processing requirements for foods in hermetically sealed containers, having access to facilities for making such determinations, and designated by the establishment to perform certain functions as indicated in this part.
Program employee.
Any inspector or other individual employed by the Department or any cooperating agency who is authorized by the Secretary to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the Program.
Retort.
A pressure vessel designed for thermal processing of product packed in hermetically sealed containers.
Seals.
Those parts of a semirigid container and lid or of a flexible container that are fused together in order to hermetically close the container.
Shelf stability.
The condition achieved by application of heat, sufficient, alone or in combination with other ingredients and/or treatments, to render the product free of microorganisms capable of growing in the product at nonrefrigerated conditions (over 50 °F or 10 °C) at which the product is intended to be held during distribution and storage. Shelf stability and shelf stable are synonymous with commercial sterility and commercially sterile, respectively.
Thermal process.
The heat treatment necessary to achieve shelf stability as determined by the establishment's processing authority. It is quantified in terms of:
(1) Time(s) and temperature(s); or
(2) Minimum product temperature.
Venting.
The removal of air from a retort before the start of process timing.
Water activity.
The ratio of the water vapor pressure of the product to the
vapor pressure of pure water at the same temperature.
§ 431.2
Containers and closures.
(a)
Examination and handling of empty containers.
(1) Empty containers, closures, and flexible pouch roll stock must be evaluated by the establishment to ensure that they are free of structural defects and damage that may affect product or container integrity. Such an examination should be based on a statistical sampling plan.
(2) All empty containers, closures, and flexible pouch roll stock must be stored, handled, and conveyed in such a manner that will prevent damage that could affect the hermetic condition of the sealed container.
(3) Just before filling, rigid containers must be cleaned to prevent incorporation of foreign matter into the finished product. Closures, semirigid containers, preformed flexible pouches, and flexible pouch roll stock contained in original wrappings do not need to be cleaned before use.
(b)
Closure examinations for rigid containers (cans)
—(1)
Visual examinations.
A closure technician must visually examine the double seams formed by each closing machine head. When seam defects (
e.g.,
cutovers, sharpness, knocked down flanges, false seams, droops) are observed, necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the closing machine, must be taken. In addition to the double seams, the entire container must be examined for product leakage or obvious defects. A visual examination must be performed on at least one container from each closing machine head, and the observations, along with any corrective actions, must be recorded. Visual examinations must be conducted with sufficient frequency to ensure proper closure and should be conducted at least every 30 minutes of continuous closing machine operation. Additional visual examinations must be made by the closure technician at the beginning of production, immediately following every jam in the closing machine and after closing machine adjustment (including adjustment for changes in container size).
(2)
Teardown examinations.
Teardown examinations of double seams formed by each closing machine head must be performed by a closure technician at a frequency sufficient to ensure proper closure. These examinations should be made at intervals of not more than 4 hours of continuous closing machine operation. At least one container from each closing head must be examined on the packer's end during each regular examination period. Examination results along with any necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the closing machine, must be promptly recorded by the closure technician. The establishment must have container specification guidelines for double seam integrity on file and available for review by Program employees. A teardown examination of the can maker's end must be performed on at least one container selected from each closing machine during each examination period except when teardown examinations are made on incoming empty containers or when, in the case of self-manufactured containers, the containers are made in the vicinity of the establishment and the container plant records are made available to Program employees. Additional teardown examinations on the packer's end should be made at the beginning of production, immediately following every jam in a closing machine and after closing machine adjustment (including adjustment for a change in container size). The following procedures must be used in teardown examinations of double seams:
(i)
Dimensional measurement.
One of the following two methods must be employed for dimensional measurements of the double seam.
(A)
Micrometer measurement.
(
1
) For cylindrical containers, measure the following dimensions (Figure 1 to § 431.2) at three points approximately 120 degrees apart on the double seam excluding and at least one-half inch from the side seam juncture:
(
i
) Double seam length—W;
(
ii
) Double seam thickness—S;
(
iii
) Body hook length—BH; and
(
iv
) Cover hook length—CH.
(
2
) Maximum and minimum values for each dimensional measurement must be recorded by the closure technician.
ER31MY18.001
(B)
Seamscope or seam projector.
Required measurements of the seam include thickness, body hook, and overlap.
(ii)
Seam thickness.
Seam thickness must be obtained by micrometer. For cylindrical containers, at least two locations, excluding the side seam juncture, must be used to obtain the required measurements.
(iii)
Seam tightness.
Regardless of the dimensional measurement method used to measure seam dimensions, at a minimum, the seam(s) examined must be stripped to assess the degree of wrinkling.
(iv)
Side seam juncture rating.
Regardless of the dimensional measurement method used to measure seam dimensions, the cover hook must be stripped to examine the cover hook droop at the juncture for containers having side seams.
(v)
Examination of noncylindrical containers.
Examination of noncylindrical containers (
e.g.,
square, rectangular,
“D”-shaped, and irregularly-shaped) must be conducted as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section except that the required dimensional measurements must be made on the double seam at the points listed in the establishment's container specification guidelines.
(c)
Closure examinations for glass containers
—(1)
Visual examinations.
A closure technician must visually assess the adequacy of the closures formed by each closing machine. When closure defects, such as loose or cocked caps, fractured or cracked containers and low vacuum jars, are observed, necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the closing machine must be taken and recorded. In addition to the closures, the entire container must be examined for defects. Visual examinations must be made with sufficient frequency to ensure proper closure and should be conducted at least every 30 minutes of continuous closing machine operation. Additional visual examinations must be made by the closure technician and the observations recorded at the beginning of production, immediately following every jam in the closing machine, and after closing machine adjustment (including adjustment for a change in container size).
(2)
Closure examinations and tests.
Depending upon the container and closure, tests must be performed by a closure technician at a frequency sufficient to ensure proper closure. These examinations should be made either before or after thermal processing and at intervals of not more than 4 hours of continuous closing machine operation. At least one container from each closing machine must be examined during each regular examination period. Examination results along with any necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the closing machine, must be promptly recorded by the closure technician. The establishment must have specification guidelines for closure integrity on file and available for review by Program employees. Additional closure examinations should be made at the beginning of production, immediately following every jam in the closing machine, and after closing machine adjustment (including adjustment for a change in container size).
(d)
Closure examinations for semi-rigid and flexible containers
—(1)
Heat seals
—(i)
Visual examinations.
A closure technician must visually examine the seals formed by each sealing machine. When sealing defects are observed, necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the sealing machine, must be taken and recorded. In addition to examining the heat seals, the entire container must be examined for product leakage or obvious defects. Visual examinations must be performed before and after the thermal processing operation and with sufficient frequency to ensure proper closure. These examinations should be conducted at least in accordance with a statistical sampling plan. All defects noted and corrective actions taken must be promptly recorded.
(ii)
Physical tests.
Tests determined by the establishment as necessary to assess container integrity must be conducted by the closure technician at a frequency sufficient to ensure proper closure. These tests must be performed after the thermal processing operation and should be made at least every 2 hours of continuous production. The establishment's acceptance guidelines for each test procedure must be on file and available for review by Program employees. Test results along with any necessary corrective actions, such as adjusting or repairing the sealing machine, must be recorded.
(2)
Recording.
Double seams on semirigid or flexible containers must be examined and the results recorded as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Any additional measurements specified by the container manufacturer must also be made and recorded.
(e)
Container coding.
Each container must be marked with a permanent, legible, identifying code mark. The mark must, at a minimum, identify in code the product (unless the product name is lithographed or printed elsewhere on the container) and the day and year the product was packed.
(f)
Handling of containers after closure.
(1) Containers and closures must be protected from damage which may cause defects that are likely to affect
the hermetic condition of the containers. The accumulation of stationary containers on moving conveyors should be minimized to avoid damage to the containers.
(2) The maximum time lapse between closure of containers and initiation of thermal processing must be 2 hours unless data are available from the establishment's processing authority demonstrating that an alternative time period is safe and will not result in product spoilage.
§ 431.3
Thermal processing.
(a)
Process schedules.
Prior to the processing of canned product for distribution in commerce, an establishment must have a process schedule (as defined in § 431.1) for each canned meat or poultry product to be packed by the establishment.
(b)
Source of process schedules.
(1) Process schedules used by an establishment must be developed or determined by a processing authority.
(2) Any change in product formulation, ingredients, or treatments that are not already incorporated in a process schedule and that may adversely affect either the product heat penetration profile or sterilization value requirements must be evaluated by the establishment's processing authority. If it is determined that any such change adversely affects the adequacy of the process schedule, the processing authority must amend the process schedule accordingly.
(3) Complete records concerning all aspects of the development or determination of a process schedule, including any associated incubation tests, must be made available by the establishment to the Program employee upon request.
(c)
Submittal of process information.
(1) Prior to the processing of canned product for distribution in commerce, the establishment must provide the inspector at the establishment with a list of the process schedules (including alternate schedules) along with any additional applicable information, such as the retort come-up operating procedures and critical factors.
(2) Letters or other written communications from a processing authority recommending all process schedules must be maintained on file by the establishment. Upon request by Program employees, the establishment must make available such letters or written communications (or copies thereof). If critical factors are identified in the process schedule, the establishment must provide the inspector with a copy of the procedures for measuring, controlling, and recording these factors, along with the frequency of such measurements, to ensure that the critical factors remain within the limits used to establish the process schedule. Once submitted, the process schedules and associated critical factors and the procedures for measuring (including the frequency), controlling, and recording of critical factors must not be changed without the prior written submittal of the revised procedures (including supporting documentation) to the inspector at the establishment.
§ 431.4
Critical factors and the application of the process schedule.
Critical factors specified in the process schedule must be measured, controlled, and recorded by the establishment to ensure that these factors remain within the limits used to establish the process schedule. Examples of factors that are often critical to process schedule adequacy may include:
(a)
General.
(1) Maximum fill-in weight or drained weight;
(2) Arrangement of pieces in the container;
(3) Container orientation during thermal processing;
(4) Product formulation;
(5) Particle size;
(6) Maximum thickness for flexible containers, and to some extent semirigid containers, during thermal processing;
(7) Maximum pH;
(8) Percent salt;
(9) Ingoing (or formulated) nitrite level (ppm);
(10) Maximum water activity; and
(11) Product consistency or viscosity.
(b)
Continuous rotary and batch agitating retorts.
(1) Minimum headspace; and
(2) Retort reel speed.
(c)
Hydrostatic retorts.
(1) Chain or conveyor speed.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)
Steam/air retorts.
(1) Steam/air ratio; and
(2) Heating medium flow rate.
§ 431.5
Operations in the thermal processing area.
(a)
Posting of processes.
Process schedules (or operating process schedules) for daily production, including minimum initial temperatures and operating procedures for thermal processing equipment, must be posted in a conspicuous place near the thermal processing equipment. Alternatively, such information must be available to the thermal processing system operator and the inspector.
(b)
Process indicators and retort traffic control.
A system for product traffic control must be established to prevent product from bypassing the thermal processing operation. Each basket, crate, or similar vehicle containing unprocessed product, or at least one visible container in each vehicle, must be plainly and conspicuously marked with a heat sensitive indicator that will visually indicate whether such unit has been thermally processed. Exposed heat sensitive indicators attached to container vehicles must be removed before such vehicles are refilled with unprocessed product. Container loading systems for crateless retorts must be designed to prevent unprocessed product from bypassing the thermal processing operation.
(c)
Initial temperature.
The initial temperature of the contents of the coldest container to be processed must be determined and recorded by the establishment at the time the processing cycle begins to assure that the temperature of the contents of every container to be processed is not lower than the minimum initial temperature specified in the process schedule. Thermal processing systems which subject the filled and sealed containers to water at any time before process timing begins must be operated to assure that such water will not lower the temperature of the product below the minimum initial temperature specified in the process schedule.
(d)
Timing devices.
Devices used to time applicable thermal processing operation functions or events, such as process schedule time, come-up time, and retort venting, must be accurate to assure that all such functions or events are achieved. Pocket watches and wrist watches are not considered acceptable timing devices. Analog and digital clocks are considered acceptable. If such clocks do not display seconds, all required timed functions or events must have at least a 1-minute safety factor over the specified thermal processing operation times. Temperature/time recording devices must correspond within 15 minutes to the time of the day recorded on written records required by § 431.7.
(e)
Measurement of pH.
Unless other methods are approved by the Administrator, potentiometric methods using electronic instruments (pH meters) must be used for making pH determinations when a maximum pH value is specified as a critical factor in a process schedule.
§ 431.6
Equipment and procedures for heat processing systems.
(a)
Instruments and controls common to different thermal processing systems
—(1)
Indicating temperature devices.
Each retort must be equipped with at least one indicating temperature device that measures the actual temperature within the retort. The indicating temperature device, not the temperature/time recording device, must be used as the reference instrument for indicating the process temperature.
(i)
Mercury-in-glass thermometers.
A mercury-in-glass thermometer must have divisions that are readable to 1 °F (or 0.5 °C) and whose scale contains not more than 17 °F/inch (or 4.0 °C/cm) of graduated scale. Each mercury-in-glass thermometer must be tested for accuracy against a known accurate standard upon installation and at least once a year to ensure its accuracy. Records that specify the date, standard used, test method, and the person or testing authority performing the test must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees. A mercury-in-glass thermometer that has a divided mercury column or that cannot be adjusted to the standard must be repaired and tested for accuracy before further use, or replaced.
(ii)
Other devices.
Temperature-indicating devices, such as resistance temperature detectors, used in lieu of mercury-in-glass thermometers, must meet known, accurate standards for such devices when tested for accuracy. The records of such testing must be available to FSIS program employees.
(2)
Temperature/time recording devices.
Each thermal processing system must be equipped with at least one temperature/time recording device to provide a permanent record of temperatures within the thermal processing system. This recording device may be combined with the steam controller and may be a recording/controlling instrument. When compared to the known accurate indicating temperature device, the recording accuracy must be equal to or better than 1 °F (or 0.5 °C) at the process temperature. The temperature recording chart should be adjusted to agree with, but must never be higher than, the known accurate indicating temperature device. A means of preventing unauthorized changes in the adjustment must be provided. For example, a lock or a notice from management posted at or near the recording device warning that only authorized persons are permitted to make adjustments, are satisfactory means for preventing unauthorized changes. Air-operated temperature controllers must have adequate filter systems to ensure a supply of clean, dry air. The recorder timing mechanism must be accurate.
(i)
Chart-type devices.
Devices using charts must be used only with the correct chart. Each chart must have a working scale of not more than 55 °F/inch (or 12 °C/cm.) within a range of 20 °F (or 11 °C) of the process temperature. Chart graduations must not exceed 2 °F degrees (or 1 °C) within a range of 10 °F (or 5 °C) of the process temperature. Multipoint plotting chart-type devices must print temperature readings at intervals that will assure that the parameters of the process time and process temperature have been met. The frequency of recording should not exceed 1-minute intervals.
(ii)
Other devices.
Temperature/time recording devices or procedures used in lieu of chart-type devices must meet known accurate standards for such devices or procedures when tested for accuracy. Such a device must be accurate enough for ensuring that process time and temperature parameters have been met.
(3)
Steam controllers.
Each retort must be equipped with an automatic steam controller to maintain the retort temperature. This may be a recording/controlling instrument when combined with a temperature/time recording device.
(4)
Air valves.
All air lines connected to retorts designed for pressure processing in steam must be equipped with a globe valve or other equivalent-type valve or piping arrangement that will prevent leakage of air into the retort during the process cycle.
(5)
Water valves.
All retort water lines that are intended to be closed during a process cycle must be equipped with a globe valve or other equivalent-type valve or piping arrangement that will prevent leakage of water into the retort during the process cycle.
(b)
Pressure processing in steam
—(1)
Common to batch still, batch agitating, continuous rotary retorts, and hydrostats
—(i)
Basic requirements.
The basic requirements and recommendations for indicating temperature devices and temperature/time recording devices are described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. Additionally, bulb sheaths or probes of indicating temperature devices and probes of temperature/time recording devices must be installed either within the retort shell or in external wells attached to the retort. External wells must be connected to the retort through at least a
3/4
inch (1.9 cm) diameter opening and equipped with a
1/16
inch (1.6 mm) or larger bleeder opening so located as to provide a constant flow of steam past the length of the bulb or probe. The bleeder for the external wells must emit steam continuously during the entire thermal processing period.
(ii)
Steam inlet.
The steam inlet to each retort must be large enough to provide steam for proper operation of the retort, and must enter at a point(s) to facilitate air removal during venting.
(iii)
Bleeder and vent mufflers.
If mufflers are used on bleeders or vent systems, the establishment must have on
file documentation that the mufflers do not impede the removal of air from the retort. Such documentation must consist of either heat distribution data or documentation from the muffler manufacturer or from a processing authority. This information must be made available to Program employees for review.
(iv)
Bleeders.
Bleeders, except those for external wells of temperature devices and hydrostatic retorts, must have a
1/8
inch (or 3 mm) or larger openings and must be wide open during the entire process, including the come-up time. All bleeders must be arranged so that the retort operator can observe that they are functioning properly. For horizontal retorts, batch agitating retorts, and continuous rotary retorts, bleeders must be located within approximately 1 foot (or 30 cm) of the outmost locations of containers at each end along the top of the retort. Additional bleeders must be located not more than 8 feet (2.4 m) apart along the top. This information must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review. Vertical retorts must have at least one bleeder opening located in the portion of the retort opposite the steam inlet. Hydrostatic retorts must have bleeder openings
1/4
inch (or 6 mm) or larger which are to be located in the steam chamber(s) opposite the point of steam entry. Bleeders may be installed at positions other than those specified above, as long as the establishment has heat distribution data or other documentation from the manufacturer or from a processing authority demonstrating that the bleeders accomplish removal of air and circulate the steam within the retort.
(2)
Batch still retorts
—(i)
Crate supports.
Vertical still retorts with bottom steam entry must employ bottom retort crate supports. Baffle plates must not be used in the bottom of retorts.
(ii)
Steam spreader.
Perforated steam spreaders, if used, must be maintained to ensure they are not blocked or otherwise inoperative. Horizontal still retorts must be equipped with perforated steam spreaders that extend the full length of the retort unless the adequacy of another arrangement is documented by heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority. Such information must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(iii)
Condensate removal.
In retorts having a steam inlet above the level of the lowest container, a bleeder must be installed in the bottom of the retort to remove condensate. The condensate bleeder must be so arranged that the retort operator can observe that it is functioning properly. The condensate bleeder must be checked with sufficient frequency to ensure adequate removal of condensate. Visual checks should be performed at intervals of not more than 15 minutes and the results recorded. Intermittent condensate removal systems must be equipped with an automatic alarm system that will serve as a continuous monitor of condensate bleeder functioning. The automatic alarm system must be tested at the beginning of each shift for proper functioning and the results recorded. If the alarm system is not functioning properly, it must be repaired before the retort is used.
(iv)
Stacking equipment
—(A)
Equipment for holding or stacking containers in retorts.
Crates, trays, gondolas, carts, and other vehicles for holding or stacking product containers in the retort must be so constructed to ensure steam circulation during the venting, come-up, and process times. The bottom of each vehicle must have perforations at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) in diameter on 2 inch (or 5 cm) centers or the equivalent unless the adequacy of another arrangement is documented by heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority and such information is maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(B)
Divider plates.
Whenever one or more divider plates are used between any two layers of containers or placed on the bottom of a retort vehicle, the establishment must have on file documentation that the venting procedure allows the air to be removed from the retort before timing of the thermal process is started. Such documentation must be in the form of heat distribution data or documentation from a processing authority. This information
must be made available to Program employees for review.
(v)
Vents.
(A) Vents must be located in that portion of the retort opposite the steam inlet and must be designed, installed, and operated in such a way that air is removed from the retort before timing of the thermal process is started. Vents must be controlled by a gate, plug cock, or other full-flow valve which must be fully opened to permit rapid removal of air from retorts during the venting period.
(B) Vents must not be connected to a closed drain system without an atmospheric break in the line. Where a retort manifold connects several pipes from a single retort, the manifold must be controlled by a gate, plug cock, or other full-flow valve and the manifold must be of a size such that the cross-sectional area of the manifold is larger than the total cross-sectional area of all connecting vents. The discharge must not be connected to a closed drain without an atmospheric break in the line. A manifold header connecting vents or manifolds from several still retorts must lead to the atmosphere. The manifold header must not be controlled by a valve and must be of a size such that the cross-sectional area is at least equal to the total cross-sectional area of all connecting retort manifold pipes from the maximum number of retorts to be vented simultaneously.
(C) Some typical installations and operating procedures are described below. Other retort installations, vent piping arrangements, operating procedures or auxiliary equipment such as divider plates may be used provided there is documentation that the air is removed from the retort before the process is started. Such documentation must be in the form of heat distribution data or other documentation from the equipment manufacturer or processing authority. This information must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(D) For crateless retort installations, the establishment must have heat distribution data or other documentation from the equipment manufacturer or from a processing authority that demonstrates that the venting procedure used accomplishes the removal of air and condensate. This information must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(E) Examples of typical installations and operating procedures that comply with the requirements of this section are as follows:
(
1
)
Venting horizontal retorts.
(
i
) Venting through multiple 1 inch (2.5 cm) vents discharging directly to the atmosphere.
ER31MY18.002
(
ii
) Venting through multiple 1 inch (2.5 cm) vents discharging through a manifold to the atmosphere.
ER31MY18.003
(
iii
) Venting through water spreaders.
ER31MY18.004
(
iv
) Venting through a single 2
1/2
inch (6.4 cm) top vent for retorts not exceeding 15 feet (4.6 m) in length.
ER31MY18.005
(
2
)
Venting vertical retorts.
(
i
) Venting through a 1
1/2
inch (3.8 cm) overflow.
ER31MY18.006
(
ii
) Venting through a single 1 inch (2.5 cm) side or top vent.
ER31MY18.007
(3)
Batch agitating retorts
—(i)
Venting and condensate removal.
The air in the retort must be removed before processing is started. Heat distribution data or other documentation from the manufacturer or from the processing authority who developed the venting procedure must be kept on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review. At the time the steam is turned on, the drain must be opened to remove steam condensate from the retort. A bleeder must be installed in the bottom of the retort to remove condensate during retort operation. The condensate bleeder
must be so arranged that the retort operator can observe that it is functioning properly. The condensate bleeder must be checked with sufficient frequency to ensure adequate removal of condensate. Visual checks should be performed at intervals of not more than 15 minutes and the results recorded. Intermittent condensate removal systems must be equipped with an automatic alarm system that will serve as a continuous monitor of condensate bleeder functioning. The automatic alarm system must be tested at the beginning of each shift for proper functioning and the results recorded. If the alarm system is not functioning properly, it must be repaired before the retort is used.
(ii)
Retort or reel speed timing.
The retort or reel speed must be checked before process timing begins and, if needed, adjusted as specified in the process schedule. In addition, the rotational speed must be determined and recorded at least once during process timing of each retort load processed. Alternatively, a recording tachometer can be used to provide a continuous record of the speed. The accuracy of the recording tachometer must be determined and recorded at least once per shift by checking the retort or reel speed using an accurate stopwatch. A means of preventing unauthorized speed changes on retorts must be provided. For example, a lock or a notice from management posted at or near the speed adjustment device warning that only authorized persons are permitted to make adjustments is a satisfactory means of preventing unauthorized changes.
(4)
Continuous rotary retorts
—(i)
Venting and condensate removal.
The air in the retort must be removed before processing is started. Heat distribution data or other documentation from the manufacturer or from the processing authority who developed the venting procedure must be kept on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review. At the time the steam is turned on, the drain must be opened to remove steam condensate from the retort. A bleeder must be installed in the bottom of the shell to remove condensate during the retort operation. The condensate bleeder must be so arranged that the retort operator can observe that it is functioning properly. The condensate bleeder must be checked with sufficient frequency to ensure adequate removal of condensate. Visual checks should be performed at intervals of not more than 15 minutes and the results recorded. Intermittent condensate removal systems must be equipped with an automatic alarm system that will serve as a continuous monitor of condensate bleeder functioning. The automatic alarm system must be tested at the beginning of each shift for proper functioning and the results recorded. If the alarm system is not functioning properly, it must be repaired before the retort is used.
(ii)
Retort speed timing.
The rotational speed of the retort must be specified in the process schedule. The speed must be adjusted as specified, and recorded by the establishment when the retort is started, and checked and recorded at intervals not to exceed 4 hours to ensure that the correct retort speed is maintained. Alternatively, a recording tachometer may be used to provide a continuous record of the speed. If a recording tachometer is used, the speed must be manually checked against an accurate stopwatch at least once per shift and the results recorded. A means of preventing unauthorized speed changes on retorts must be provided. For example, a lock or a notice from management posted at or near the speed adjustment device warning that only authorized persons are permitted to make adjustments is a satisfactory means of preventing unauthorized changes.
(5)
Hydrostatic retorts
—(i)
Basic requirements.
The basic requirements for indicating temperature devices and temperature/time recording devices are described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. Additionally, indicating temperature devices must be located in the steam dome near the steam/water interface. Where the process schedule specifies maintenance of particular water temperatures in the hydrostatic water legs, at least one indicating temperature device must be located in each hydrostatic water leg so that it
can accurately measure water temperature and be easily read. The temperature/time recorder probe must be installed either within the steam dome or in a well attached to the dome. Each probe must have a
1/16
inch (1.6 mm) or larger bleeder opening which emits steam continuously during the processing period. Additional temperature/time recorder probes must be installed in the hydrostatic water legs if the process schedule specifies maintenance of particular temperatures in these water legs.
(ii)
Steam inlet.
The steam inlets must be large enough to provide steam for proper operation of the retort.
(iii)
Bleeders.
Bleeder openings
1/4
inch (or 6 mm) or larger must be located in the steam chamber(s) opposite the point of steam entry. Bleeders must be wide open and must emit steam continuously during the entire process, including the come-up time. All bleeders must be arranged in such a way that the operator can observe that they are functioning properly.
(iv)
Venting.
Before the start of processing operations, the retort steam chamber(s) must be vented to ensure removal of air. Heat distribution data or other documentation from the manufacturer or from a processing authority demonstrating that the air is removed from the retort prior to processing must be kept on file at the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(v)
Conveyor speed.
The conveyor speed must be calculated to obtain the required process time and recorded by the establishment when the retort is started. The speed must be checked and recorded at intervals not to exceed 4 hours to ensure that the correct conveyor speed is maintained. A recording device may be used to provide a continuous record of the conveyor speed. When a recording device is used, the speed must be manually checked against an accurate stopwatch at least once per shift by the establishment. A means of preventing unauthorized speed changes of the conveyor must be provided. For example, a lock or a notice from management posted at or near the speed adjustment device warning that only authorized persons are permitted to make adjustments is a satisfactory means of preventing unauthorized changes.
(vi)
Bleeders and vent mufflers.
If mufflers are used on bleeders or vent systems, the establishment must have documentation that the mufflers do not impede the removal of air from the retort. Such documentation must consist of either heat distribution data or other documentation from the muffler manufacturer or from a processing authority. This information must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(c)
Pressure processing in water
—(1)
Common to batch still and agitating retorts
—(i)
Basic requirements.
The basic requirements for indicating temperature devices and temperature/time recording devices are described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(ii)
Pressure recording device.
Each retort must be equipped with a pressure recording device which may be combined with a pressure controller.
(iii)
Heat distribution.
Heat distribution data or other documentation from the equipment manufacturer or a processing authority demonstrating uniform heat distribution within the retort must be kept on file at the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(iv)
Drain valve.
A non-clogging, water-tight drain valve must be used. Screens must be installed over all drain openings.
(2)
Batch still retorts
—(i)
Temperature device bulbs and probes.
The indicating temperature device bulbs or probes must be located in such a position that they are beneath the surface of the water throughout the process. On horizontal retorts, the indicating temperature device bulb or probe must be inserted directly into the retort shell. In both vertical and horizontal retorts, the indicating temperature device bulb or probe must extend directly into the water a minimum of 2 inches (or 5 cm) without a separable well or sleeve. In vertical retorts equipped with a recorder/controller, the controller probe must be located at the bottom of the retort below the lowest crate rest in such a position that the steam does not strike it directly. In horizontal retorts so equipped, the controller probe must
be located between the water surface and the horizontal plane passing through the center of the retort so that there is no opportunity for direct steam impingement on the controller probe. Air-operated temperature controllers must have filter systems to ensure a supply of clean, dry air.
(ii)
Crate supports.
A bottom crate support must be used in vertical retorts. Baffle plates must not be used in the bottom of the retort.
(iii)
Stacking equipment.
For filled flexible containers and, where applicable, semi-rigid containers, stacking equipment must be designed to ensure that the thickness of the filled containers does not exceed that specified in the process schedule and that the containers do not become displaced and overlap or rest on one another during the thermal process.
(iv)
Water level.
There must be a means of determining the water level in the retort during operation (
i.e.,
by using a gauge, electronic sensor, or sight glass indicator). For retorts requiring complete immersion of containers, water must cover the top layer of containers during the entire come-up time and thermal processing periods and should cover the top layer of containers during cooling. For retorts using cascading water or water sprays, the water level must be maintained within the range specified by the retort manufacturer or processing authority during the entire come-up, thermal processing, and cooling periods. A means to ensure that water circulation continues as specified throughout the come-up, thermal processing, and cooling periods must be provided. The retort operator must check and record the water level at intervals to ensure it meets the specified processing parameters.
(v)
Air supply and controls.
In both horizontal and vertical still retorts, a means must be provided for introducing compressed air or steam at the pressure required to maintain container integrity. Compressed air and steam entry must be controlled by an automatic pressure control unit. A non-return valve must be provided in the air supply line to prevent water from entering the system. Overriding air or steam pressure must be maintained continuously during the come-up, thermal processing, and cooling periods. If air is used to promote circulation, it must be introduced into the steam line at a point between the retort and the steam control valve at the bottom of the retort. The adequacy of the air circulation for maintaining uniform heat distribution within the retort must be documented by heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority, and such data must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(vi)
Water recirculation.
When a water recirculation system is used for heat distribution, the water must be drawn from the bottom of the retort through a suction manifold and discharged through a spreader that extends the length or circumference of the top of the retort. The holes in the water spreader must be uniformly distributed. The suction outlets must be protected with screens to keep debris from entering the recirculation system. The pump must be equipped with a pilot light or a similar device to warn the operator when it is not running, and with a bleeder to remove air when starting operations. Alternatively, a flow-meter alarm system can be used to ensure proper water circulation. The adequacy of water circulation for maintaining uniform heat distribution within the retort must be documented by heat distribution or other documentation from a processing authority, and such data must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review. Alternative methods for recirculation of water in the retort may be used, provided there is documentation in the form of heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(vii)
Cooling water entry.
In retorts for processing product packed in glass jars, the incoming cooling water should not directly strike the jars, in order to minimize glass breakage by thermal shock.
(3)
Batch agitating retorts
—(i)
Temperature device bulbs and probes.
The indicating temperature device bulb or
probe must extend directly into the water without a separable well or sleeve. The recorder/controller probe must be located between the water surface and the horizontal plane passing through the center of the retort so that there is no opportunity for steam to directly strike the controller bulb or probe.
(ii)
Stacking equipment.
All devices used for holding product containers (
e.g.,
crates, trays, divider plates) must be so constructed to allow the water to circulate around the containers during the come-up and thermal process periods.
(iii)
Water level.
There must be a means of determining the water level in the retort during operation (
i.e.,
by using a gauge, electronic sensor, or sight glass indicator). Water must completely cover all containers during the entire come-up, thermal processing, and cooling periods. A means to ensure that water circulation continues as specified throughout the come-up, thermal processing, and cooling periods must be provided. The retort operator must check and record the adequacy of the water level with sufficient frequency to ensure it meets the specified processing parameters.
(iv)
Air supply and controls.
Retorts must be provided with a means for introducing compressed air or steam at the pressure required to maintain container integrity. Compressed air and steam entry must be controlled by an automatic pressure control unit. A non-return valve must be provided in the air supply line to prevent water from entering the system. Overriding air or steam pressure must be maintained continuously during the come-up, thermal processing, and cooling periods. If air is used to promote circulation, it must be introduced into the steam line at a point between the retort and the steam control valve at the bottom of the retort. The adequacy of the air circulation for maintaining uniform heat distribution within the retort must be documented by heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority, and such data must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(v)
Retort or reel speed timing.
The retort or reel speed timing must be checked before process timing begins and, if needed, adjusted as specified in the process schedule. In addition, the rotational speed must be determined and recorded at least once during process timing of each retort load processed. Alternatively, a recording tachometer can be used to provide a continuous record of the speed. The accuracy of the recording tachometer must be determined and recorded at least once per shift by the establishment by checking the retort or reel speed using an accurate stopwatch. A means of preventing unauthorized speed changes on retorts must be provided. For example, a lock or a notice from management posted at or near the speed adjustment device warning that only authorized persons are permitted to make adjustments is a satisfactory means of preventing unauthorized changes.
(vi)
Water recirculation.
If a water recirculation system is used for heat distribution, it must be installed in such a manner that water will be drawn from the bottom of the retort through a suction manifold and discharged through a spreader which extends the length of the top of the retort. The holes in the water spreader must be uniformly distributed. The suction outlets must be protected with screens to keep debris from entering the recirculation system. The pump must be equipped with a pilot light or a similar device to warn the operator when it is not running and with a bleeder to remove air when starting operations. Alternatively, a flow-meter alarm system can be used to ensure proper water circulation. The adequacy of water circulation for maintaining uniform heat distribution within the retort must be documented by heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority, and such data must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review. Alternative methods for recirculation of water in the retort may be used provided there is documentation in the form of heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority maintained on file by the establishment and
made available to Program employees for review.
(vii)
Cooling water entry.
In retorts for processing product packed in glass jars, the incoming cooling water should not directly strike the jars, in order to minimize glass breakage by thermal shock.
(d)
Pressure processing with steam/air mixtures in batch retorts
—(1)
Basic requirements.
The basic requirements for indicating temperature devices and temperature/time recording devices are described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. Additionally, bulb sheaths or probes for indicating temperature devices and temperature/time recording devices or controller probes must be inserted directly into the retort shell in such a position that steam does not strike them directly.
(2)
Recording pressure controller.
A recording pressure controller must be used to control the air inlet and the steam/air mixture outlet.
(3)
Circulation of steam/air mixtures.
A means must be provided for the circulation of the steam/air mixture to prevent formation of low-temperature pockets. The efficiency of the circulation system must be documented by heat distribution data or other documentation from a processing authority, and such data must be maintained on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review. The circulation system must be checked to ensure its proper functioning and must be equipped with a pilot light or a similar device to warn the operator when it is not functioning. Because of the variety of existing designs, reference must be made to the equipment manufacturer for details of installation, operation, and control.
(e)
Atmospheric cookers
—(1)
Temperature/time recording device.
Each atmospheric cooker (
e.g.,
hot water bath) must be equipped with at least one temperature/time recording device in accordance with the basic requirements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Heat distribution.
Each atmospheric cooker must be equipped and operated to ensure uniform heat distribution throughout the processing system during the thermal process. Heat distribution data or other documentation from the manufacturer or a processing authority demonstrating uniform heat distribution within the cooker must be kept on file by the establishment and made available to Program employees for review.
(f)
Other systems.
All other systems not specifically delineated in this section and used for the thermal processing of canned product must be adequate to produce shelf-stable products consistently and uniformly.
(g)
Equipment maintenance.
(1) Upon installation, all instrumentation and controls must be checked by the establishment for proper functioning and accuracy and, thereafter, at any time their functioning or accuracy is suspect.
(2) At least once a year each thermal processing system must be examined by an individual not directly involved in daily operations to ensure the proper functioning of the system as well as all auxiliary equipment and instrumentation. In addition, each thermal processing system should be examined before the resumption of operation following an extended shutdown.
(3) Air and water valves that are intended to be closed during thermal processing must be checked by the establishment for leaks. Defective valves must be repaired or replaced as needed.
(4) Vent and bleeder mufflers must be checked and maintained or replaced by the establishment to prevent any reduction in bleeder efficiency.
(5) When water spreaders are used for venting, a maintenance schedule must be developed and implemented to assure that the holes are maintained at their original size.
(6) Records must be kept on all maintenance items that could affect the adequacy of the thermal process. Records must include the date and type of maintenance performed and the person conducting the maintenance.
(h)
Container cooling and cooling water.
(1) Potable water must be used for cooling except as provided for in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) Cooling canal water must be chlorinated or treated with a chemical having a bactericidal effect equivalent to chlorination. There must be a measurable residual of the sanitizer in the
water at the discharge point of the canal. Cooling canals must be cleaned and replenished with potable water to prevent the buildup of organic matter and other materials.
(3) Container cooling waters that are recycled or reused must be handled in systems that are so designed, operated, and maintained so there is no buildup of microorganisms, organic matter, and other materials in the systems and in the waters. System equipment, such as pipelines, holding tanks and cooling towers, must be constructed and installed so that they can be cleaned and inspected. In addition, the establishment must maintain, and make available to Program employees for review, information on at least the following:
(i) System design and construction;
(ii) System operation including the rates of renewal with fresh, potable water and the means for treating the water so that there is a measurable residual of an acceptable sanitizer, per paragraph (h)(2) of this section, in the water at the point where the water exits the container cooling vessel;
(iii) System maintenance including procedures for the periodic cleaning and sanitizing of the entire system; and
(iv) Water quality standards, such as microbiological, chemical and physical, monitoring procedures including the frequency and site(s) of sampling, and the corrective actions taken when water quality standards are not met.
(i)
Post-process handling of containers.
Containers must be handled in a manner that will prevent damage to the hermetic seal area. All worn and frayed belting, can retarders, cushions, and the like must be replaced with nonporous materials. To minimize container abrasions, particularly in the seal area, containers should not remain stationary on moving conveyors. All post-process container handling equipment should be kept clean so there is no buildup of microorganisms on surfaces in contact with the containers.
§ 431.7
Processing and production records.
At least the following processing and production information must be recorded by the establishment: Date of production; product name and style; container code; container size and type; and the process schedule, including the minimum initial temperature. Measurements made to satisfy the requirements of § 431.4 regarding the control of critical factors must be recorded. In addition, where applicable, the following information and data must also be recorded:
(a)
Processing in steam
—(1)
Batch still retorts.
For each retort batch, record the retort number or other designation, the approximate number of containers or the number of retort crates per retort load, product initial temperature, time steam on, the time and temperature vent closed, the start of process timing, time steam off, and the actual processing time. The indicating temperature device and the temperature recorder must be read at the same time at least once during process timing and the observed temperatures recorded.
(2)
Batch agitating retorts.
In addition to recording the information required for batch still steam retorts in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, record the functioning of the condensate bleeder(s) and the retort or reel speed.
(3)
Continuous rotary retorts.
Record the retort system number, the approximate total number of containers retorted, product initial temperature, time steam on, the time and temperature vent closed, time process temperature reached, the time the first can enters and the time the last can exits the retort. The retort or reel speed must be determined and recorded at intervals not to exceed 4 hours. Readings of the indicating temperature device(s) and temperature recorder(s) must be made and recorded at the time the first container enters the retort and thereafter with sufficient frequency to ensure compliance with the process schedule. These observations should be made and recorded at intervals not exceeding 30 minutes of continuous retort operation. Functioning of the condensate bleeder(s) must be observed and recorded at the time the first container enters the retort and thereafter as specified in § 431.305(b)(3)(v).
(4)
Hydrostatic retorts.
Record the retort system number, the approximate total number of containers retorted, product initial temperature, time
steam on, the time and temperature vent(s) closed, time process temperature reached, time first containers enter the retort, time last containers exit the retort, and, if specified in the process schedule, measurements of temperatures in the hydrostatic water legs. Readings of the temperature indicating device, which is located in the steam/water interface, and the temperature recording device must be observed and the temperatures recorded at the time the first containers enter the steam dome. Thereafter, these instruments must be read and the temperatures recorded with sufficient frequency to ensure compliance with the temperature specified in the process schedule and should be made at least every hour of continuous retort operation. Container conveyor speed, and for agitating hydrostatic retorts, the rotative chain speed, must be determined and recorded at intervals of sufficient frequency to ensure compliance with the process schedule and should be performed at least every 4 hours.
(b)
Processing in water
—(1)
Batch still retorts.
For each retort batch, record the retort number or other designation, the approximate number of containers or number of retort crates per retort load, product initial temperature, time steam on, the start of process timing, water level, water recirculation rate (if critical), overriding pressure maintained, time steam off, and actual processing time. The indicating temperature device and the temperature recorder must be read at the same time at least once during process timing and the observed temperatures recorded.
(2)
Batch agitating retorts.
In addition to recording the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, record the retort or reel speed.
(c)
Processing in steam/air mixtures.
For each retort batch, record the retort number or other designation, the approximate number of containers or number of retort crates per retort load, product initial temperature, time steam on, venting procedure, if applicable, the start of process timing, maintenance of circulation of the steam/air mixture, air flow rate or forced recirculation flow rate (if critical), overriding pressure maintained, time steam off, and actual processing time. The indicating temperature device and the temperature recorder must be read at the same time at least once during process timing and the observed temperatures recorded.
(d)
Atmospheric cookers
—(1)
Batch-type systems.
For each cooker batch, record the cooker number or other designation and the approximate number of containers. In addition, record all critical factors of the process schedule such as cooker temperature, initial temperature, the time the thermal process cycle begins and ends, hold time, and the final internal product temperature.
(2)
Continuous-type systems.
Record the cooker number or other designation, the time the first containers enter and the last containers exit a cooker, and the approximate total number of containers processed. In addition, record all critical factors of the process schedule such as the initial temperature, cooker speed, and final internal product temperature.
§ 431.8
Record review and maintenance.
(a)
Process records.
Charts from temperature/time recording devices must be identified by production date, container code, processing vessel number or other designation, and other data as necessary to enable correlation with the records required in § 431.7. Each entry on a record must be made at the time the specific event occurs, and the recording individual must sign or initial each record form. No later than 1 working day after the actual process, the establishment must review all processing and production records to ensure completeness and to determine if all product received the process schedule. All records, including the temperature/time recorder charts and critical factor control records, must be signed or initialed and dated by the person conducting the review. All processing and production records required in this subpart must be made available to Program employees for review.
(b)
Automated process monitoring and recordkeeping.
Automated process monitoring and recordkeeping systems must be designed and operated in a manner that will ensure compliance
with the applicable requirements of § 431.7.
(c)
Container closure records.
Written records of all container closure examinations must specify the container code, the date and time of container closure examination, the measurement(s) obtained, and any corrective actions taken. Records must be signed or initialed by the container closure technician and must be reviewed and signed by the establishment within 1 working day after the actual production to ensure that the records are complete and that the closing operations have been properly controlled. All container closure examination records required in this subpart must be made available to Program employees for review.
(d)
Distribution of product.
Records must be maintained by the establishment identifying initial distribution of the finished product to facilitate, if necessary, the segregation of specific production lots that may have been contaminated or are otherwise unsound for their intended use.
(e)
Retention of records.
Copies of all processing and production records required in § 431.7 must be retained for no less than 1 year at the establishment, and for an additional 2 years at the establishment or other location from which the records can be made available to Program employees within 3 working days.
§ 431.9
Deviations in processing.
(a) Whenever the actual process is less than the process schedule or when any critical factor does not comply with the requirements for that factor as specified in the process schedule, it must be considered a deviation in processing.
(b) Deviations in processing (or process deviations) must be handled according to:
(1) A HACCP plan for canned product that addresses hazards associated with microbial contamination; or,
(2) Alternative documented procedures that will ensure that only safe and stable product is shipped in commerce; or
(3) Paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Procedures for handling process deviations where the HACCP plan for thermally processed/commercially sterile product does not address food safety hazards associated with microbial contamination, where there is no approved total quality control system, or where the establishment has no alternative documented procedures for handling process deviations.
(1)
Deviations identified in-process.
If a deviation is noted at any time before the completion of the intended process schedule, the establishment must:
(i) Immediately reprocess the product using the full process schedule; or
(ii) Use an appropriate alternate process schedule provided such a process schedule has been established in accordance with § 431.3(a) and (b) and is filed with the inspector in accordance with § 431.3(c); or
(iii) Hold the product involved and have the deviation evaluated by a processing authority to assess the safety and stability of the product. Upon completion of the evaluation, the establishment must provide the inspector the following:
(A) A complete description of the deviation along with all necessary supporting documentation;
(B) A copy of the evaluation report; and
(C) A description of any product disposition actions, either taken or proposed.
(iv) Product handled in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section must not be shipped from the establishment until the Program has reviewed all of the information submitted and approved the product disposition actions.
(v) If an alternate process schedule is used that is not on file with the inspector or if an alternate process schedule is immediately calculated and used, the product must be set aside for further evaluation in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(vi) When a deviation occurs in a continuous rotary retort, the product must be handled in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section or in accordance with the following procedures:
(A)
Emergency stops.
(
1
) When retort jams or breakdowns occur during the processing operations, all containers
must be given an emergency still process (developed per § 431.3(b)) before the retort is cooled or the retort must be cooled promptly and all containers removed and either reprocessed, repacked and reprocessed, or destroyed. Regardless of the procedure used, containers in the retort intake valve and in transfer valves between retort shells at the time of a jam or breakdown must be removed and either reprocessed, repacked and reprocessed and or destroyed. Product to be destroyed must be handled as “U.S. Inspected and Condemned,” as defined in § 301.2 of this chapter, or as “U.S. Condemned,” as defined in § 381.1(b) of this chapter, and disposed of in accordance with part 314 of this chapter or with § 381.95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(
2
) The time the retort reel stopped and the time the retort is used for an emergency still retort process must be noted on the temperature/time recording device and entered on the other production records required in § 431.7.
(B)
Temperature drops.
When the retort temperature drops below the temperature specified in the process schedule, the reel must be stopped and the following actions must be taken:
(
1
) For temperature drops of less than 10 °F (or 5.5 °C) either:
(
i
) All containers in the retort must be given an emergency still process (developed per § 431.3(b)) before the reel is restarted;
(
ii
) Container entry to the retort must be prevented and an emergency agitating process (developed per § 431.3(b)) must be used before container entry to the retort is restarted; or
(
iii
) Container entry to the retort must be prevented and the reel restarted to empty the retort. The discharged containers must be reprocessed, repacked and reprocessed, or destroyed. Product to be destroyed must be handled as “U.S. Inspected and Condemned,” as defined in § 301.2 of this chapter, or as “U.S. Condemned,” as defined in § 381.1(b) of this chapter, and disposed of in accordance with part 314 of this chapter or with § 381.95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(
2
) For temperature drops of 10 °F (or 5.5 °C) or more, all containers in the retort must be given an emergency still process (developed per § 431.3(b)). The time the reel was stopped and the time the retort was used for a still retort process must be marked on the temperature/time recording device by the establishment and entered on the other production records required in § 431.7. Alternatively, container entry to the retort must be prevented and the reel restarted to empty the retort. The discharged containers must be either reprocessed, repacked and reprocessed, or destroyed. Product to be destroyed must be handled as “U.S. Inspected and Condemned,” as defined in § 301.2 of this chapter, or as “U.S. Condemned,” as defined in § 381.1(b) of this chapter, and disposed of in accordance with part 314 of this chapter or with § 381.95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(2)
Deviations identified through record review.
Whenever a deviation is noted during review of the processing and production records required by § 431.8(a) and (b), the establishment must hold the product involved and the deviation must be handled in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.
(d)
Process deviation file.
The establishment must maintain full records regarding the handling of each deviation. Such records must include, at a minimum, the appropriate processing and production records, a full description of the corrective actions taken, the evaluation procedures and results, and the disposition of the affected product. Such records must be maintained in a separate file or in a log that contains the appropriate information. The file or log must be retained in accordance with § 431.8(e) and must be made available to Program employees upon request.
§ 431.10
Finished product inspection.
(a) Finished product inspections must be handled according to:
(1) An HACCP plan for canned product that addresses hazards associated with microbiological contamination;
(2) An FSIS-approved total quality control system;
(3) Alternative documented procedures that will ensure that only safe and stable product is shipped in commerce; or
(4) Paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Procedures for handling finished product inspections where the HACCP plan for thermally processed/commercially sterile product does not address food safety hazards associated with microbial contamination, where there is no approved total quality control system, or where the establishment has no alternative documented procedures for handling process deviations.
(1)
Incubation of shelf stable canned produc
t—(i)
Incubator.
The establishment must provide incubation facilities which include an accurate temperature/time recording device, an indicating temperature device, a means for the circulation of the air inside the incubator to prevent temperature variations, and a means to prevent unauthorized entry into the facility. The Program is responsible for the security of the incubator.
(ii)
Incubation temperature.
The incubation temperature must be maintained at 95±5 °F (35±2.8 °C). If the incubation temperature falls below 90 °F (or 32 °C) or exceeds 100 °F (or 38 °C) but does not reach 103 °F (or 39.5 °C), the incubation temperature must be adjusted within the required range and the incubation time extended for the time the sample containers were held at the deviant temperature. If the incubation temperature is at or above 103 °F (or 39.5 °C) for more than 2 hours, the incubation test(s) must be terminated, the temperature lowered to within the required range, and new sample containers incubated for the required time.
(iii)
Product requiring incubation.
Shelf stable product requiring incubation includes:
(A) Low acid products as defined in § 431.1; and
(B) Acidified low acid products as defined in § 431.1.
(iv)
Incubation samples.
(A) From each load of product processed in a batch-type thermal processing system (still or agitation), the establishment must select at least one container for incubation.
(B) For continuous rotary retorts, hydrostatic retorts, or other continuous-type thermal processing systems, the establishment must select at least one container per 1,000 for incubation.
(C) Only normal-appearing containers must be selected for incubation.
(v)
Incubation time.
Canned product requiring incubation must be incubated for not less than 10 days (240 hours) under the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(vi)
Incubation checks and record maintenance.
Designated establishment employees must visually check all containers under incubation each working day and the inspector must be notified when abnormal containers are detected. All abnormal containers should be allowed to cool before a final decision on their condition is made. For each incubation test the establishment must record at least the product name, container size, container code, number of containers incubated, in and out dates, and incubation results. The establishment must retain such records, along with copies of the temperature/time recording charts, in accordance with § 431.8(d).
(vii)
Abnormal containers.
The finding of abnormal containers (as defined in § 431.1) among incubation samples is cause to officially retain at least the code lot involved.
(viii)
Shipping.
No product must be shipped from the establishment before the end of the required incubation period. An establishment wishing to ship product prior to the completion of the required incubation period must submit a written proposal to the District Office. Such a proposal must include provisions that will assure that shipped product will not reach the retail level of distribution before sample incubation is completed and that product can be returned promptly to the establishment should such action be deemed necessary by the incubation test results. Upon receipt of written approval from the District Office, product may be routinely shipped provided the establishment continues to comply with all requirements of this subpart.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Container condition
—(1)
Normal containers.
Only normal-appearing containers must be shipped from an establishment as determined by an appropriate sampling plan or other means acceptable to program employees.
(2)
Abnormal containers.
When abnormal containers are detected by any means other than incubation, the establishment must inform the inspector, and the affected code lot(s) must not be shipped until the Program has determined that the product is safe and stable. Such a determination will take into account the cause and level of abnormals in the affected lot(s) as well as any product disposition actions either taken or proposed by the establishment.
§ 431.11
Personnel and training.
All operators of thermal processing systems specified in § 431.6 and container closure technicians must be under the direct supervision of a person who has successfully completed a school of instruction that is generally recognized as adequate for properly training supervisors of canning operations.
§ 431.12
Recall procedure.
Establishments must prepare and maintain a current procedure for the recall of all canned product covered by this subpart. Upon request, the recall procedure must be made available to Program employees for review.
Pt. 439

# PART 439—ACCREDITATION OF NON-FEDERAL LABORATORIES FOR ANALYTICAL TESTING OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND EGG PRODUCTS
Sec.
439.1
Definitions.
439.5
Applications for accreditation.
439.10
Criteria for obtaining accreditation.
439.20
Criteria for maintaining accreditation.
439.50
Refusal of accreditation.
439.51
Probation of accreditation.
439.52
Suspension of accreditation.
439.53
Revocation of accreditation.
439.60
Notifications and hearings.

# AUTHORITY:
7 U.S.C. 138f, 450, 1901-1906, 1622(o); 21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
87 FR 51864, Aug. 24, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 439.1
Definitions.
(a)
Accredited Laboratory Program (ALP).
The voluntary Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) program in which non-Federal laboratories are accredited as capable of performing analyses with the level of quality that is necessary to maintain accreditation in the program, on samples of raw or processed meat, poultry, and egg products, and through which a proficiency testing sample program for quality assurance is conducted.
(b)
Food chemistry.
Analysis of raw or processed meat or poultry products for the components moisture, protein, fat, and salt.
(c)
Initial accreditation proficiency testing sample.
A sample provided by the FSIS ALP to a non-Federal laboratory to determine whether the laboratory's analytical capability meets the standards for acceptance into the program. The concentration or presence of the targeted analyte(s) and the composition of the components in the sample is unknown to the laboratory.
(d)
Inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing sample.
A sample provided by the FSIS ALP to an accredited laboratory to assist in determining whether the laboratory is maintaining acceptable analytical performance for a given analyte or component. The concentration or presence of the targeted analyte(s) and the composition of the components in the sample is unknown to the laboratory.
(e)
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 13528.
ISO 13528:2015(E) Corrected version 2016, “Statistical methods for use in proficiency testing by interlaboratory comparison,” October 15, 2016, or updated versions.
(f)
Probation.
The period commencing with official notification to an accredited laboratory that it no longer satisfies the ALP performance requirements specified in this part and ending with official notification that accreditation is fully restored, is suspended, or is revoked.
(g)
Refusal of accreditation.
An action taken by FSIS when a laboratory that is applying for accreditation is denied the accreditation.
(h)
Responsibly connected.
Any individual, or entity, that is a partner, officer, director, manager, or owner of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of
the applicant or recipient of accreditation or an employee in a managerial or executive capacity or any employee who conducts or supervises the analysis of FSIS samples.
(i)
Revocation of accreditation.
An action taken by FSIS against a laboratory thereby removing the laboratory's certification of accreditation and participation in inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing sample events.
(j)
Suspension of accreditation.
An action taken by FSIS against a laboratory thereby temporarily removing the laboratory's certification of accreditation and participation in the inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing sample events. Suspension of accreditation ends when accreditation either is fully restored or is revoked.
(k)
z score.
A statistically derived number representing a laboratory's performance for analyzing quantitative proficiency testing samples. The ALP calculates and interprets
z
scores consistent with the ISO 13528 standard.
§ 439.5
Applications for accreditation.
(a) Participation in the ALP is voluntary. Application for accreditation must be made on designated paper or electronic forms provided by FSIS, or otherwise in writing, by the owner or manager of a non-Federal analytical laboratory. Application forms may be obtained by contacting the ALP at
ALP@usda.gov.
The forms must be sent to the ALP or may be submitted electronically. The application must specify the kinds of accreditation sought by the owner or manager of the laboratory. A laboratory whose accreditation has been refused or revoked for performance reasons may reapply for accreditation after 60 days from the effective date of that action and must provide written documentation specifying what corrections were made and illustrate to FSIS that the corrections are effective or would reasonably be expected to be effective.
(b) At the time that an application for accreditation is filed with the ALP, the laboratory must submit fees payable to the U.S. Department of Agriculture by check, bank draft, money order, or other form of payment accepted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, in the amount specified by FSIS as directed in 9 CFR 391.5, along with the completed application for the accreditation(s).
(c) An application for accreditation will not be processed or allowed to advance, without further procedure, if the accreditation fee(s) is delinquent.
(d) FSIS will issue a bill annually in the amount specified by FSIS in 9 CFR 391.5 for each accreditation held and are due by the date required. Bills are payable to the U.S. Department of Agriculture by check, bank draft, money order, or other form of payment accepted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
§ 439.10
Criteria for obtaining accreditation.
(a) Analytical laboratories may be accredited for the analyses of foodborne indicator and pathogen analytes, or a specified chemical residue or a class of chemical residues, in raw or processed meat, poultry, and egg products. Analytical laboratories also may be accredited for the analyses of food chemistry components in raw or processed meat and poultry products.
(b) Accreditation will be granted only if the applying laboratory successfully satisfies FSIS requirements that are stated in this part.
(c) To obtain FSIS accreditation, an analytical laboratory must:
(1) Be supervised by a person holding, at a minimum, a bachelor's degree in biology, chemistry, microbiology, food science, food technology, or a related field.
(i) For food chemistry accreditation, the supervisor must also have one year of experience in food chemistry analysis, or equivalent qualifications.
(ii) For chemical residue accreditation, either the supervisor or the analyst assigned to analyze the sample must also have three years of experience determining analytes at or below part per million levels, or equivalent qualifications.
(iii) For indicator organisms or pathogen accreditation, either the supervisor or the analyst assigned to analyze the sample must also have three
years of experience in foodborne pathogen analyses or equivalent qualifications.
(2) Demonstrate the capability to achieve quality assurance levels that are within acceptable limits as determined by evaluation that is consistent with ISO 13528 for the analysis of initial accreditation proficiency testing samples, in the analyte category for which accreditation is sought. FSIS and some Association of Official Analytical Collaboration (AOAC) International analytical test procedures are acceptable for use in this program. FSIS procedures may be found on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) FSIS website at
www.fsis.usda.gov.
AOAC procedures may be found on the AOAC website at
www.aoac.org.
(3) Complete a second set of proficiency testing samples if the results of the first set of proficiency testing samples are unsuccessful.
(i) The second set of proficiency testing samples will be provided within 30 days following the date of receipt by FSIS of a request from the applying laboratory. The second set of proficiency testing samples will be analyzed only for the analyte(s) or analyte classes for which unacceptable initial results had been obtained by the laboratory.
(ii) If the results of the second set of proficiency testing samples are unsuccessful, the laboratory may request a third set of proficiency testing samples after a 60-day waiting period, commencing from the date of notification by FSIS of unsuccessful results. The third set of proficiency testing samples will be analyzed only for the analyte(s) or analyte classes for which unacceptable initial results had been obtained by the laboratory.
(iii) If the laboratory is unsuccessful for the third set and still wishes to pursue accreditation, the ALP will require a new application and an application fee if the initial accreditation process is not completed within eleven months. Documentation of corrective action(s) related to the previous unsuccessful accreditation attempt must be submitted to and accepted by the ALP.
(4) Allow inspection of the laboratory facility and pertinent documents by FSIS officials prior to the determination of granting accredited status.
(5) Pay the accreditation fee by the date required.
§ 439.20
Criteria for maintaining accreditation.
(a)
Criteria.
To maintain accreditation, an analytical laboratory must fulfill the requirements of this section.
(b)
Records.
To demonstrate traceable and appropriate application of equipment, standards, procedures, analysts, and approvals related to accreditation, an accredited laboratory must:
(1) Maintain laboratory quality control records for the most recent three years that samples have been analyzed.
(2) Maintain complete records of the receipt, analysis, and disposition of samples for the most recent three years that samples have been analyzed.
(3) Maintain in a secure electronic format or in a standards book, all records, readings, and calculations for prepared standards. Entries are to be dated and the analyst identified at the time of the entry, and manual calculations verified and documented by the supervisor, or by the supervisor's designee, before use of the standard. The standards records are to be retained for three years after the last recorded entry. The certificates of analysis are to be kept on file for purchased standards for at least the period of time that the materials are in use.
(4) Maintain records of instrument maintenance and calibration. The records are to be retained for three years after the last recorded entry.
(5) As provided in paragraph (e) of this section, records are to be made available for review by any duly authorized representative of the Secretary of Agriculture, including ALP personnel or their designees.
(c)
Inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing sample.
(1) An accredited laboratory must analyze inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing samples and return the results to the ALP by the due date, which is usually within approximately three weeks of sample receipt. This must be done whenever requested by FSIS and at no cost to FSIS.
(2) Results must be those of the accredited laboratory. Analyses of proficiency testing samples must not be contracted out by the accredited laboratory.
(d)
Corporate changes.
The ALP must be informed within 30 days of any change of address or in the laboratory's ownership, officers, directors, supervisory personnel, or other responsibly connected individual or entity.
(e)
On-site review.
An accredited laboratory must permit any duly authorized representative of the Secretary to perform both announced and unannounced on-site laboratory reviews of facilities and records, both hard copy and electronic, during normal business hours, and to copy any records pertaining to the laboratory's participation in the ALP.
(f)
Analytical test procedures.
An accredited laboratory must use analytical test procedures designated by the FSIS ALP as being acceptable. FSIS and some AOAC analytical test procedures are acceptable.
(g)
Quality assurance levels.
An accredited laboratory must demonstrate the capability to maintain quality assurance levels that are within acceptable limits as evaluated by the ALP in the analysis of inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing samples for the analyte category for which accreditation was granted. An accredited laboratory will successfully demonstrate the maintenance of these capabilities if its results from inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing samples satisfy ALP evaluation criteria based on the ISO 13528 standard, to include performance evaluation by
z
score statistics.
(h)
Fees.
An accredited laboratory must pay the annual required accreditation fee when it is due.
(i)
Probation.
If placed on probation, an accredited laboratory must meet the ALP requirements as prescribed in this section in order to remove the probation status.
(1) The laboratory must successfully analyze a set of initial accreditation proficiency testing samples for the analyte(s) that triggered the probation and submit the analytical results to FSIS by the due date, which is typically within approximately three weeks of receipt of the samples.
(2) Similarly satisfy criteria for accreditation maintenance proficiency testing samples specified by the ALP in this part.
(3) Provide written corrective action documentation, related to the issue that triggered the probation, to the ALP by the date required.
(j)
Suspension.
If placed on suspension, an accredited laboratory must meet the ALP requirements as prescribed in this section in order to remove the suspension status. If the laboratory is unsuccessful in meeting the requirements to remove the suspension status, accreditation will be revoked.
(1) Laboratories that are suspended due to performance or response issues enter a waiting period of 60 days from the effective date of that action. After the 60-day period has passed, if the laboratory wishes to pursue reinstatement to the ALP, the laboratory must submit a written corrective action plan specifying what corrections were made and illustrate to FSIS that the corrections are effective or would reasonably be expected to be effective.
(i) After the corrective action plan has been accepted by the ALP, the laboratory must successfully analyze a set of initial accreditation proficiency testing samples for the analyte(s) that triggered the suspension and meet all other program requirements including payment of any annual fees that are due. The ALP may perform an on-site inspection at the laboratory's facility and/or require the laboratory to provide documentation to confirm that it meets the requirements of the program.
(ii) The suspended laboratory is allowed two attempts to successfully analyze the initial accreditation proficiency testing set(s) of samples.
(2) Laboratories that are suspended due to indictment or charges as described in § 439.52 may not seek removal of suspension status until being cleared of said indictment or charges.
§ 439.50
Refusal of accreditation.
Upon a determination by the FSIS Administrator (Administrator), a laboratory will be refused accreditation for the following reasons:
(a) A laboratory will be refused accreditation for failure to meet the requirements of the ALP as stated in this part.
(b) A laboratory will be refused accreditation if the laboratory or any individual or entity responsibly connected with the laboratory has been convicted of, or is under indictment for, or has charges on any information brought against them in a Federal or State court concerning any of the following violations of law:
(1) Any felony.
(2) Any misdemeanor based upon acquiring, handling, or distributing of unwholesome, misbranded, or deceptively packaged food or upon fraud in connection with transactions in food.
(3) Any misdemeanor based upon a false statement to any governmental agency.
(4) Any misdemeanor based upon the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe or unlawful gratuity.
(5) Altering any official sample or analytical finding; or substituting any analytical result from any other laboratory and representing the result as its own.
§ 439.51
Probation of accreditation.
Upon a determination by the Administrator, a laboratory will be placed on probation for the following reasons:
(a) If the laboratory fails to complete more than one inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing sample analysis within 12 consecutive months, unless written permission is granted by the Administrator.
(b) If the laboratory does not respond to ALP inquiries related to its participation in the program or fails to meet any of the requirements or criteria set in this part.
(c) If the laboratory does not successfully demonstrate the maintenance of quality assurance capabilities including its results from inter-laboratory accreditation maintenance proficiency testing samples. ALP evaluation criteria are based on the ISO 13528 standard, to include performance evaluation by
z
score statistics.
§ 439.52
Suspension of accreditation.
A laboratory will be suspended from the program if probation status is not rectified according to program requirements stated in this part. The accreditation of a laboratory will be immediately suspended if the laboratory or any individual or entity responsibly connected with the laboratory is indicted or has charges on information brought against them in a Federal or State court for any of the following violations of law. A laboratory must notify the ALP within 30 calendar days if any of these situations occur.
(a) Any felony.
(b) Any misdemeanor based upon acquiring, handling, or distributing of unwholesome, misbranded, or deceptively packaged food or upon fraud in connection with transactions in food.
(c) Any misdemeanor based upon a false statement to any governmental agency.
(d) Any misdemeanor based upon the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe or unlawful gratuity.
(e) Altering any official sample or analytical finding; or substituting any analytical result from any other laboratory and representing the result as its own.
§ 439.53
Revocation of accreditation.
A laboratory will have its accreditation revoked from the program if suspension status is not rectified. The accreditation of a laboratory will also be revoked for the following reasons:
(a) An accredited laboratory will have its accreditation revoked if the Administrator determines that the laboratory or any responsibly connected individual or any agent or employee has:
(1) Altered any official sample or analytical finding; or
(2) Substituted any analytical result from any other laboratory and represented the result as its own.
(b) An accredited laboratory will have its accreditation revoked if the laboratory or any individual or entity responsibly connected with the laboratory is convicted in a Federal or State court of any of the following violations of law. A laboratory must notify the ALP within 30 calendar days if any of these situations occur.
(1) Any felony.
(2) Any misdemeanor based upon acquiring, handling, or distributing of
unwholesome, misbranded, or deceptively packaged food or upon fraud in connection with transactions in food.
(3) Any misdemeanor based upon a false statement to any governmental agency.
(4) Any misdemeanor based upon the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe or unlawful gratuity.
§ 439.60
Notifications and hearings.
Accreditation of any laboratory will be refused, suspended, or revoked under the conditions previously described in this part. The owner or operator of the laboratory will be sent written notice of the refusal, suspension, or revocation of accreditation by the Administrator. In such cases, the laboratory owner or operator will be provided an opportunity to present, within 30 days of the date of the notification, a statement challenging the merits or validity of such action and to request an oral hearing with respect to the denial, suspension, or revocation decision. An oral hearing will be granted if there is any dispute of material fact joined in such responsive statement. The proceeding will be conducted thereafter in accordance with the applicable rules of practice, which will be adopted for the proceeding. Any such refusal, suspension, or revocation will be effective upon the receipt by the laboratory of the notification and will continue in effect until final determination of the matter by the Administrator.
Pt. 441

# PART 441—CONSUMER PROTECTION STANDARDS: RAW PRODUCTS

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695; 7 U.S.C. 450, 1901-1906; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
66 FR 1771, Jan. 9, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 441.10
Retained water.
(a) Raw livestock, poultry, and fish carcasses and parts will not be permitted to retain water resulting from post-evisceration processing unless the establishment preparing those carcasses and parts demonstrates to FSIS, with data collected in accordance with a written protocol, that any water retained in the carcasses or parts is an unavoidable consequence of the process used to meet applicable food safety requirements.
(b) Raw livestock, poultry, and fish carcasses and parts that retain water from post-evisceration processing and that are sold, transported, offered for sale or transportation, or received for transportation, in commerce, must bear a statement on the label in prominent letters and contiguous to the product name or elsewhere on the principal display panel of the label stating the maximum percentage of water that may be retained (
e.g.,
“up to X% retained water,” “less than X% retained water,” “up to X% water added from processing”). The percent water statement need not accompany the product name on other parts of the label. Raw livestock and poultry carcasses and parts that retain no water may bear a statement that no water is retained.
(c)(1) An establishment subject to paragraph (a) of this section must maintain on file and available to FSIS its written data-collection protocol. The protocol must explain how data will be collected and used to demonstrate the amount of retained water in the product covered by the protocol that is an unavoidable consequence of the process used to meet specified food safety requirements.
(2) The establishment must notify FSIS as soon as it has a new or revised protocol available for review by the Agency. Within 30 days after receipt of this notification, FSIS may object to or require the establishment to make changes in the protocol.
(d) Expected elements of a protocol for gathering water retention data:
(1)
Purpose statement.
The primary purpose of the protocol should be to determine the amount or percentage of water absorption and retention that is unavoidable using a particular chilling system while achieving the regulatory pathogen reduction performance standard for
Salmonella
as set forth in the PR/HACCP regulations (9 CFR 310.25(b), 381.94(b)) and the time/temperature requirements set forth in 9 CFR 381.66. Additional purposes that could be included are determining chilling system efficiency and evaluating product quality.
(2)
Type of washing and chilling system used by the establishment.
Any post-evisceration washing or chilling processes that affect water retention levels in and microbial loads on raw products should be described. For poultry establishments, the main chiller types, identified by the mechanism used to transport the birds through the chiller or to agitate the water in the chiller, are the drag-through, the screw type, and the rocker-arm type.
(3)
Configuration and any modifications of the chiller system components.
A description of chiller-system configurations and modifications should be provided. The description should include the number and type of chillers in a series and arrangements of chilling system components, and the number of evisceration lines feeding into a chiller system. If there is a pre-chilling step in the process, its purpose and the type of equipment used should be accurately described. Any mechanical or design changes made to the chilling equipment should be described.
(4)
Special features in the chilling process.
Any special features in the chilling process, such as antimicrobial treatments, should be described. Also, the length and velocity of the dripping line should be described, as well as the total time allowed for dripping. Any special apparatus, such as a mechanism for squeezing excessive water from chilled birds, should be explained.
(5)
Description of variable factors in the chilling system.
The protocol should describe variable factors that affect water absorption and retention. In poultry processing, such factors are typically considered to be the time in chiller water, the water temperature, and agitation. The protocol should consider air agitation, where applicable. Additional factors that may affect water absorption and retention are scalding temperature and the pressure or amount of buffeting applied to birds by feather removal machinery, and the resultant loosening of the skin. Another factor that should be considered is the method used to open the bird for evisceration.
(6)
Standards to be met by the chilling system.
For example, the chilling system may be designed simply to achieve a reduction in temperature of ready-to-cook poultry to less than 40 °F within the time limit specified by the regulations, or in less time. As to the standard for pathogen minimization, the
Salmonella
pathogen reduction standards, as set forth in the PR/HACCP final rule, have been suggested. Although there is not yet an applicable
Salmonella
standard for turkeys, establishments are free to adopt practicable criteria for use in gathering data on turkeys under the protocols here suggested. Additional microbiological targets, such as
E. coli
or
Campylobacter
levels, or reductions in numbers of other microorganisms, may also be used.
(7)
Testing methods to be employed.
The protocol should detail the testing methods to be used both for measuring water absorption and retention and for sampling and testing product for pathogen reductions. The protocol should call for water retention and pathogen reduction tests at various chilling equipment settings and chilling time-and-temperature combinations. The method to be used in calculating water absorption and retention should be reproducible and statistically verifiable. With respect to the pathogen-reduction aspect of the testing, FSIS recommends the methods used for
E. coli
and
Salmonella
testing under the PR/HACCP regulations. The number of samples, the type of samples, the sampling time period, and the type of testing or measurement should be included in the protocol.
(8)
Reporting of data and evaluation of results.
The protocol should explain how data obtained are to be reported and summarized. The criteria for evaluating the results and the basis for conclusions to be drawn should be explained.
(9)
Conclusions.
The protocol should provide for a statement of what the data obtained demonstrate and what conclusions were reached.
[66 FR 1771, Jan. 9, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015]
Pt. 442

# PART 442—QUANTITY OF CONTENTS LABELING AND PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCURATE WEIGHTS
Sec.
442.1
Quantity of contents labeling.
442.2
Definitions and procedures for determining net weight compliance.
442.3
Scale requirements for accurate weights, repairs, adjustments, and replacement after inspection.
442.4
Testing of scales.
442.5
Handling of failed product.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
73 FR 52192, Sept. 9, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 442.1
Quantity of contents labeling.
This part prescribes the procedures to be followed for determining net weight compliance and prescribes the reasonable variations allowed from the declared net weight on the labels of immediate containers of products in accordance with 9 CFR 317.2(c)(4), 317.2(h), and 381.121.
§ 442.2
Definitions and procedures for determining net weight compliance.
(a) For the purpose of § 442.1 of this part, the reasonable variations allowed, and the definitions and the procedures to be used, in determining net weight and net weight compliance are presented in the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Handbook 133, “Checking the Net Contents of Packaged Goods,” Fourth Edition, January 2005, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of NIST Handbook 133 may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, 732 N. Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20401. You may contact the Government Printing Office Toll-Free at 1-866-512-1800 or go to:
http://bookstore.gpo.gov.
You may inspect a copy of NIST Handbook 133 at the FSIS Docket Room, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food Safety and Inspection Service, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Room 2534, Washington, DC 20250. You can contact the FSIS Docket room by calling 202-720-0344 or 202-720-3813. The NIST Handbook 133 is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) The following NIST Handbook 133 requirements are not incorporated by reference.

# Chapter 2—Basic Test Procedure—Gravimetric Testing
2.3 Basic Test Procedure—Tare Procedures—
Wet Tare
2.3 Basic Test Procedure—Moisture Allowances—
What moisture allowance is used with wet tare when testing packages bearing a USDA seal of inspection?
2.4 Borax

# Chapter 3—Test Procedures—For Packages Labeled by Volume
3.5 Mayonnaise and Salad Dressing
3.7 Pressed and Blown Glass Tumblers and Stemware
3.8 Volumetric Test Procedures for Paint, Varnish, and Lacquers—Non Aerosol
3.9 Testing Viscous Materials—Such as Caulking Compounds and Pasters
3.10 Peat Moss
3.11 Mulch and Soils Labeled by Volume
3.12 Ice Cream Novelties
3.13 Fresh Oysters Labeled by Volume
3.14 Determining the Net Contents of Compressed Gas Cylinders
3.15 Volumetric Test Procedures for Packaged Firewood with a Labeled Volume of 133 L (4 Cu Ft) or Less
3.16 Boxed Firewood
3.17 Crosshatched Firewood
3.18 Bundles and Bags of Firewood

# Chapter 4—Test Procedures—Packages Labeled by Count, Linear Measure, Area, Thickness, and Combinations of Quantities
4.5 Paper Plates and Sanitary Paper Products
4.6 Special Test Requirements for Packages Labeled by Linear or Square Measure (Area)
4.7 Polyethylene sheeting
4.8 Packages Labeled by Linear or Square (Area) Measure
4.9 Bailer Twine—Test Procedure for Length
4.10 Procedure for Checking the Area Measurement of Chamois Appendix C Glossary—wet tare
§ 442.3
Scale requirements for accurate weights, repairs, adjustments, and replacements after inspection.
(a) All scales used to determine the net weight of meat and poultry products sold or otherwise distributed in commerce in federally inspected meat and poultry establishments will be installed, maintained, and operated in a manner that ensures accurate weights. Such scales shall meet the applicable requirements contained in National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Handbook 44, ”Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements for Weighing and Measuring Devices,” 1999 Edition, November 1988, which is incorporated by reference. This incorporation was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. (These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of approval.) A notice of any change in the Handbook cited here will be published in the
Federal Register.
Copies may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. The incorporation information also is available for inspection at the Office of the Federal Register Information Center, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC 20408.
(b) All scales used to determine the net weight of meat or poultry products sold or otherwise distributed in commerce or in States designated under section 301(c) of the Federal Meat Inspection Act and section 5(c) of the Poultry Products Inspection Act shall be of sufficient capacity to weigh the entire unit or package.
(c) No scale will be used at a federally inspected establishment to determine the net weight of meat or poultry products unless it has been found upon test and inspection, as specified in NIST Handbook 44 to provide accurate weight. If a scale is inspected or tested and found to be inaccurate, or if any repairs, adjustments, or replacements are made to a scale, it shall not be used until it has been reinspected and retested by a USDA official, or a State or local government weights and measures official, or a State registered or licensed scale repair firm or person, and it must meet all accuracy requirements as specified in NIST Handbook 44. If a USDA inspector has put a ”Retain” tag on a scale, the tag can only be removed by a USDA inspector. As long as the tag is on the scale, it shall not be used.
§ 442.4
Testing of scales.
(a) The operator of each official establishment that weighs meat or poultry food products will cause such scales to be tested for accuracy in accordance with the technical requirements of NIST Handbook 44, at least once during the calendar year. In cases where the scales are found not to maintain accuracy between tests, more frequent tests may be required and verified by an authorized USDA program official.
(b) The operator of each official establishment shall display on or near each scale a valid certification of the scale's accuracy from a State or local government's weights and measures authority or from a State registered or licensed scale repair firm or person, or shall have alternative documented procedures showing that the scale has been tested for accuracy in accordance with the requirements of NIST Handbook 44.
§ 442.5
Handling of failed product.
Any lot of product that is found to be out of compliance with net weight requirements upon testing in accordance with the methods prescribed in § 442.2 of this subchapter shall be handled as follows:
(a) A lot tested in an official establishment and found not to comply with net weight requirements may be reprocessed and must be reweighed and remarked to satisfy the net weight requirements of this section in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(b) A lot tested outside an official establishment and found not to comply with net weight requirements must be reweighed and remarked with a proper net weight statement, provided that such reweighing and remarking will not deface, cover, or destroy any other marking or labeling required under this subchapter, and the net quantity of contents is shown with the same prominence as the most conspicuous feature of a label.
Pt. 500

# PART 500—RULES OF PRACTICE
Sec.
500.1
Definitions.
500.2
Regulatory control action.
500.3
Withholding or suspension of inspection without prior notification.
500.4
Withholding action or suspension of inspection with prior notification.
500.5
Notification, appeals, and actions held in abeyance.
500.6
Withdrawal of inspection.
500.7
Refusal to grant inspection.
500.8
Procedures for rescinding or refusing approval of marks, labels, sizes, and containers.
500.9
Procedures for the filing of appeals.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 451-470, 601-695, 1031-1056; 7 U.S.C. 450, 1901-1906; (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
); 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 500.1
Definitions.
(a) A “regulatory control action” is the retention of product, rejection of equipment or facilities, slowing or stopping of lines, or refusal to allow the processing of specifically identified product.
(b) A “withholding action” is the refusal to allow the marks of inspection to be applied to products. A withholding action may affect all product in the establishment or product produced by a particular process.
(c) A “suspension” is an interruption in the assignment of program employees to all or part of an establishment; and (d) An establishment subject to Federal inspection or facility receiving voluntary inspection services under the regulations is “adversely affected” when that person has a legally cognizable interest, and the decision or action has caused or is substantially likely to cause injury to that interest.
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 87 FR 63424, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 500.2
Regulatory control action.
(a) FSIS may take a regulatory control action because of:
(1) Insanitary conditions or practices;
(2) Product adulteration or misbranding;
(3) Conditions that preclude FSIS from determining that product is not adulterated or misbranded; or
(4) Inhumane handling or slaughtering of livestock.
(b) If a regulatory control action is taken, the program employee will immediately notify the establishment orally or in writing of the action and the basis for the action.
(c) An establishment may appeal a regulatory control action, as provided in §§ 306.5, 381.35, and 590.310 of this chapter.
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 68672, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 500.3
Withholding action or suspension without prior notification.
(a) FSIS may take a withholding action or impose a suspension without providing the establishment prior notification because:
(1) The establishment produced and shipped adulterated or misbranded product as defined in 21 U.S.C. 453, 21 U.S.C. 602, or 21 U.S.C. 1033;
(2) The establishment does not have a HACCP plan as specified in § 417.2 of this chapter;
(3) The establishment does not have Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures as specified in §§ 416.11-416.12 of this chapter;
(4) Sanitary conditions are such that products in the establishment are or would be rendered adulterated;
(5) The establishment violated the terms of a regulatory control action;
(6) An establishment operator, officer, employee, or agent assaulted, threatened to assault, intimidated, or interfered with an FSIS employee; or
(7) The establishment did not destroy a condemned meat or poultry carcass, or part or product thereof, or egg product, that has been found to be adulterated and that has not been reprocessed, in accordance with part 314 or part 381, subpart L, or part 590 of this chapter within three days of notification.
(b) FSIS also may impose a suspension without providing the establishment prior notification because the establishment is handling or slaughtering animals inhumanely.
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 68673, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 500.4
Withholding action or suspension with prior notification.
FSIS may take a withholding action or impose a suspension after an establishment is provided prior notification and the opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance because:
(a) The HACCP system is inadequate, as specified in § 417.6 of this chapter, due to multiple or recurring noncompliances;
(b) The Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures have not been properly implemented or maintained as specified in §§ 416.13 through 416.16 of this chapter;
(c) The establishment has not maintained sanitary conditions as prescribed in §§ 416.2-416.8 of this chapter due to multiple or recurring noncompliances;
(d) The establishment did not collect and analyze samples for
Escherichia coli
Biotype I and record results in accordance with § 310.25(a) or § 381.94(a) of this chapter;
(e) The establishment did not meet the
Salmonella
performance standard requirements prescribed in § 310.25(b) or § 381.94(b) of this chapter.
§ 500.5
Notification, appeals, and actions held in abeyance.
(a) If FSIS takes a withholding action or imposes a suspension, the establishment will be notified orally and, as promptly as circumstances permit, in writing. The written notification will:
(1) State the effective date of the action(s),
(2) Describe the reasons for the action(s),
(3) Identify the products or processes affected by the action(s),
(4) Provide the establishment an opportunity to present immediate and corrective action and further planned preventive action; and
(5) Advise the establishment that it may appeal the action as provided in §§ 306.5, 381.35, and 590.310 of this chapter.
(b) The prior notification provided for in § 500.4 of this part will:
(1) State the type of action that FSIS may take;
(2) Describe the reason for the proposed action;
(3) Identify the products or processes affected by the proposed action;
(4) Advise the establishment of its right to contact FSIS to contest the basis for the proposed action or to explain how compliance has been or will be achieved; and
(5) Advise the establishment that it will have three business days from receipt of the written notification to respond to FSIS unless the time period is extended by FSIS.
(c) An establishment may appeal the withholding action or suspension, as provided in §§ 306.5, 381.35, and 590.310 of this chapter.
(d) If FSIS suspends inspection and does not hold the suspension action in abeyance as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the establishment may request a hearing pursuant to the Uniform Rules of Practice, 7 CFR Subtitle A, part 1, subpart H. Upon such request, the Administrator will file a complaint that will include a request for an expedited hearing.
(e) FSIS may hold a suspension in abeyance and allow the establishment to operate under the conditions agreed to by FSIS and the establishment.
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 68673, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 500.6
Withdrawal of inspection.
(a)The FSIS Administrator may file a complaint to withdraw a grant of Federal inspection in accordance with the Uniform Rules of Practice, 7 CFR subtitle A, part 1, subpart H because:
(1) An establishment produced and shipped adulterated product;
(2) An establishment did not have or maintain a HACCP plan in accordance with part 417 of this chapter;
(3) An establishment did not have or maintain Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures in accordance with part 416 of this chapter;
(4) An establishment did not maintain sanitary conditions;
(5) An establishment did not collect and analyze samples for
Escherichia coli
Biotype I and record results as prescribed in § 310.25(a) or § 381.94(a) of this chapter;
(6) [Reserved]
(7) An establishment did not slaughter or handle livestock humanely;
(8) An establishment operator, officer, employee, or agent assaulted, threatened to assault, intimidated, or interfered with an FSIS program employee; or
(9) A recipient of inspection or anyone responsibly connected to the recipient is unfit to engage in any business requiring inspection as specified in section 401 of the FMIA, section 18(a) of the PPIA, or section 18 of the EPIA.
(b) [Reserved]
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 49637, Aug. 21, 2014; 85 FR 68673, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 500.7
Refusal to grant inspection.
(a) The FSIS Administrator may refuse to grant Federal inspection because an applicant:
(1) Does not have a HACCP plan as required by part 417 of this chapter;
(2) Does not have Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures as required by part 416 of this chapter;
(3) Has not demonstrated that adequate sanitary conditions exist in the establishment as required by part 308, subpart H of part 381, part 416, or part 590 of this chapter;
(4) Has not demonstrated that livestock will be handled and slaughtered humanely; or
(5) Is unfit to engage in any business requiring inspection as specified in section 401 of the FMIA, section 18(a) of the PPIA, or section 18 of the EPIA.
(b) If the Administrator refuses to grant inspection, the applicant will be provided the opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the Uniform Rules of Practice, 7 CFR Subtitle A, part 1, subpart H.
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 68673, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 500.8
Procedures for rescinding or refusing approval of marks, labels, and containers.
(a) FSIS may rescind or refuse approval of false or misleading marks, labels, or sizes or forms of any container for use with any meat, poultry, or egg product, under section 7 of the FMIA, under section 8 of the PPIA, or under sections 7 or 14 of the EPIA.
(b) FSIS will provide written notification that:
(1) Explains the reason for rescinding or refusing the approval;
(2) Provides an opportunity for the establishment to modify the marking, labeling, or container so that it will no longer be false or misleading; and
(3) Advises the establishment of its opportunity to submit a written statement to respond to the notification and to request a hearing.
(c) If FSIS rescinds or refuses approval of false or misleading marks, labels, or sizes or forms of any container for use with any meat, poultry, or egg product, an opportunity for a hearing will be provided in accordance with the Uniform Rules of Practice, 7 CFR subtitle A, part 1, subpart H.
[64 FR 66546, Nov. 29, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 68673, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 500.9
Procedures for the filing of appeals.
(a) Any establishment subject to Federal inspection or facility under voluntary inspection and adversely affected by a decision or action of an inspector or other Agency employee related to an inspection activity mandated under the FMIA, PPIA, or EPIA or related to voluntary reimbursable inspection services allowed under the AMA may appeal the decision or action. Initial appeals of an applicable decision or action, as well as subsequent appeals of denied appeals through final Agency action, must be made within 30 calendar days after receipt of written notification of the contested decision or action. Appeals may be supported by any argument or evidence that the appellant may wish to offer as to why the contested decision or action should be reconsidered.
(b) Any initial appeal of a decision or action of an inspector or other Agency employee must be made to his/her immediate supervisor having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the appeal.
[87 FR 63424, Oct. 19, 2022]

# SUBCHAPTER F—MANDATORY INSPECTION OF FISH OF THE ORDER SILURIFORMES AND PRODUCTS OF SUCH FISH
Pt. 530

# PART 530—GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; DEFINITIONS
Sec.
530.1
General.
530.2
FSIS organization for fish inspection.
530.3
Access to establishments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 138f; 7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 530.1
General.
(a) The regulations in this subchapter provide for the inspection of Siluriformes fish and fish products. The inspection and regulations are intended to prevent the sale, transportation, offer for sale or transportation, or receipt for transportation, in commerce of any fish or fish product that is capable of use as human food and is adulterated or misbranded at the time of the sale, transportation, offer for sale or transportation, or receipt for transportation.
(b) Fish as defined in this subchapter are amenable to the Act, including, as the Administrator may determine, to provisions of the Act in which other amenable species are named, except where the Act specifically excludes the provisions from applicability to fish.
§ 530.2
FSIS organization for inspection of fish and fish products.
The Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, administers an inspection program for fish and fish products. The organization of FSIS and the principal offices of FSIS and their functions are described, and organizational terms defined, in 9 CFR part 300, subchapter A of this chapter. Section 300.3 lists the FSIS district offices and the geographic areas of the districts.
§ 530.3
Access to establishments.
The provisions of 9 CFR 300.6 apply to fish processing establishments and related industries as they do to other establishments subject to the FMIA.
Pt. 531

# PART 531—DEFINITIONS

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 138f; 7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.
§ 531.1
Definitions.
As used in this subchapter, unless otherwise required by the context, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:
Act.
The Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, (34 Stat. 1260, as amended, 81 Stat. 584, 84 Stat. 438, 92 Stat. 1069, 106 Stat. 4499, 119 Stat. 2166, 122 Stat. 1369, 122 Stat. 2130, 21 U.S.C., sec. 601
et seq.
).
Adulterated.
This term applies to any carcass, part thereof, fish or fish food product under one or more of the following circumstances:
(1) If it bears or contains any such poisonous or deleterious substance which may render it injurious to health; but in case the substance is not an added substance, such article shall not be considered adulterated under this clause if the quantity of such substance in or on such article does not ordinarily render it injurious to health;
(2)(i) If it bears or contains (by reason of administration of any substance to the live animal or otherwise) any added poisonous or added deleterious substance (other than one which is:
(A) A pesticide chemical in or on a raw agricultural commodity;
(B) A food additive; or
(C) A color additive which may, in the judgment of the Administrator, make such article unfit for human food;
(ii) If it is, in whole or in part, a raw agricultural commodity and such commodity bears or contains a pesticide chemical which is unsafe within the meaning of section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(iii) If it bears or contains any food additive which is unsafe within the meaning of section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(iv) If it bears or contains any color additive which is unsafe within the
meaning of section 706 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act: Provided, That an article which is not deemed adulterated under paragraphs (2)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this definition shall nevertheless be deemed adulterated if use of the pesticide chemical food additive, or color additive in or on such article is prohibited by the regulations in this subchapter in official establishments;
(3) If it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or decomposed substance or is for any other reason unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit for human food;
(4) If it has been prepared, packed, or held under unsanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with filth, or whereby it may have been rendered injurious to health;
(5) If it is, in whole or in part, the product of an animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter;
(6) If its container is composed, in whole or in part, of any poisonous or deleterious substance that may render the contents injurious to health;
(7) If it has been intentionally subjected to radiation, unless the use of the radiation was in conformity with a regulation or exemption in effect pursuant to section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(8) If any valuable constituent has been in whole or in part omitted or abstracted therefrom; or if any substance has been substituted, wholly or in part therefore; or if damage or inferiority has been concealed in any manner; or if any substance has been added thereto or mixed or packed therewith so as to increase its bulk or weight, or reduce its quality or strength, or make it appear better or of greater value than it is.
Amenable species.
A species that is, and whose products are, subject to the Act and regulations promulgated under the Act, except as the Act may provide.
Animal food.
Any article intended for use as food for dogs, cats, or other animals, derived wholly, or in part, from the carcass or parts or products of the carcass of any amenable species, except that the term animal food as used herein does not include:
(1) Processed dry animal food or
(2) Feeds for amenable species manufactured from processed by products of amenable species.
Applicant.
Any person who requests inspection service, exemption, or other authorization under the regulations.
Biological residue.
Any substance, including metabolites, remaining in fish at time of slaughter or in any of their tissues after slaughter as the result of treatment or exposure of the fish to a pesticide, organic or inorganic compound, hormone, hormone like substance, anthelmintic, or other therapeutic or prophylactic agent.
Capable of use as human food.
This term applies to any carcass or part or product of a carcass of any fish unless it is denatured or otherwise identified as required by § 540.3 of this subchapter to deter its use as a human food, or it is naturally inedible by humans;
e.g.,
barbels or fins in their natural state.
Carcass.
All parts, including viscera, of any slaughtered livestock.
Commerce.
Commerce between any State, any Territory, or the District of Columbia, and any place outside thereof; or within any Territory not organized with a legislative body, or the District of Columbia.
Consumer package.
Any container in which a fish product is enclosed for the purpose of display and sale to household consumers.
Container.
Any box, can, tin, cloth, plastic, or any other receptacle, wrapper, or cover.
Dead fish.
The body of a fish that has died otherwise than by slaughter.
Dying or diseased fish.
Fish affected by any of the conditions for which the fish are required to be condemned under part 539 or other regulations in this subchapter.
Edible.
Intended for use as human food.
Farm-raised.
Grown under controlled conditions, within an enclosed space, as on a farm.
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
The Act so entitled, approved June 25, 1938 (52 Stat. 1040), and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto.
Firm.
Any partnership, association, or other unincorporated business organization.
Fish.
(1) For the purposes of this subchapter, any fish of the order Siluriformes, whether live or dead.
(2) The skeletal muscle tissue of fish. As applied to products of fish of the order Siluriformes, this term has a meaning comparable to that of “meat” in the meat inspection regulations (9 CFR 301.2).
Fish byproduct.
Any fish part capable of use as human food, other than the skeletal muscle tissue, that has been derived from one or more fish.
Fish food product.
Any article capable of use as human food that is made wholly or in part from any fish or part thereof; or any product that is made wholly or in part from any fish or part thereof, excepting those exempted from definition as a fish product by the Administrator in specific cases or by a regulation in this subchapter; upon a determination that they contain fish ingredients only in a relatively small proportion or historically have not been considered by consumers as products of the fish food industry, and provided that they comply with any requirements that are imposed in such cases or regulations as conditions of such exemptions to ensure that the fish meat or other portions of such carcasses contained in such articles are not adulterated, and that such articles are not represented as fish food products.
Fish product.
Any fish or fish part; or any product that is made wholly or in part from any fish or fish part, except for those exempted from definition as a fish product by the Administrator in a regulation in this subchapter. Except where the context requires otherwise (
e.g.,
in part 540 of this subchapter), this term is limited to articles capable of use as human food.
Further processing.
Smoking, cooking, canning, curing, refining, or rendering in an official establishment of product previously prepared in official establishments.
Immediate container.
The receptacle or other covering in which any product is directly contained or wholly or partially enclosed.
Inedible.
Adulterated, uninspected, or not intended for use as human food.
“Inspected and passed” or “U.S. Inspected and Passed” or “U.S. Inspected and Passed by Department of Agriculture” (or any authorized abbreviation thereof).
This term means that the product so identified has been inspected and passed under the regulations in this subchapter, and at the time it was inspected, passed, and identified, it was found to be not adulterated.
Label.
A display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container (not including package liners) of any article.
Labeling.
All labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter:
(1) Upon any article or any of its containers or wrappers, or
(2) Accompanying such article.
Misbranded.
This term applies to any carcass, part thereof, fish or fish food product under one or more of the following circumstances:
(1) If its labeling is false or misleading in any particular;
(2) If it is offered for sale under the name of another food;
(3) If it is an imitation of another food, unless its label bears, in type of uniform size and prominence, the word “imitation” and immediately thereafter, the name of the food imitated;
(4) If its container is so made, formed, or filled as to be misleading;
(5) If in a package or other container unless it bears a label showing:
(i) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor; and
(ii) An accurate statement of the quantity of the contents in terms of weight, measure, or numerical count; except as otherwise provided in part 317 of this subchapter with respect to the quantity of contents;
(6) If any word, statement, or other information required by or under authority of the Act to appear on the label or other labeling is not prominently placed thereon with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices, in the labeling) and in such terms as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use;
(7) If it purports to be or is represented as a food for which a definition and standard of identity or composition has been prescribed by the regulations in part 319 of this subchapter unless:
(i) It conforms to such definition and standard, and
(ii) Its label bears the name of the food specified in the definition and standard and, insofar as may be required by such regulations, the common names of optional ingredients (other than spices, flavoring, and coloring) present in such food;
(8) If it purports to be or is represented as a food for which a standard or standards of fill of container have been prescribed by the regulations in part 319 of this subchapter, and it falls below the standard of fill of container applicable thereto, unless its label bears, in such manner and form as such regulations specify, a statement that it falls below such standard;
(9) If it is not subject to the provisions of paragraph (7)(ii) of this definition unless its label bears:
(i) The common or usual name of the food, if any there be, and
(ii) In case it is fabricated from two or more ingredients, the common or usual name of each such ingredient, except as otherwise provided in part 317 of this subchapter;
(10) If it purports to be or is represented for special dietary uses, unless its label bears such information concerning its vitamin, mineral, and other dietary properties as is required by the regulations in part 317 of this subchapter.
(11) If it bears or contains any artificial flavoring, artificial coloring, or chemical preservative, unless it bears a label stating that fact; except as otherwise provided by the regulations in part 317 of this subchapter; or
(12) If it fails to bear, directly thereon or on its containers, when required by the regulations in part 316 or 317 of this subchapter, the inspection legend and, unrestricted by any of the foregoing, such other information as the Administrator may require in such regulations to assure that it will not have false or misleading labeling and that the public will be informed of the manner of handling required to maintain the article in a wholesome condition.
Nonfood compound.
Any substance proposed for use in official establishments, the intended use of which will not result, directly or indirectly, in the substance becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of fish food and fish products excluding labeling and packaging materials as covered in part 541 of this subchapter.
Official certificate.
Any certificate prescribed by the regulations in this subchapter for issuance by an inspector or other person performing official functions under the Act.
Official device.
Any device prescribed by the regulations in part 312 of this subchapter for use in applying any official mark.
Official establishment.
Any slaughtering, cutting, boning, fish product canning, curing, smoking, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment at which inspection is maintained under the regulations in this subchapter.
Official import inspection establishment.
This term means any establishment, other than an official establishment as defined in this section, where inspections are authorized to be conducted as prescribed in part 557 of this subchapter.
Official inspection legend.
Any symbol prescribed by the regulations in this subchapter showing that an article was inspected and passed in accordance with the Act.
Official mark.
The official inspection legend or any other symbol prescribed by the regulations in this subchapter to identify the status of any article, fish, or fish product under the Act.
Packaging material.
Any cloth, paper, plastic, metal, or other material used to form a container, wrapper, label, or cover for fish products.
Person.
Any individual, firm, or corporation.
Pesticide chemical, food additive, color additive, raw agricultural commodity.
These terms shall have the same meanings for purposes of the Act and the regulations in this subchapter as under the Federal, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Prepared.
Slaughtered, canned, salted, rendered, boned, cut up, or otherwise manufactured or processed.
Process authority.
A person or organization with expert knowledge in fish production process control and relevant regulations. This definition does not apply to § 548.6 of this subchapter or to subpart G of part 318 of this chapter.
Process schedule.
A written description of processing procedures, consisting of any number of specific, sequential operations directly under the control of the establishment employed in the manufacture of a specific product, including the control, monitoring, verification, validation, and corrective action activities associated with production. This definition does not apply to § 548.6 of this subchapter or to subpart G of part 318 of this chapter.
Producer.
Any person engaged in the business of growing farm-raised fish.
Product.
Any carcass, fish, fish product, or fish food product, capable of use as human food.
Program.
The organizational unit within the Department having the responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the Act.
Program employee.
Any inspector or other individual employed by the Department or any cooperating agency who is authorized by the Secretary to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the Program.
Slaughter.
With respect to fish, intentional killing under controlled conditions.
State.
Any State of the United States or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Territory.
Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
U.S. Condemned.
This term means that the fish, part, or product of fish so identified was inspected and found to be adulterated and is condemned.
U.S. Detained.
This term applies to fish, fish products, and other articles which are held in official custody in accordance with section 402 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 672), pending disposal as provided in the same section 402.
U.S. Retained.
This term means that the fish, part, or product of fish so identified is held for further examination by an inspector at an official establishment to determine its disposal.
United States.
The States, the District of Columbia, and the Territories of the United States.
[80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015]
Pt. 532

# PART 532—REQUIREMENTS FOR INSPECTION
Sec.
532.1
Establishments requiring inspection.
532.2
Application for inspection; information to be furnished; grant or refusal of Inspection; conditions for receiving inspection; official numbers and inspection; assignment and authorities of Program employees.
532.3
Exemption of retail operations.
532.4
Inspection at official establishments; relation to other authorities.
532.5
Exemption from definition of fish product of certain human food products containing fish.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 138f; 7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 532.1
Establishments requiring inspection; other inspection.
(a) No establishment may process or prepare fish, fish parts, or fish products capable of use as human food, or sell, transport, or offer for sale or transportation in commerce any of these articles without inspection under these regulations, except as expressly exempted in § 532.3.
(b) Inspection under the regulations is required at:
(1) Every establishment, except as provided in the regulation on exemption of retail operations (§ 532.3), in which any fish or fish products are wholly or in part, processed for transportation or sale in commerce, as articles intended for use as human food.
(2) Every establishment, except as provided in the regulation on exemption of retail operations (§ 532.3), within any State or organized territory which is designated pursuant to section 301 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 661), at which any fish or fish products are processed for use as human food solely for distribution within that State or territory.
(3) Except as provided in the regulation on exemption of retail operations (§ 532.3), every establishment designated by the administrator under
section 301 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 661) as one producing adulterated fish products which would clearly endanger the public health.
(4)
Coverage of fish and fish products processed in official establishments.
All fish and fish products prepared in an official establishment must be inspected, handled, processed, marked, and labeled as required by the regulations.
(5)
Other inspection.
Periodic inspections may be made of:
(i) The records of all persons engaged in the business of hatching, feeding, growing, or transporting fish between premises where fish are bred, hatcheries, and premises where fish are grown, and from these premises to processing establishments.
(ii) Exempted retail establishments to determine that those establishments are operating in accordance with these regulations.
§ 532.2
Application for inspection; information to be furnished; grant or refusal of Inspection; conditions for receiving inspection; official numbers and inspection; assignment and authorities of Program employees.
(a) Application for inspection is as required by 9 CFR 304.1.
(b) Information to be furnished is as required by 9 CFR 304.2(a), (b), and (c)(1). Conditions for receiving inspection, including having written Sanitation SOPs, HACCP plans and written recall procedures, are as required by 9 CFR 304.3.
(c) Official numbers; inauguration of inspection; withdrawal of inspection; reports of violation.
The requirements for assignment of official numbers, inauguration of inspection, withdrawal of inspection, and reports of violations at fish processing establishments are as required by part 305 of this chapter for meat establishments.
(d) Assignment and authorities of program employees.
The requirements concerning the assignment and authorities of Program employees at fish processing establishments are as required by parts 306 and 307 of this chapter with respect to Program employees at meat establishments.
§ 532.3
Exemption of retail operations.
(a) The exemption in 9 CFR 303.1(d) for operations of types traditionally and usually conducted at retail stores and restaurants applies with respect to fish products as it does with respect to products of other amenable species under the FMIA.
(b) The exemption also applies to the slaughtering of fish conducted at and by the operator of a retail store or restaurant, with respect to live fish purchased by a consumer at the retail store or restaurant, in accordance with the consumer's instructions.
(c) A retail quantity of fish or fish products sold to a household consumer is a normal retail quantity if it does not exceed 75 pounds and the quantity of fish or fish product sold by a retail supplier to a non-household consumer is a normal retail quantity if it does not exceed 150 pounds in the aggregate.
§ 532.4
Inspection at official establishments; relation to other authorities.
(a) Requirements within the scope of the Act with respect to premises, facilities, and operations of any official establishment that are in addition to or different than those made under this subchapter may not be imposed by any State or local jurisdiction except that the State or local jurisdiction may impose recordkeeping and other requirements within the scope of § 550.1 of this subchapter, if consistent with those requirements, with respect to the establishment.
(b) Labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements in addition to or different than those made under this subchapter, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and Fair Packaging and Labeling Act may not be imposed by any State or local jurisdiction with respect to any fish or fish products processed at any official establishment in accordance with the requirements under this subchapter and those Acts.
§ 532.5
Exemption from definition of fish product of certain human food products containing fish.
The following articles contain fish ingredients only in a relatively small proportion or historically have not been considered by consumers to be
products of the fish food products industry. Therefore, the articles are exempted from the definition of “fish product” and the requirements of the Act and the regulations that apply to fish products, if they comply with the conditions specified in this section.
(a) Any human food product if:
(1) It contains less than 3 percent raw or 2 percent cooked fish;
(2) The fish ingredients used in the product were prepared under Federal inspection or were inspected under a foreign inspection system approved under § 557.2 of this subchapter and imported in compliance with the Act and the regulations;
(3) The immediate container of the product bears a label which shows the name of the product in accordance with this section; and
(4) The product is not represented as a fish product. The percentage of cooked fish ingredients must be computed on the basis of the moist, deboned, cooked fish in the ready-to-serve product when prepared according to the serving directions on the consumer package.
(b) A product exempted under this section will be deemed to be represented as a fish product if the term “fish” or a term representing a fish species that is covered by the definition of “fish” in part 531 of this subchapter is used in the product name of the product without appropriate qualification.
(c) A product exempted under this section is subject to the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Pt. 533

# PART 533—SEPARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT; FACILITIES FOR INSPECTION; FACILITIES FOR PROGRAM EMPLOYEES; OTHER REQUIRED FACILITIES
Sec.
533.1
Separation of establishments.
533.2
[Reserved]
533.3
Facilities for Program employees.
533.4
Other facilities and conditions to be provided.
533.5
Schedule of operations.
533.6
Overtime and holiday inspection service.
533.7
Basis of billing for overtime and holiday services.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 533.1
Separation of establishments.
Each official establishment shall be separate and distinct from any unofficial establishment and from any other official establishment, except an establishment preparing products under the FMIA, the PPIA, or the EPIA, or under State fish inspection requirements and authorities that are deemed to be at least equal to those provided under the FMIA. Further, doorways, or other openings, may be permitted between establishments at the discretion of the Administrator and under such conditions as he may prescribe. An official establishment that is not separate and distinct from another official or unofficial establishment must ensure that no sanitary hazards are created by the lack of separation.
§ 533.2
[Reserved]
§ 533.3
Facilities for Program employees.
Office space, including necessary furnishings, light, heat, and janitor service, must be provided by official establishments, rent free, for the exclusive use for official purposes of the inspector and other Program employees assigned thereto. The space set aside for this purpose shall meet with approval of the District Manager or the frontline supervisor and must be conveniently located, properly ventilated, and provided with lockers suitable for the protection and storage of Program supplies and with facilities suitable for Program employees to change clothing if such facilities are deemed necessary by the frontline supervisor. At the discretion of the Administrator, small establishments requiring the services of less than one full-time inspector need not furnish facilities for Program employees as prescribed in this section, where adequate facilities exist in a nearby convenient location. Laundry service for inspectors' outer work clothing must be provided by each establishment.
§ 533.4
Other facilities and conditions to be provided.
When required by the District Manager or the frontline supervisor, each official establishment must provide the following facilities and conditions, and such others as may be found to be essential to efficient conduct of inspection and maintenance of sanitary conditions:
(a) Sufficient light to be adequate for the proper conduct of inspection;
(b) Tables, benches, and other equipment on which inspection is to be performed, of such design, material, and construction as to enable Program employees to conduct their inspection in a ready, efficient and clean manner;
(c) Receptacles for holding and handling diseased carcasses and parts, so constructed as to be readily cleaned and to be marked in a conspicuous manner with the phrase “U.S. Condemned” in letters not less than 2 inches high, and, when required by the frontline supervisor, to be equipped in a way that allows the receptacles to be locked or sealed;
(d) Adequate arrangements, including liquid soap and cleansers, for cleansing and disinfecting hands, for sterilizing all implements used in handling diseased carcasses, for cleaning and sanitizing floors, and such other articles and places as may be contaminated by diseased carcasses or otherwise;
(e) Adequate facilities, including denaturing materials, for the proper disposal of condemned articles in accordance with the regulations in this subchapter;
(f) Docks and receiving rooms, to be designated by the operator of the official establishment, with the frontline supervisor, for the receipt and inspection of fish, fish products, or other products.
(g) Suitable lockers in which brands bearing the official inspection legend and other official devices (excluding labels) can be stored. Official certificates shall be kept when not in use in suitable file cabinets. All such lockers and file cabinets shall be equipped for sealing or locking with locks or seals to be supplied by the Department. The keys of such locks shall not leave the custody of Program employees.
§ 533.5
Schedule of operations.
The requirements governing the schedule of operations for fish processing establishments are as required by 9 CFR 307.4 for meat establishments.
§ 533.6
Overtime and holiday inspection service.
The requirements governing overtime and holiday inspection service in 9 CFR 307.5 apply to fish processing establishments.
§ 533.7
Basis of billing for overtime and holiday services.
The requirements for billing and overtime and holiday inspection services are as required by 9 CFR 307.6.
Pt. 534

# PART 534—PRE-HARVEST STANDARDS AND TRANSPORTATION TO PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT
Sec.
534.1
General.
534.2
Water quality for food fish.
534.3
Standards for use of drugs in the raising of fish.
534.4
Transportation to processing plant.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 534.1
General.
Fish that are harvested for use as human food must have grown and lived under conditions that will not render the fish or their products unsound, unwholesome, unhealthful, or otherwise unfit for human food.
§ 534.2
Water quality for food fish.
Farmers of fish should monitor the water in which the fish are raised for the presence of suspended solids, organic matter, nutrients, heavy metals, pesticides, fertilizers, and industrial chemicals that may contaminate fish. FSIS will collect samples of feed, fish, and water from producers, at intervals to be determined by the Administrator, for the purpose of verifying that fish are being raised under conditions that will yield safe, wholesome products.
§ 534.3
Standards for use of drugs in the raising of fish.
New animal drugs that are the subject of an approved new animal drug application (NADA) or abbreviated new animal drug application (ANADA) under section 512 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) (21 U.S.C. 360b), or a conditional approval under section 571 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 360ccc), or an investigational exemption under section 512(j) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 360b(j)) may be used in the raising of fish. New animal drugs approved under section 512 of the Act may be used in an extra-label manner if such use complies with section 512(a)(4) of the Act and FDA regulations found at 21 CFR part 530.
§ 534.4
Transportation to processing plant.
A vehicle used to transport fish from a producer's premises to a processing establishment must be equipped with vats or other containers for holding the fish. The vats or other containers must be maintained in a sanitary condition. Sufficient water and sufficient oxygen must be provided to the vats that hold the fish to ensure that fish delivered to the processing establishment will not be adulterated. Any fish that are dead, dying, diseased, or contaminated with substances that may adulterate fish products are subject to condemnation at the official fish processing establishments.
Pt. 537

# PART 537—SANITATION REQUIREMENTS AND HAZARD ANALYSIS AND CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS SYSTEMS; NOTIFICATION REGARDING ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED PRODUCTS
Sec.
537.1
Basic requirements.
537.2
Hazard analysis and HACCP plan.
537.3
Notification.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 537.1
Basic requirements.
(a)(1) Any official establishment that prepares or processes fish or fish products for human food must comply with the requirements contained in 9 CFR parts 416, Sanitation and 417, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(2) For the purposes of 9 CFR part 416, Sanitation; 9 CFR part 417, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems; and 9 CFR part 500, Rules of Practice, an “official establishment” or “establishment” includes a plant that prepares or processes fish or fish products.
§ 537.2
Hazard analysis and HACCP plan.
(a) A fish establishment's hazard analysis shall take into account the food safety hazards that can occur before, during, and after harvest.
(b) The failure of an establishment to develop and implement a hazard analysis and a HACCP plan that comply with this part or to operate in accordance with the requirements of 9 CFR Chapter III, Subchapter E, will render the products produced under these conditions adulterated.
§ 537.3
Notification.
Each official establishment must promptly notify the local FSIS District Office within 24 hours of learning or determining that an adulterated or misbranded fish product received by or originating from the official establishment has entered commerce, in accordance with the requirements of 9 CFR part 418.
Pt. 539

# PART 539—MANDATORY DISPOSITIONS; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS RESPECTING PHYSICAL, CHEMICAL, OR BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS
Sec.
539.1
Disposal of diseased or otherwise adulterated fish carcasses and parts or fish products.
539.2
Physical, chemical, or biological contaminants.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 539.1
Disposal of diseased or otherwise adulterated fish carcasses and parts or fish products.
(a)(1) Carcasses or parts of fish affected by abscesses or lesions, zoonotic and non-zoonotic parasites such as cestodes, or such parasites as digenean trematodes, metacercaria (
Bolbophorus
spp.), yellow grubs (
Clinostomum
spp.), or white grubs (Hysteromorpha spp.) are subject to condemnation unless properly disposed of by the establishment to prevent their use as human food.
(2) Fish affected by Heterophyid intestinal flukes or
Dictophymatidae
nematodes are subject to condemnation unless properly disposed of by the establishment.
(b) Fish affected by diseases, including columnaris (infection by Flavobacterium columnare/
Flexibacter columnaris
) and enteric septicemia of fish (ESC), are subject to condemnation unless properly disposed of by the establishment to prevent their use as human food.
(c) Fish carcasses or parts or fish products that are found to be in a state of spoilage or decomposition are subject to condemnation unless properly disposed of by the establishment to prevent their use as human food.
(d) Fish with unusual gross deformities caused by disease or chemical contamination may not be used for human food.
§ 539.2
Physical, chemical, or biological contaminants.
(a) Fish and fish products that are contaminated with physical matter are subject to official retention and condemnation.
(b) Antibiotic or other drug residues in fish tissues must be within applicable tolerances in 21 CFR part 556 or within an applicable import tolerance established under 21 U.S.C. 360b(a)(6).
(c) Pesticide residues in fish tissues must be within applicable tolerances in 40 CFR part 180.
(d) Fish or fish products containing violative concentrations of drugs or other chemicals are subject to condemnation.
Pt. 540

# PART 540—HANDLING AND DISPOSAL OF CONDEMNED AND OTHER INEDIBLE MATERIALS
Sec.
540.1
Dead fish.
540.2
Specimens for educational, research, and other nonfood purposes; permits.
540.3
Handling and disposal of condemned or other inedible materials.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 540.1
Dead fish.
(a) With the exception of dead fish that have died en route to an official establishment that have been received with live fish at the official establishment, and that are subject to sorting and disposal at the official establishment, no fish or part of the carcass of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter may be brought onto the premises of an official establishment without advance permission from the FSIS frontline supervisor.
(b) The official establishment shall maintain physical separation between slaughtered fish and the edible parts or products of slaughtered fish and any fish or parts of fish that have died otherwise than by slaughter. Fish or any parts of fish that have died otherwise than by slaughter shall be excluded from any room or compartment in which edible product is prepared, handled, or stored.
§ 540.2
Specimens for educational, research, and other nonfood purposes; permits.
The requirements of 9 CFR 314.9 apply to the handling and release of specimens of condemned or other inedible fish materials.
§ 540.3
Handling and disposal of condemned or other inedible materials.
Condemned or other inedible fish and fish parts shall be separated from edible fish. If not disposed of on the premises of the establishment, the condemned and inedible fish parts shall be conveyed from the official establishment for disposition at a rendering plant, an animal feed manufacturing
establishment, or at another establishment for other non-food use. If not decharacterized by use of approved denaturants or colorings, the inedible materials shall be enclosed in containers that are conspicuously marked to indicate that the contents are condemned or otherwise inedible. The materials may be shipped under company or official seal to a rendering facility or for other inedible processing.
Pt. 541

# PART 541—MARKS, MARKING AND LABELING OF PRODUCTS AND CONTAINERS
Sec.
541.1
General.
541.2
Official marks and devices to identify inspected and passed fish and fish products.
541.3
Official seals for transportation of products.
541.4
Official export inspection marks, devices, and certificates.
541.5
Official detention marks and devices.
541.7
Labels required; supervision of a Program employee.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 541.1
General.
The marks, devices, and certificates prescribed or referenced in this part are official marks, devices, and certificates for the purposes of the Act respecting fish and fish products. The marks, devices, and certificates shall be used only in accordance with the regulations in this part.
§ 541.2
Official marks and devices to identify inspected and passed fish and fish products.
(a)(1) The official inspection legend required by this part must be shown on all labels for inspected and passed fish and fish products and must be in the following form prescribed in 9 CFR 312.2(b)(1) for inspected and passed products of cattle, sheep, swine, and goats, or in another form to be prescribed by the Administrator, except that it need not be of the size illustrated, if it is of a sufficient size and color to be conspicuously displayed, and readily legible, and in the same proportions of letter size and boldness are maintained as illustrated:
ER02DE15.000
(2) The official inspection legend shall contain the words “U.S. Inspected and Passed” or an abbreviation of those words approved by the Administrator.
(b) This official mark must be applied by mechanical means and must not be applied by a hand stamp.
(c)(1) The official inspection legend, or the approved abbreviation of the legend, must be printed on consumer packages and other immediate containers of inspected and passed fish products or on labels to be securely affixed to the containers of the products and may be printed or stenciled on the containers but must not be applied by rubber stamping.
(2) The official inspection legend may also be used for the purposes of marking shipping containers, band labels, and other articles with the approval of the Administrator.
(d) Whole gutted fish carcasses that have been inspected and passed in an official establishment and are intended for sale as whole gutted fish must be marked with the official inspection legend or properly packaged in an immediate container labeled with the official inspection legend and all other required labeling features, that will ensure that the fish carcasses are identified as “Inspected and Passed” and will not become misbranded while in commerce. The official inspection legend used for this purpose must be in the form illustrated below or in another form determined by the Administrator:
ER02DE15.001
§ 541.3
Official seals for transportation of products.
The official mark for use in sealing railroad cars, cargo containers, or other means of conveyance as prescribed in part 555 of this subchapter must be the inscription and serial number shown in 9 CFR 312.5 or another official mark approved by the Administrator. Any seal approved by the Administrator for applying the official mark is an official device for the purposes of the Act. The seal must be attached to the means of conveyance only by a Program employee, who shall also affix a “Warning Tag” (Form MP-408-3 or similar official form).
§ 541.4
Official export inspection marks, devices, and certificates.
(a) The official export inspection mark for fish required by part 552 of this subchapter must be in the same form as that specified in 9 CFR 312.8(a) or otherwise as prescribed by the Administrator.
(b) The official export certificate for fish and fish products required by part 552 must be in the same form as that prescribed for meat and meat food products in 9 CFR 312.8(b) or otherwise as prescribed by the Administrator.
§ 541.5
Official detention marks and devices.
The official mark for shipments of articles and fish detained under this subchapter is the designation “U.S. Detained,” and the official device for applying the mark is the official “U.S. Detained” tag (FSIS Form 8400-2) as prescribed in 9 CFR 329.2 or otherwise by the Administrator.
§ 541.7
Labels required; supervision of a Program employee.
(a)
General labeling requirements.
The requirements in part 317, subpart A, of this chapter, governing labels and labeling, safe-handling labeling, abbreviations of official marks, the use of approved labels, the labeling of products for foreign commerce, prohibited practices, the reuse of official inspection marks, filling of containers, relabeling of products, the storage and distribution of labels, and the requirements for packaging materials, apply to fish and fish products.
(b) A country of origin statement on the label of any fish “covered commodity” as defined in 7 CFR part 60, subpart A, that is sold by a “retailer,” as defined in 7 CFR 60.124, must comply with the requirements of 7 CFR 60.200 and 60.300.
(c) The safe handling instructions required on labels of fish and fish products specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall replace statements that include the terms “meat” and “poultry” with the following:
(1) In the rationale statement, “This product was prepared from inspected
and passed fish. Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled and cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions.” This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements.
(2) In the labeling statements, “Keep raw fish separate from other foods. Wash working surfaces (including cutting boards), utensils, and hands after touching raw fish. (A graphic illustration of soapy hands under a faucet shall be displayed next to statement.)”
(d)(1) Labels and labeling of fish in the order Siluriformes and the products of those fish must bear the appropriate common or usual names of the fish. For example, among fish in the family Pangasiidae, the labels and labeling for fish of the species
Pangasius bocourti
must bear the term “basa”; for the species
Pangasius hypophthalmus
or
Pangasionodon hypophthalmus,
“swai,” “tra,” or “sutchi.”
(2) The labels and labeling only of fish and fish products within the family Icataluridae may bear the term “catfish.”
(e) The requirements in part 441 of this chapter, governing water retained from processing in raw meat and poultry, apply to retained water in fish. The requirements in part 442 of this chapter, governing quantity of contents labeling, the testing of scales, and the handling of product that is found to be out of compliance with net weight requirements, apply to fish and fish products.
(1) Packages of frozen or fresh-frozen fish carcasses or parts must be labeled to reflect 100-percent net weight after thawing. The de-glazed net weight must average 100 percent of the stated net weight of the frozen product when sampled and weighed according to the method prescribed in National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Handbook 133 Chapter 2, Section 2.6.
1
1
U.S. Department of Commerce. NIST Handbook 133: Checking the Net Contents of Packaged Goods, 2013. Washington, DC.
(2) [Reserved]
(f)
Nutrition labeling.
The requirements for nutrition labeling of meat and meat food products in part 317, subpart B, of this chapter, also apply to the labeling of fish and fish food products.
(g)
Label approval.
The requirements for the label approval of meat and meat food products in part 412 of this chapter, also apply to the labeling of fish and fish products.
Pt. 544

# PART 544—FOOD INGREDIENTS PERMITTED

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.
§ 544.1
Use of food ingredients.
(a) No fish product may bear or contain any food ingredient that would render it adulterated or misbranded or that is not approved in part 424 of this chapter, or in this part or elsewhere in this subchapter, or by the Administrator in specific cases.
(b) [Reserved]
[80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015]
Pt. 548

# PART 548—PREPARATION OF PRODUCTS
Sec.
548.1
Preparation of fish products.
548.2
Requirements concerning ingredients and other articles used in the preparation of fish products.
548.3
Samples of products, water, dyes, chemicals, etc. to be taken for examination.
548.4
[Reserved]
548.5
Ready-to-eat fish products.
548.6
Canning and canned products.
548.7
Use of new animal drugs.
548.8
Polluted water contamination at establishment.
548.9
Accreditation of non-Federal chemistry laboratories.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1633; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 548.1
Preparation of fish products.
(a) All processes used in preparing any fish product in official establishments shall be subject to inspection by
Program employees unless such preparation is conducted as or consists of operations that are exempted from inspection under 9 CFR 303.1. No fixtures or appliances, such as tables, trucks, trays, tanks, vats, machines, implements, cans, or containers of any kind, shall be used unless they are of such materials and construction as will not contaminate or otherwise adulterate the product and are clean and sanitary. All steps in the preparation of edible products shall be conducted carefully and with strict cleanliness in rooms or compartments separate from those used for inedible products.
(b) It shall be the responsibility of the operator of every official establishment to comply with the Act and the regulations in this subchapter. To carry out this responsibility effectively, the operator of the establishment shall institute appropriate measures to ensure the maintenance of the establishment and the preparation, marking, labeling, packaging and other handling of its products strictly in accordance with the sanitary and other requirements of this subchapter.
§ 548.2
Requirements concerning ingredients and other articles used in the preparation of fish products.
All ingredients and other articles used in the preparation of any fish product must be clean, sound, healthful, wholesome, and otherwise such as will not result in the product's being adulterated.
§ 548.3
Samples of products, water, dyes, chemicals, etc. to be taken for examination.
Samples of products, water, dyes, chemicals, preservatives, spices, or other articles in any official establishment shall be taken, without cost to the Program, for examination, as often as may be deemed necessary for the efficient conduct of the inspection.
§ 548.4
[Reserved]
§ 548.5
Ready-to-eat fish products.
Ready-to-eat fish products are subject to the requirements in part 430 of this chapter.
§ 548.6
Canning and canned products.
The requirements for canning and canned products in 9 CFR part 431 apply to fish products that are canned.
[80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 25325, May 31, 2018]
§ 548.7
Use of new animal drugs.
Edible tissues of fish with residues exceeding tolerance levels specified in 21 CFR part 556 or established in an import tolerance under 21 U.S.C. 360b(a)(6) are adulterated within the meaning of section 402(a)(2)(C)(ii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act because they bear or contain a new animal drug that is unsafe within the meaning of section 512 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
§ 548.8
Polluted water contamination at establishment.
In the event that there is polluted water (including but not limited to flood water) in an official establishment, all products and ingredients for use in the preparation of the products that have been rendered adulterated by the water must be condemned. After the polluted water has receded from the establishment, the establishment must follow the cleaning and sanitizing procedures in § 318.4 of this chapter.
§ 548.9
Accreditation of non-Federal chemistry laboratories.
A non-Federal analytical laboratory that has met the requirements for accreditation specified in 9 CFR part 439 and hence, at an establishment's discretion, may be used in lieu of an FSIS laboratory for analyzing official regulatory samples. Payment for the analysis of regulatory samples is to be made by the establishment using the accredited laboratory.
PART 549 [RESERVED]
Pt. 550

# PART 550—RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT
Sec.
550.1
Records required to be kept.
550.2
Place of maintenance of records.
550.3
Record retention period.
550.4
Access to and inspection of records, facilities and inventory; copying and sampling.
550.5
Registration.
550.6
Information and reports required from official establishment operators.
550.7
Reports by consignees of allegedly adulterated or misbranded products; sale or transportation as violations.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 550.1
Records required to be kept.
The requirements in 9 CFR 320.1 for records to be kept apply to persons that engage in businesses relating to fish and fish products as they do to persons that engage in businesses relating to the carcasses, parts, or products of other species amenable to the FMIA.
§ 550.2
Place of maintenance of records.
The requirements in 9 CFR 320.2 for the place where records are to be maintained apply in the keeping of records under this part.
§ 550.3
Record retention period.
The record retention requirements in 9 CFR 320.3 apply to records required to be kept under this part.
§ 550.4
Access to and inspection of records, facilities and inventory; copying and sampling.
The provisions of 9 CFR 320.4 apply to businesses dealing in fish and fish products.
§ 550.5
Registration.
The registration requirements in 9 CFR 320.5 apply to persons engaging in businesses, in or for commerce, relating to fish and fish products as they do to persons engaging in businesses relating to the carcasses, parts, and products, or any livestock, of other animal species that are amenable to the FMIA.
§ 550.6
Information and reports required from official establishment operators.
The information and reporting requirements in 9 CFR 320.6 for operators of official establishments apply with respect to fish and fish products as they do with respect to other species amenable to the FMIA.
§ 550.7
Reports by consignees of allegedly adulterated or misbranded products; sale or transportation as violations.
The requirements in 9 CFR 320.7 for reports by consignees of allegedly adulterated or misbranded products apply with respect to fish and fish products as they do with respect to products of other species amenable to the Act.
Pt. 552

# PART 552—EXPORTS

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.
§ 552.1
Affixing stamps and marking products for export; issuance of export certificates; clearance of vessels and transportation.
(a) The manner of affixing stamps and marking products for export is that prescribed in § 322.1(a) of this chapter.
(b) The requirements for the issuance of export certificates are as prescribed in § 322.2 of this chapter.
(c) The requirements for clearing vessels and other transportation vehicles are set out in § 322.4 of this chapter.
[80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015]
Pt. 555

# PART 555—TRANSPORTATION OF FISH PRODUCTS IN COMMERCE
Sec.
555.1
Transportation of fish products.
555.2
Fish product transported within the United States as part of export movement.
555.3
Unmarked, inspected fish product transported under official seal between official establishments for further processing; certificate.
555.4
Handling of fish products that may have become adulterated.
555.5
Transportation of inedible fish product in commerce.
555.6
Certificates.
555.7
Official seals; forms, use, and breaking.
555.8
Loading or unloading of fish products in sealed transport conveyances.
555.9
Diverting of shipments.
555.10
Provisions inapplicable to specimens for laboratory examination, etc., or to naturally inedible articles.
555.11
Transportation and other transactions concerning dead, dying, or diseased fish, and fish or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter.
555.12
Means of conveyance in which dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish must be transported.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 555.1
Transportation of fish products.
(a) No person may sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation, or receive for transportation, in commerce, any fish or fish product that is capable of being used as human food and is adulterated or fails to bear an official inspection legend or is otherwise misbranded at the time of such sale, transportation, offer or receipt, except otherwise provided in this paragraph or in part 557 of this subchapter.
(b) No person, engaged in the business of buying, selling, freezing, storing, or transporting, in or for commerce, fish products capable of use as human food, or importing such articles, shall transport, offer for transportation, or receive for transportation, in commerce or in any State designated under § 560.3 of this subchapter, any fish product which is capable of use as human food and is not wrapped, packaged, or otherwise enclosed to prevent adulteration by airborne contaminants, unless the railroad car, truck, or other means of conveyance in which the product is contained or transported is completely enclosed with tight fitting doors or other covers for all openings. In all cases, the means of conveyance shall be reasonably free of foreign matter (such as dust, dirt, rust, or other articles or residues), and free of chemical residues, so that product placed therein will not become adulterated.
(c) Any cleaning compound, lye, soda solution, or other chemical used in cleaning the means of conveyance must be thoroughly removed from the means of conveyance prior to its use. Such means of conveyance onto which product is loaded, being loaded, or intended to be loaded, shall be subject to inspection by an inspector at any official establishment.
(d) The decision whether or not to inspect a means of conveyance in a specific case, and the type and extent of such inspection shall be at the Agency's discretion and shall be adequate to determine if fish product in such conveyance is, or when moved could become, adulterated.
(e) Circumstances of transport that can be reasonably anticipated shall be considered in making said determination. These include, but are not limited to, weather conditions, duration and distance of trip, nature of product covering, and effect of restowage at stops en route. Any means of conveyance found upon such inspection to be in such condition that fish product placed therein could become adulterated shall not be used until such condition which could cause adulteration is corrected.
Fish product placed in any means of conveyance that is found by the inspector to be in such condition that the fish product may have become adulterated shall be removed from the means of conveyance and handled in accordance with part 539 or § 540.3 of this subchapter.
§ 555.2
Fish product transported within the United States as part of export movement.
When any shipment of any fish product is offered to any carrier for transportation within the United States as a part of an export movement, the same certificate shall be required as if the shipment were destined to a point within the United States.
§ 555.3
Unmarked, inspected fish product transported under official seal between official establishments for further processing; certificate.
The requirements governing transportation of fish product that has been inspected and passed, but not so marked, from one official establishment to another official establishment are the same as those in § 325.5 of this chapter that apply to unmarked inspected meat products.
§ 555.4
Handling of fish products that may have become adulterated.
The provisions of § 325.10 of this chapter regarding the handling of products that may have become adulterated or
misbranded apply to fish and fish products.
§ 555.5
Transportation of inedible fish product in commerce.
The provisions in § 325.11(e) of this chapter regarding the transportation of inedible livestock products apply to the transportation of inedible fish parts or products.
§ 555.6
Certificates.
The provisions in § 325.14 of this chapter regarding the filing of original certificates of unmarked inspected meat products delivered to carriers applies with respect to fish and fish products.
§ 555.7
Official seals; forms, use, and breaking.
The official seals required by this part are those prescribed in § 541.3 and § 312.5 of this chapter.
§ 555.8
Loading or unloading of fish products in sealed transport conveyances.
The requirements in 9 CFR 325.17 governing the unloading of any meat or meat food product from an officially sealed railroad car, truck, or other means of conveyance containing any unmarked product or loading any means of conveyance after the product leaves an official establishment are applicable to fish and fish products.
§ 555.9
Diverting of shipments.
(a) Shipments of inspected and passed fish products that bear the inspection legend may be diverted from the original destination without a reinspection of the articles if the waybills, transfer bills, running slips, conductor's card, or other papers accompanying the shipments are marked, stamped, or have attached thereto signed statements in accordance with § 325.15 of this chapter.
(b) In case of a wreck or similar extraordinary emergency, the Department seals on a railroad car or other means of conveyance containing any inspected and passed product may be broken by the carrier, and if necessary, the articles may be reloaded into another means of conveyance, or the shipment may be diverted from the original destination, without another shipper's certificate; but in all such cases the carrier must immediately report the facts by telephone or telegraph to the District Manager in the area in which the emergency occurs. The report must include the following information:
(1) Nature of the emergency.
(2) Place where seals were broken.
(3) Original points of shipment and destination.
(4) Number and initial of the original car or truck.
(5) Number and initials of the car or truck into which the articles are reloaded.
(6) New destination of the shipment.
(7) Kind and amount of articles.
§ 555.10
Provisions inapplicable to specimens for laboratory examination, etc., or to naturally inedible articles.
The provisions of this part do not apply:
(a) To specimens of product sent to or by the Department of Agriculture or divisions thereof in Washington, DC, or elsewhere, for laboratory examination, exhibition purposes, or other official use;
(b) To material released for educational, research, and other nonfood purposes, as prescribed in § 540.2 of this subchapter;
(c) To tissues for use in preparing pharmaceutical, organotherapeutic, or technical products and not used for human food, as described in § 540.2 of this subchapter;
(d) To material or specimens of product for laboratory examination, research, or other nonhuman food purposes, when authorized by the Administrator, and under conditions prescribed by him in specific cases; and
(e) To articles that are naturally inedible by humans.
§ 555.11
Transportation and other transactions concerning dead, dying, or diseased fish, and fish or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter.
No person engaged in the business of buying, selling, or transporting in commerce, or importing any dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter shall:
(a) Sell, transport, offer for sale or transportation, or receive for transportation, in commerce, any dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter, unless the fish and parts are consigned and delivered, without avoidable delay, to establishments of animal food manufacturers, renderers, or collection stations that are registered as required by part 550 of this subchapter, or to official establishments that operate under Federal inspection, or to establishments that operate under a State or Territorial inspection system approved by FSIS as one that imposes requirements at least equal to the Federal requirements for purposes of section 301(c) of the Act;
(b) Buy in commerce or import any dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter, unless he is an animal food manufacturer or renderer and is registered as required by part 550 of this subchapter, or is the operator of an establishment inspected as required by paragraph (a) of this section and such fish or parts of fish are to be delivered to establishments eligible to receive them under paragraph (a) of this section;
(c) Unload en route to any establishment eligible to receive them under paragraph (a) of this section, any dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter, which are transported in commerce or imported by any such person:
Provided,
That any such dead, dying, or diseased fish, or parts of fish may be unloaded from a means of conveyance en route where necessary in case of a wreck or otherwise extraordinary emergency, and may be reloaded into another means of conveyance; but in all such cases, the carrier must immediately report the facts by telephone or other electrical or electronic means to the Office of Investigation, Enforcement and Audit, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
(d) Load into any means of conveyance containing any dead, dying, or diseased fish, or parts of fish that died otherwise than by slaughter, while in the course of importation or other transportation in commerce any fish or parts of fish not within the foregoing description or any other products or other commodities.
§ 555.12
Means of conveyance in which dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish must be transported.
All vehicles and other means of conveyance used by persons subject to § 555.11 for transporting in commerce or importing, any dead, dying, or diseased fish or parts of fish that died otherwise by slaughter must be leak proof and so constructed and equipped as to permit thorough cleaning and sanitizing. The means of conveyance used in conveying the fish or parts of fish must be cleaned and disinfected before being used in the transportation of any product intended for use as human food. The cleaning procedure must include the complete removal from the means of conveyance of any fluid, parts, or product of dead, dying, or diseased fish and the thorough application of a disinfectant approved by the Administrator to the interior surfaces of the cargo space.
Pt. 557

# PART 557—IMPORTATION
Sec.
557.1
Definitions; application of provisions.
557.2
Eligibility of foreign countries for importation of fish and fish products into the United States.
557.3
No fish or fish product to be imported without compliance with applicable regulations.
557.4
Imported fish and fish products; foreign certificates required.
557.5
Importer to make application for inspection of fish and fish products for entry.
557.6
Fish and fish products for importation; program inspection, time and place; application for approval of facilities as official import inspection establishment; refusal or withdrawal of approval; official numbers.
557.7
Products for importation; movement prior to inspection; handling; bond; assistance.
557.8
Import fish and fish products; equipment and means of conveyance used in handling to be maintained in sanitary condition.
557.9
[Reserved]
557.10
Samples; inspection of consignments; refusal of entry; marking.
557.11
Receipts to importers for import fish and fish products samples.
557.12
Foreign canned or packaged fish and fish products bearing trade labels; sampling and inspection.
557.13
Foreign fish and fish products offered for importation; reporting of findings to Customs.
557.14
Marking of fish products and labeling of immediate containers thereof for importation.
557.15
Outside containers of foreign products; marking and labeling; application of official inspection legend.
557.16
Small importations for importer's own consumption; requirements.
557.17
Returned U.S. inspected and marked fish and fish products.
557.18
Fish and fish products offered for entry and entered to be handled and transported as domestic; exception.
557.19
Specimens for laboratory examination and similar purposes.
557.20-557.23
[Reserved]
557.24
Appeals; how made.
557.25
Disposition procedures for fish and fish product condemned or ordered destroyed under import inspection.
557.26
Official import inspection marks and devices.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 557.1
Definitions; application of provisions.
(a) When used in this part, the following terms shall be construed to mean:
(1)
Import.
To bring within the territorial limits of the United States whether that arrival is accomplished by land, air, or water.
(2)
Offer for entry.
Presentation of the imported product by the importer to the Program for reinspection.
(3)
Entry.
The point at which imported product offered for entry receives reinspection and is marked with the official mark of inspection in accordance with § 557.26 of this subchapter.
(b) The provisions of this part shall apply to fish and fish products that are capable of use as human food. Compliance with the conditions for importation of products under this part does not excuse the need for compliance with applicable requirements under other laws, including the provisions in part 94 of chapter I of this title.
§ 557.2
Eligibility of foreign countries for importation of fish and fish products into the United States.
(a) The requirements in 9 CFR 327.2(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(C)-(I), (a)(2)(iii)-(iv), and (a)(3), for determining the acceptability of foreign meat inspection systems for the importation of meat and meat food products into the United States, apply in determining the acceptability of foreign fish inspection systems for the importation of fish and fish products into the United States. In determining the acceptability of these systems, the Agency will evaluate the manner in which they take into account the conditions under which fish are raised and transported to a processing establishment.
(b) The countries eligible to export specific process categories of fish and fish products are listed at
http://www.fsis.usda.gov/importlibrary.
Such products must be covered by foreign inspection certificates of the country of origin as required by § 557.4. Products from such countries are eligible under the regulations in this subchapter for entry into the United States after inspection and marking as required by the applicable provisions of this part..
[80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 59681, 59685, 59689, Nov. 5, 2019; 84 FR 65269, Nov. 27, 2019]
§ 557.3
No fish or fish product to be imported without compliance with applicable regulations.
No fish or fish product offered for importation from any foreign country shall be admitted into the United States if it is adulterated or misbranded or does not comply with all the requirements of this subchapter that would apply to it if it were a domestic product.
§ 557.4
Imported fish and fish products; foreign certificates required.
(a) Except as provided in § 557.16, each consignment containing any fish or fish products consigned to the United States from a foreign country must be accompanied by an electronic foreign inspection certificate or a paper foreign inspection certificate for fish and fish products. The certificate must have been issued by an official of the
foreign government agency responsible for the inspection and certification.
(b) An official of the foreign government must certify that any fish or fish product described on any official certificate was produced in accordance with the regulatory requirements in § 557.2.
(c) The electronic foreign inspection certification must be in English, be transmitted directly to FSIS before the product's arrival at the official import inspection establishment, and be available to import inspection personnel.
(d) The paper foreign inspection certificate must accompany each consignment; be submitted to import inspection personnel at the official import inspection establishment; be in English; bear the official seal of the foreign government responsible for the inspection of the product, and the name, title, and signature of the official authorized to issue inspection certificates for products imported to the United States.
(e) The electronic foreign inspection certification and paper foreign inspection certificate must contain:
(1) The date;
(2) The foreign country of export and the producing foreign establishment number;
(3) The species used to produce the product and the source country and foreign establishment number, if the source materials originate from a country other than the exporting country;
(4) The product's description, including the process category, the product category, and the product group;
(5) The name and address of the importer or consignee;
(6) The name and address of the exporter or consignor;
(7) The number of units (pieces or containers) and the shipping or identification;
(8) The net weight of each lot;
(9) Any additional information the Administrator requests to determine whether the product is eligible to be imported into the United States.
§ 557.5
Importer to make application for inspection of fish and fish products for entry.
(a) Applicants must submit an import inspection application, to apply for the inspection of any product offered for entry. Applicants may apply for inspection using a paper or electronic application form.
(b) Import inspection applications for each consignment must be submitted, electronically or on paper, to FSIS in advance of the shipment's arrival at the official import establishment where the product will be reinspected, but no later than when the entry is filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(c) The provisions of this section do not apply to products that are exempted from inspection by §§ 557.16 and 557.17.
§ 557.6
Fish and fish products for importation; program inspection, time and place; application for approval of facilities as official import inspection establishment; refusal or withdrawal of approval; official numbers.
(a)(1) Except as provided in §§ 557.16 and 557.17, all fish and fish products offered for entry from any foreign country shall be reinspected by a Program inspector before they shall be allowed entry into the United States.
(2) Every lot of product shall routinely be given visual inspection by a Program import inspector for appearance and condition, and checked for certification and label compliance.
(3) The electronic inspection system will be consulted for reinspection instructions. The electronic inspection system will assign reinspection levels and procedures based on established sampling plans and established product and plant history.
(4) When the inspector deems it necessary, the inspector may sample and inspect lots not designated by the electronic system.
(b) Fish and fish products required by this part to be inspected must be inspected only at an official establishment or at an official import inspection establishment approved by the Administrator as provided in this section.
(c) Owners or operators of establishments, other than official establishments, who want to have import inspections made at their establishments, shall apply to the Administrator for approval of their establishments for such purpose. Application
must be made on a form furnished by the Program, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, and must include all information called for by that form.
(d) Approval for Federal import inspection must be in accordance with §§ 304.1 and 304.2 of this chapter. Also, before approval is granted, the establishment must have developed written Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures in accordance with part 416 of this chapter.
(e) Owners or operators of establishments at which import inspections of product are to be made shall furnish adequate sanitary facilities and equipment for examination of such product. The requirements of §§ 307.1, 307.2(b), (d), (f), (h), (k), and (l) and 416.1 through 416.6 of this chapter shall apply as conditions for approval of establishments as official import inspection establishments to the same extent and in the same manner as they apply with respect to official establishments.
(f) The Administrator is authorized to approve any establishment as an official import inspection establishment, provided that an application has been filed in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and he determines that such establishment meets the requirements under paragraph (e) of this section. Any application for inspection under this section may be denied or refused in accordance with the rules of practice in part 500 of this chapter.
(g) Approval of an official import inspection establishment may be withdrawn in accordance with applicable rules of practice if it is determined that the sanitary conditions are such that the product is rendered adulterated, that such action is authorized by section 21(b) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (84 Stat. 91), or that the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section were not complied with. Approval may be withdrawn in accordance with section 401 of the Act and applicable rules of practice.
(h) A special official number shall be assigned to each official import inspection establishment. Such number shall be used to identify all products inspected and passed for entry at the establishment.
(i) A product examination must be made, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, of a foreign fish or fish product, including defrosting if necessary to determine its condition. Inspection standards for foreign chilled fresh or frozen fresh fish shall be the same as those used for domestic fish or fish products. Samples may be collected at no cost to FSIS and submitted to an FSIS laboratory for analysis (See § 557.18).
(j) Imported canned products are required to be sound, healthful, properly labeled, wholesome, and otherwise not adulterated at the time the products are offered for importation into the United States. Provided other requirements of this part are met, the determination of the acceptability of the product and the condition of the containers shall be based on the results of an examination of a statistical sample drawn from the consignment as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. If the inspector determines, on the basis of the sample examination, that the product does not meet the requirements of the Act and regulations thereunder, the consignment shall be refused entry. However, a consignment rejected for container defects but otherwise acceptable may be reoffered for inspection under the following conditions:
(1) If the defective containers are not indicative of an unsafe and unstable product as determined by the Administrator;
(2) If the number and kinds of container defects found in the original sample do not exceed the limits specified for this purpose in FSIS guidelines; and
(3) If the defective containers in the consignment have been sorted out and exported or destroyed under the supervision of an inspector.
(k) Program inspectors or Customs officers at border or seaboard ports shall report the sealing of cars, trucks, or other means of conveyance, and the sealing or identification of containers of foreign product to Program personnel at points where such product is to be inspected.
(l) Representative samples of canned product designated by the Administrator in instructions to inspectors shall be incubated under supervision of such inspectors in accordance with § 318.309(d)(1)(ii), (d)(1)(iii), (d)(1)(iv)(c), (d)(1)(v), (d)(1)(vii) and (d)(1)(viii) of this chapter. The importer or his/her agent shall provide the necessary incubation facilities in accordance with § 318.309(d)(1)(i) of this chapter.
(m) Sampling plans and acceptance levels as prescribed in paragraphs (j) and (l) of this section may be obtained, upon request, from the Office of Field Operations, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 557.7
Products for importation; movement prior to inspection; handling; bond; assistance.
The requirements in 9 CFR 327.7 respecting the movement or conveyance from any port, or delivery to the consignee, of any product required to be inspected under part 327, apply to fish and fish products.
§ 557.8
Import fish and fish products; equipment and means of conveyance used in handling to be maintained in sanitary condition.
Compartments of ocean vessels, railroad cars, and other means of conveyance transporting any fish or fish product to the United States, and all trucks, chutes, platforms, racks, tables, tools, utensils, and all other devices used in moving and handling any fish or fish product offered for importation into the United States, shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
§ 557.9
[Reserved]
§ 557.10
Samples; inspection of consignments; refusal of entry; marking.
The provisions in 9 CFR 327.10 governing the taking of samples, the inspection of consignments, the refusal of entry, and the controlled pre-stamping of shipments of meat and meat food products apply with respect to fish and fish products.
§ 557.11
Receipts to importers for import fish product samples.
FSIS will issue to importers official receipts for samples of foreign products collected for laboratory analysis, as provided in § 327.11 of this chapter.
§ 557.12
Foreign canned or packaged fish and fish products bearing trade labels; sampling and inspection.
Foreign canned or packaged fish and fish products bearing on their immediate containers trade labels that have or have not been approved in accordance with the regulations in § 541.7 of this subchapter are to be sampled and inspected in the same manner as provided by § 327.12 of this chapter for foreign canned meat food products.
§ 557.13
Foreign fish and fish products offered for importation; reporting of findings to Customs.
Program inspectors are to report their findings as to any fish or fish products that have been inspected in accordance with this part in the same manner as that provided by § 327.13 of this chapter for meat products. Fish and fish products that are refused entry are to be handled in the same manner as provided by § 327.13 of this chapter for meat products that are refused entry. Import personnel will identify to the Port Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Importer of record any products refused entry into the United States.
§ 557.14
Marking of fish and fish products and labeling of immediate containers thereof for importation.
The regulations in 9 CFR 327.14 governing the marking of meat and meat food products and the labeling of immediate containers of those products for importation apply with respect to fish and fish products.
§ 557.15
Outside containers of foreign products; marking and labeling; application of official inspection legend.
The requirements in 9 CFR 327.15 governing the marking and labeling of outside containers of meat and meat food products apply also with respect to fish and fish products.
§ 557.16
Small importations for importer's own consumption; requirements.
The exemption in 9 CFR 327.16 for small importations of meat or meat food products for the importer's own consumption applies with respect to fish or fish products.
§ 557.17
Returned U.S. inspected and marked fish and fish products.
U.S. inspected and passed and so marked fish products exported to and returned from foreign countries will be admitted into the United States without compliance with this part upon notification of and approval by the Assistant Administrator, Office of Field Operations, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, in specific cases.
§ 557.18
Fish or fish products offered for entry and entered to be handled and transported as domestic; exception.
The regulations in 9 CFR 327.18 governing the offer for entry into the United States of meat and meat food products apply with respect to fish and fish products. Products that fail to meet these regulatory requirements are subject to penalties as administered by the U.S. Port Director of Customs and Border Protection. Likewise, the products may be subject to detention and to being proceeded against as determined by the Administrator.
§ 557.19
Specimens for laboratory examination and similar purposes.
Importation of fish or fish product samples for trade show exhibition, laboratory examination, research, evaluative testing, trade show exhibition, or other scientific purposes are subject to the same conditions as imported meat or meat product specimens under § 327.19 of this chapter.
§ 557.20-557.23
[Reserved]
§ 557.24
Appeals; how made.
An appeal from a decision of any Program employee is to be made as provided by 9 CFR 327.24.
§ 557.25
Disposition procedures for fish and fish products condemned or ordered destroyed under import inspection.
Disposition procedures for condemned fish or fish products ordered destroyed under import inspection are as those for carcasses, parts, meat, and meat food products under 9 CFR 327.25.
§ 557.26
Official import inspection marks and devices.
The official inspection legend and other marks to be applied to imported fish and fish products are as required by 9 CFR 327.26 for meat food products prepared from cattle, sheep, swine, and goats.
Pt. 559

# PART 559—DETENTION, SEIZURE, CONDEMNATION
Sec.
559.1
Fish and other articles subject to administrative detention.
559.2
Articles or fish subject to judicial seizure and condemnation.
559.3
Criminal offenses.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 559.1
Fish and other articles subject to administrative detention.
The provisions of 9 CFR 329.1 through 329.5 governing the administrative detention of carcasses, parts, meat, and meat food products of livestock apply also with respect to the carcasses, parts, and products of fish.
§ 559.2
Articles or fish subject to judicial seizure and condemnation.
The provisions of 9 CFR 329.6 through 329.8 governing the judicial seizure and condemnation of carcasses, parts, meat, and meat food products of livestock apply also with respect to the carcasses, parts, and products of fish.
§ 559.3
Criminal offenses.
The criminal provisions of the Act apply with respect to the inspection of fish and fish products as they do with respect to the inspection of other food products subject to the Act.
Pt. 560

# PART 560—STATE-FEDERAL, FEDERAL-STATE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS; STATE DESIGNATIONS
Sec.
560.1
Cooperation with States and Territories.
560.2
Cooperation of States in Federal programs.
560.3
Cooperation of States for the Interstate Shipment of Fish and Fish Products.
560.4
Designation of States under the Federal Meat Inspection Act.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 560.1
Cooperation with States and Territories.
The provisions in § 321.1 of this chapter authorizing the Administrator to cooperate with any State (including Puerto Rico) or any organized Territory in developing and administering a meat inspection program for the State or Territory apply with respect to fish and fish products inspection.
§ 560.2
Cooperation of States in Federal programs.
Under the “Talmadge-Aiken Act” of September 28, 1962 (7 U.S.C. 450), the Administrator is authorized to utilize employees and facilities of any State in carrying out Federal functions under the FMIA, including functions relating to the inspection of fish and fish products. A cooperative program for this purpose is called a Federal-State program.
§ 560.3
Cooperation of States for the Interstate Shipment of Fish and Fish Products.
The provisions in § 321.3 authorizing the Administrator to coordinate with States that have meat inspection programs as provided in § 321.1 of this chapter to select certain establishments operating under these programs to participate in a cooperative program to ship products in interstate commerce apply with respect to fish and fish products inspection.
§ 560.4
Designation of States under the Federal Meat Inspection Act.
The requirements in part 331 of this chapter apply with respect to fish and fish products inspection, including:
(a) The requirements in 9 CFR 331.3 governing the designation of States for Federal inspection under section 301(c) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 661(c));
(b) The requirements in 9 CFR 331.5 governing the designation under section 301(c) of the Act of establishments whose operations would clearly endanger the public health; and
(c) The requirements in 9 CFR 331.6 governing the designation of States under section 205 of the Act.
Pt. 551

# PART 561—RULES OF PRACTICE
Sec.
561.1
Rules of practice governing inspection actions.
561.2
Rules of practice governing proceedings under the Federal Meat Inspection Act.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 601-602, 606-622, 624-695; 7 CFR 2.7, 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
80 FR 75616, Dec. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 561.1
Rules of practice governing inspection actions.
The rules of practice in part 500 of this chapter, governing inspection actions taken by FSIS with respect to establishments and products, apply to actions taken with respect to fish slaughter, fish processing, fish, and fish products regulated under this subchapter.
§ 561.2
Rules of practice governing proceedings under the Federal Meat Inspection Act.
The procedures that the Agency must follow before reporting a violation of the Federal Meat Inspection Act for prosecution by the Department of Justice are given in part 335 of this chapter.
SUBCHAPTERS G-H [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER I—EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION
Pt. 590

# PART 590—INSPECTION OF EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS (EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT)

# Subpart A—General

# Definitions
Sec.
590.1
Meaning of words.
590.5
Terms defined.

# Administration
590.10
Authority.
590.13
Federal and State cooperation.
590.18
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Scope of Inspection
590.20
Inspection in accordance with methods prescribed or approved.
590.24
Egg products plants requiring continuous inspection.
590.26
Egg products entering or prepared in official plants.
590.28
Other inspections.

# Relation to Other Authorities
590.30
At official plants.
590.35
Eggs and egg products outside official plants.

# Eggs and Egg Products Not Intended for Human Food
590.40
Egg products not intended for human food.
590.45
Prohibition on eggs and egg products not intended for use as human food.

# Refrigeration of Shell Eggs
590.50
Egg temperature and labeling requirements.

# Exemptions
590.100
Specific exemptions.

# Performance of Service
590.110
Licensed inspectors.
590.118
Identification.
590.120
Financial interest of inspectors.
590.122
Time of inspection.
590.124
Schedule of operation of official plants.
590.126
Overtime inspection service.
590.128
Holiday inspection service.
590.130
Basis of billing plants.
590.132
Access to plants.
590.134
Accessibility of product and cooler rooms.
590.136
Accommodations and equipment to be furnished by facilities for use of inspection program personnel in performing service.

# Application for Service
590.140
Application for grant of inspection.
590.142
Filing of application.
590.144
Authority of applicant.
590.146
Survey and grant of inspection.
590.149
Conditions for receiving inspection.

# Inauguration of Service
590.150
Official plant numbers.
590.155
Inauguration of service.

# Denial of Service
590.160
Clean Water Act; refusal, suspension, or withdrawal of service.
590.161
Termination of plant approval.

# Records and Related Requirements for Eggs and Egg Products Handlers and Related Industries
590.200
Records and related requirements.
590.220
Information and assistance to be furnished to inspectors.

# Administrative Detention
590.240
Detaining product.

# Appeal of an Inspection or Decision
590.300
Appeal inspections.
590.310
Appeal inspections; how made.
590.320
How to file an appeal inspection or decision review.
590.330
When an application for an appeal inspection may be refused.
590.340
Who must perform the appeal inspection or decision review.
590.350
Appeal samples.

# Certificates
590.400
Form of certificates.
590.402
Egg products inspection certificates.
590.404
Erasures or alterations made on official certificates.
590.406
Disposition of official certificates.
590.407
Export certification and marking of containers with export inspection mark.

# Identifying and Marking Product
590.410
Egg products required to be labeled.
590.411
Label approval.
590.412
Approval of generic labels.
590.413
Form of official identification symbol and inspection mark.
590.414
Products bearing the official inspection mark.
590.415
Use of other official identification.
590.417
Unauthorized use or disposition of approved labels.
590.418
Supervision of marking and packaging.
590.419
Reuse of containers bearing official identification prohibited.

# Inspection, Reinspection, Condemnation, and Retention
590.420
Inspection.
590.422
Condemnation.
590.424
Reinspection.
590.426
Retention.

# Entry of Materials Into Official Egg Products Plants
590.430
Limitation on entry of material.
590.435
Use of food ingredients and approval of materials.
590.440
Processing ova.

# Sanitary, Processing, and Facility Requirements
590.504
General operating procedures.
590.508
Candling and transfer-room operations.
590.510
Classifications of shell eggs used in the processing of egg products.
590.516
Cleaning of eggs prior to packaging, breaking, or pasteurizing.
590.522
Egg products processing room operations.
590.534
Freezing facilities.
590.570
Control of pathogens in pasteurized egg products..

# Laboratory
590.580
Pathogen reduction standards testing.
590.590
Use of irradiated shell eggs to produce egg products.

# Inspection and Disposition of Restricted Eggs
590.700
Prohibition on disposition of restricted eggs.
590.720
Disposition of restricted eggs.

# Identification of Restricted Eggs or Egg Products Not Intended for Human Consumption
590.800
Identification of restricted eggs.
590.801
Nest-run or washed ungraded eggs.
590.840
Identification of inedible, unwholesome, or adulterated egg products.
590.860
Identification wording.

# Subpart B—Imports
590.900
Definitions; requirements for importation into the United States.
590.901
Egg products offered for entry and entered to be handled and transported as domestic; entry into official plants; transportation.
590.905
Importation of restricted eggs.
590.910
Eligibility of foreign countries for importation of egg products into the United States.
590.915
Imported products; foreign inspection certificates required.
590.920
Import inspection application.
590.925
Inspection of eggs and egg products offered for entry.
590.930
Eggs and egg products offered for entry, retention in customs custody; delivery under bond; movement prior to inspection; handling; equipment and assistance.
590.935
Means of conveyance and equipment used in handling egg products offered for entry to be maintained in sanitary condition.
590.940
Identification of egg products offered for entry; official import inspection marks and devices.
590.945
Eggs and egg products offered for entry; reporting of findings to customs; handling of articles refused entry; appeals, how made; denaturing procedures.
590.950
Labeling of immediate containers of egg products offered for entry.
590.955
Labeling of shipping containers of egg products offered for entry.
590.956
Relabeling of imported egg products.
590.960
Small importations for importer's personal use, display, or laboratory analysis.
590.965
Returned to the United States inspected and identified egg products; exemption.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 1031-1056; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981. Further redesignated at 63 FR 72353, Dec. 31, 1998.

# Subpart A—General

# Definitions
§ 590.1
Meaning of words.
Under these regulations, words in the singular shall be deemed to mean the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand.
§ 590.5
Terms defined.
For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, as follows:
Acceptable
means suitable for the purpose intended and acceptable to the Administrator.
Act
means the applicable provisions of the Egg Products Inspection Act (Pub. L. 91-597, 84 Stat. 1620
et seq.
).
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service or any officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may be delegated to act in his or her stead.
Adulterated
means any egg or egg product under one or more of the following circumstances:
(a) If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance which may render it injurious to health; but in case the substance is not an added substance, such article shall not be considered adulterated under this clause if the quantity of such substance in or on such article does not ordinarily render it injurious to health;
(b)(1) If it bears or contains any added poisonous or added deleterious substance (other than one which is (i) a pesticide chemical in or on a raw agricultural commodity; (ii) a food additive; or (iii) a color additive) which may in the judgment of the Secretary, make such article unfit for human food;
(2) If it is, in whole or in part, a raw agricultural commodity and such commodity bears or contains a pesticide chemical which is unsafe within the meaning of section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(3) If it bears or contains any food additive which is unsafe within the meaning of section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(4) If it bears or contains any color additive which is unsafe within the meaning of section 706 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act: Provided, that an article which is not otherwise deemed adulterated under paragraph (b)(2), (3), or (4) of this definition shall nevertheless be deemed adulterated if use of the pesticide chemical, food additive, or color additive, in or on such article, is prohibited by regulations of the Secretary in official plants;
(c) If it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or decomposed substance, or if it is otherwise unfit for human food;
(d) If it has been prepared, packaged, or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with filth, or whereby it may have been rendered injurious to health;
(e) If it is an egg which has been subjected to incubation or the product of any egg which has been subjected to incubation;
(f) If its container is composed, in whole or in part of any poisonous or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health;
(g) If it has been intentionally subjected to radiation, unless the use of the radiation was in conformity with a regulation or exemption in effect pursuant to section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or
(h) If any valuable constituent has been, in whole or in part, omitted or abstracted therefrom; or if any substance has been substituted, wholly or in part therefor; or if damage or inferiority has been concealed in any manner; or if any substance has been added thereto or mixed or packed therewith so as to increase its bulk or weight, or reduce its quality or strength, or make it appear better or of greater value than it is.
Ambient temperature
means the air temperature maintained in an egg storage facility or transport vehicle.
Applicant
means any person who requests any inspection service as authorized under the Act or the regulations of this part.
Capable of use as human food
means any egg or egg product, unless it is denatured, or otherwise identified, as required by these regulations to deter its use as human food.
Class
means any subdivision of a product based on essential physical characteristics that differentiate between major groups of the same kind, type, or method of processing.
Commerce
means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
Condition
means any condition (including, but not being limited to, the state of preservation, cleanliness, soundness, wholesomeness, or fitness for human food) of any product which affects its merchantability; or any condition, including but not being limited
to, the processing, handling, or packaging which affects such product.
Container
or
Package
includes for egg products, any box, can, tin, plastic, or other receptacle, wrapper, or cover and for shell eggs, any carton, basket, case, cart, pallet, or other receptacle.
(a)
Immediate container
means any package or other container in which egg products or shell eggs are packed for household or other ultimate consumers.
(b)
Shipping container
means any container used in packing an immediate container.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Egg
means the shell egg of the domesticated chicken, turkey, duck, goose, or guinea. Some of the terms applicable to shell eggs are as follows:
(a)
Check
means an egg that has a broken shell or crack in the shell but has its shell membranes intact and contents not leaking.
(b)
Clean and sound shell egg
means any egg whose shell is free of adhering dirt or foreign material and is not cracked or broken.
(c)
Dirty egg
or
Dirt
means an egg that has a shell that is unbroken and has adhering dirt or foreign material.
(d)
Incubator reject
means an egg that has been subjected to incubation and has been removed from incubation during the hatching operations as infertile or otherwise unhatchable.
(e)
Inedible
means eggs of the following descriptions: Black rots, yellow rots, white rots, mixed rots, sour eggs, eggs with green whites, eggs with stuck yolks, moldy eggs, musty eggs, eggs showing blood rings, and eggs containing embryo chicks (at or beyond the blood ring stage).
(f)
Leaker
means an egg that has a crack or break in the shell and shell membranes to the extent that the egg contents are exposed or are exuding or free to exude through the shell.
(g)
Loss
means an egg that is unfit for human food because it is smashed or broken so that its contents are leaking; or overheated, frozen, or contaminated; or an incubator reject; or because it contains a bloody white, large meat spots, a large quantity of blood, or other foreign material.
(h)
Restricted egg
means any check, dirty egg, incubator reject, inedible, leaker, or loss.
Egg handler
means any person, excluding the ultimate consumer, who engages in any business in commerce that involves buying or selling any eggs (as a poultry producer or otherwise), or processing any egg products, or otherwise using any eggs in the preparation of human food.
Egg product
means any dried, frozen, or liquid eggs, with or without added ingredients, excepting products which contain eggs only in a relatively small proportion or historically have not been, in the judgment of the Secretary, considered by consumers as products of the egg food industry, and which may be exempted by the Secretary under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe to assure that the egg ingredients are not adulterated and such products are not represented as egg products. For the purposes of this part, the following products, among others, are exempted as not being egg products: Cooked egg products, imitation egg products, dietary foods, dried no-bake custard mixes, egg nog mixes, acidic dressings, noodles, milk and egg dip, cake mixes, French toast, and sandwiches containing eggs or egg products, provided such products are prepared from inspected egg products or eggs containing no more restricted eggs than are allowed in the official standards for U.S. Consumer Grade B shell eggs. Balut and other similar ethnic delicacies are also exempted from inspection under this part.
Eggs of current production
means shell eggs which have moved through the usual marketing channels since the time they were laid and are not in excess of 60 days old.
Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
means the Act so entitled, approved November 3, 1966 (80 Stat. 1296), and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto.
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
means the Act so entitled, approved June 25, 1938 (52 Stat. 1040), and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto.
Inspection
means the application of such inspection methods and techniques as are deemed necessary by the
responsible Secretary to carry out the provisions of the Egg Products Inspection Act and the regulations under this part.
Inspection program personnel
means any inspector or other individual employed by the Department or any cooperating agency who is authorized by the Secretary to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the Program.
Inspection service
means the official service within the Department having the responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the Egg Products Inspection Act. Inspection service also means the activities performed, including official reporting by such official service.
Interested party
means any person financially interested in a transaction involving any inspection or appeal inspection of any product, or the decision of an inspector.
Label
means a display of any printed, graphic, or other method of identification upon the shipping container, if any, or upon the immediate container, including but not limited to, an individual consumer package of eggs and egg products, or accompanying such product.
Misbranded
means any egg products which are not labeled and packaged in accordance with the requirements prescribed by regulations of the Administrator under this part.
Nest-run eggs
means eggs which are packed as they come from the production facilities without having been washed, sized and/or candled for quality, with the exception that some checks, dirties, or other obvious undergrades may have been removed.
Official certificate
means any certificate prescribed by regulations of the Administrator for issuance by an inspector or other person performing official functions under this part.
Official device
means any device prescribed or authorized by the Secretary for use in applying any official mark.
Official identification
means the official inspection mark or any other symbol prescribed by regulations of this part to identify the status of any article.
Official inspection mark
means any symbol prescribed by the regulations of the Administrator showing that egg products were inspected in accordance with this part.
Official plant
means any plant in which the plant facilities, methods of operation, and sanitary procedures have been found suitable and adequate by the Administrator for the inspection of egg products pursuant to the regulations in this part and in which inspection service is carried on.
Official standards
means the standards of quality, grades, and weight classes for eggs.
Office of inspection
means the office of any inspector.
Pasteurize
means the subjecting of each particle of egg products to heat or other treatments to destroy harmful viable microorganisms.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit.
Pesticide chemical, Food additive, Color additive,
and
Raw agricultural commodity
shall have the same meaning for purposes of this part as under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Potable water
means water that has been approved by a State health authority or other agency or laboratory acceptable to the Administrator as safe for drinking and suitable for food processing.
Processing
means manufacturing of egg products, including breaking eggs or filtering, mixing, blending, pasteurizing, stabilizing, cooling, freezing or drying, or packaging or repackaging egg products at official plants.
Producer-packer
means any producer who sorts eggs only from his own production and packs them into their various qualities.
Quality
means the inherent properties of any product which determine its relative degree of excellence.
Regulations
means the provisions in this part.
Regulatory inspector
means any employee of the U.S. Government, or State or local jurisdiction, who is authorized by the Secretary to make such inspections as required in § 590.28 of these regulations.
Sampling
means the act of taking samples of any product for inspection or analyses.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or his delegate.
Shell egg packer
means any person engaged in the sorting of shell eggs from sources other than or in addition to the person's own production into their various qualities, either mechanically or by other means.
Shipped for retail sale
means eggs that are forwarded from the processing facility for distribution to the ultimate consumer.
Stabilization
means the subjection of any egg product to a desugaring process.
State
means any State of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Ultimate consumer
means any household consumer, restaurant, institution, or any other party who has purchased or received shell eggs or egg products for consumption.
United States
means the States.
Washed ungraded eggs
means eggs which have been washed but not sized or segregated for quality.
White or albumen
means, for the purpose of this part, the product obtained from the egg as broken from the shell and separated from the yolk.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 590.5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Administration
§ 590.10
Authority.
The Administrator shall perform, for and under the supervision of the Secretary, such duties as the Secretary may require in the enforcement or administration of the provisions of the Act, and this part. The Administrator may waive for a limited period any particular provisions of the regulations to permit experimentation so that new procedures, equipment, and processing techniques may be tested to facilitate definite improvements and at the same time to maintain full compliance with the spirit and intent of the regulations. The Food Safety and Inspection Service and its officers and employees will not be liable in damages through acts of commission or omission in the administration of this part.
[42 FR 2971, Jan. 14, 1977. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.13
Federal and State cooperation.
The Secretary shall, whenever he determines that it would effectuate the purposes of the Act, authorize the Administrator to cooperate with appropriate State and other governmental agencies in carrying out any provisions of the Egg Products Inspection Act and these regulations. In carrying out the provisions of the Act and the regulations, the Secretary may conduct such examinations, investigations, and inspections as he determines practicable through any officer or employee of any such agency commissioned by him for such purpose. The Secretary shall reimburse the States and other agencies for the services rendered by them in such cooperative programs as agreed to in the cooperative agreements as signed by the Administrator and the duly authorized agent of the State or other agency.
§ 590.18
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(a)
Purpose.
This section collects and displays the control numbers assigned to information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget contained in 7 CFR 590 pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-511.
(b)
Display.
7 CFR section where identified and described
Current OMB control number
§ 590.10
0581-0113
§ 590.13
0581-0113
§ 590.22
0581-0113
§ 590.28(a)(1)
0581-0113
§ 590.40
0581-0113
§ 590.45(c)(1)
0581-0113
§ 590.45(c)(3)
0581-0113
§ 590.45(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.110(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.112
0581-0113
§ 590.122
0581-0113
§ 590.124
0581-0113
§ 590.126
0581-0113
§ 590.128(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.140
0581-0113
§ 590.144
0581-0113
§ 590.146(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.146(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.155
0581-0113
§ 590.160(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.160(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.160(f)(3)
0581-0113
§ 590.160(f)(4)
0581-0113
§ 590.200(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.200(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.220
0581-0113
§ 590.240
0581-0113
§ 590.320
0581-0113
§ 590.402(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.411(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.411(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.411(e)
0581-0113
§ 590.411(f)
0581-0113
§ 590.418(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.430(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.435(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.435(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.440(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.500(h)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(h)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(k)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(o)(1)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(o)(2)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(o)(3)(i)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(o)(3)(iii)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(o)(3)(iv)
0581-0113
§ 590.504(o)(3)(v)
0581-0113
§ 590.515(a)(8)
0581-0113
§ 590.520(h)
0581-0113
§ 590.522(f)
0581-0113
§ 590.522(x)
0581-0113
§ 590.522(aa)(2)
0581-0113
§ 590.530(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.534(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.544(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.544(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.544(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.552(a)(3)
0581-0113
§ 590.552(b)(1)(i)
0581-0113
§ 590.552(b)(2)
0581-0113
§ 590.570(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.575(b)(3)
0581-0113
§ 590.575(d)
0581-0113
§ 590.580(c)
0581-0113
§ 590.600
0581-0113
§ 590.610(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.620
0581-0113
§ 590.640(b)(1)
0581-0113
§ 590.680(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.800
0581-0113
§ 590.840
0581-0113
§ 590.905(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.915(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.915(b)
0581-0113
§ 590.920
0581-0113
§ 590.930(f)
0581-0113
§ 590.950(a)
0581-0113
§ 590.960
0581-0113
§ 590.965
0581-0113
[48 FR 34238, July 28, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 23270, June 3, 1985; 54 FR 37290, Sept. 8, 1989]

# Scope of Inspection
§ 590.20
Inspection in accordance with methods prescribed or approved.
Inspection of eggs and egg products shall be rendered pursuant to these regulations and under such conditions and in accordance with such methods as may be prescribed or approved by the Administrator.
§ 590.24
Egg products plants requiring continuous inspection.
No plant in which egg products processing operations are conducted shall process egg products without continuous inspection under these regulations, except as expressly exempted in § 590.100.
§ 590.26
Egg products entering or prepared in official plants.
Eggs and egg products processed in an official plant shall be inspected, processed, marked, and labeled as required by these regulations. Egg products entering an official plant shall have been inspected, processed, marked, and labeled as required by these regulations.
§ 590.28
Other inspections.
Inspection program personnel will make periodic inspections of business premises, facilities, inventories, operations, transport vehicles, and records of egg handlers, and the records of all persons engaged in the business of transporting, shipping, or receiving any eggs or egg products.
[85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Relation to Other Authorities
§ 590.30
At official plants.
(a) Requirements within the scope of the Act with respect to premises, facilities, and operations of any official plant which are in addition to or different than those made under this part may not be imposed by any State or local jurisdiction except that any such jurisdiction may impose recordkeeping and other requirements within the scope of § 590.200, if consistent therewith, with respect to any such plant.
(b) Labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements in addition to or different than those made under this
part, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act may not be imposed by any State or local jurisdiction with respect to egg products processed at any official plant in accordance with the requirements under this part and such Acts.
§ 590.35
Eggs and egg products outside official plants.
Any State or local jurisdiction may exercise jurisdiction with respect to eggs and egg products for the purpose of preventing the distribution for human food purposes of any such articles which are outside of the official plant and are in violation of this part or any of said Federal Acts or any State or local law consistent therewith.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 69971, Dec. 17, 1998]

# Eggs and Egg Products Not Intended for Human Food
§ 590.40
Egg products not intended for human food.
Periodic inspections will be made at any plant processing egg products which are not intended for use as human food of its operations and records to ensure compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part. Egg products not intended for use as human food shall be denatured or decharacterized prior to being offered for sale or transportation and identified as prescribed by the regulations in this part to prevent their use as human food.
[85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.45
Prohibition on eggs and egg products not intended for use as human food.
(a) No person shall buy, sell, or transport or offer to buy or sell, or offer or receive for transportation in commerce, any eggs or egg products which are not intended for use as human food, unless they are denatured or decharacterized, unless shipped under seal as authorized in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section or in §§ 590.504(c) and 590.720(a) and identified as required by the regulations in this part.
(b) No person shall import or export shell eggs classified as loss, inedible, or incubator rejects or any egg products which are unwholesome, adulterated, or are otherwise unfit for human food purposes, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, unless they are denatured or decharacterized and identified as required by the regulations in this part.
(c) Egg products which are unwholesome, adulterated, or are otherwise unfit for human food purposes that are not denatured or decharacterized may be exported to foreign countries for industrial use or animal food under the following provisions:
(1) Authorized government official of the foreign country shall approve the importation of such products into that country.
(2) The egg products shall be shipped under U.S. Government seal and identified as required in § 590.840.
(3) Provisions for the control of such inedible product in the foreign country to preclude its use as human food must be established and approved by the Administrator. Such control may consist of, but not be limited to, receipt and inspection by an appropriate U.S. Government official, an official of an approved meat, poultry, or egg products inspection system of the foreign government, or, when acceptable to the Administrator, a foreign government official including other foreign health authorities.
(d) Foreign governments may petition the Administrator for approval to import into this country egg products which are unwholesome, adulterated, or otherwise unfit for human food purposes that are not denatured or decharacterized for industrial use or animal food requirements. Such products shall be subject to the provisions of this part and other applicable laws and regulations for importation into the United States.
[48 FR 34238, July 28, 1983]

# Refrigeration of Shell Eggs
§ 590.50
Egg temperature and labeling requirements.
(a) All shell eggs packed into containers destined for the ultimate consumer must be stored and transported under refrigeration at an ambient temperature of no greater than 45 °F (7.2 °C) and must bear safe handling instructions in accordance with 21 CFR 101.17(h).
(b) Any producer-packer with an annual egg production from a flock of 3,000 or fewer layers is exempt from the temperature and labeling requirements of this section. Such producer-packer is still required to comply with the labeling requirements in 21 CFR 101.17(h).
[85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Exemptions
§ 590.100
Specific exemptions.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) The following are exempt, to the extent prescribed, from the inspection of egg products processing operations in section 5(a) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(a)), provided the conditions for exemption and the provisions of these regulations are met:
(1) The processing and sale of egg products by any poultry producer from eggs of his own flock's production when sold directly to a household consumer exclusively for use by the consumer and members of the household and its nonpaying guests and employees.
(2) The processing in non-official plants, including but not limited to bakeries, restaurants, and other food processors, of certain categories of food products which contain eggs or egg products as an ingredient, as well as the sale and possession of such products. Such products must be manufactured from inspected egg products processed in accordance with the regulations in this part and 9 CFR part 591 or from eggs containing no more restricted eggs than are allowed in the official standards for U.S. Consumer Grade B shell eggs.
[85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Performance of Service
§ 590.110
Licensed inspectors.
(a) Any person who is a Federal or State employee, or the employee of a local jurisdiction possessing proper qualifications as determined by an examination for competency and who is to perform services pursuant to this part, may be licensed by the Secretary as an inspector.
(b) Licenses issued by the Secretary are to be countersigned by the Administrator or by any other designated official of the Service.
(c) No person may be licensed to inspect any product in which he is financially interested.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971; 36 FR 10841, June 4, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]
§ 590.118
Identification.
Inspection program personnel will be furnished with a numbered official badge that will be carried in a proper manner at all times while on duty. This badge will be sufficient identification to entitle inspection program personnel entry at all regular entrances and to all parts of the official plant and premises to which inspection program personnel are assigned.
[85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.120
Financial interest of inspectors.
(a) Inspection program personnel will not inspect any product in which he or she has a financial interest; or that is produced by a plant at which the employee, the employee's spouse, minor child, partner, organization in which the employee is serving as officer, director, trustee, partner, or employee; or that is produced by any other person with whom inspection program personnel are negotiating or have any arrangements concerning prospective employment.
(b) All inspection program personnel are subject to statutory restrictions with respect to political activities; e.g., 5 U.S.C. 7324 and 1502.
(c) Violation of the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section or the provisions of applicable statutes referenced in paragraph (b) of this section will constitute grounds for dismissal.
(d) Inspection program personnel are subject to all applicable provisions of law and regulations and instructions of the Department and the Food Safety and Inspection Service concerning employee responsibilities and conduct. The setting forth of certain prohibitions in this part in no way limits the applicability of such general or other regulations or instructions.
[85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.122
Time of inspection.
The inspector who is to perform the inspection in an official plant shall be given reasonable advance notice by plant management of the hours when such inspection will be required.
[60 FR 49169, Sept. 21, 1995]
§ 590.124
Schedule of operation of official plants.
Operating schedules for an official plant shall be subject to approval of the Administrator. The normal operating schedule shall consist of a continuous 8-hour period per day and shall include the time for FSIS inspection program personnel to put on required gear and to walk to a work station, and the time for FSIS inspection program personnel to return from a work station and remove required gear (excluding not to exceed 1 hour for lunch), 5 consecutive days per week, within the administrative workweek, Sunday through Saturday, for each full shift required. Clock hours of daily operations need not be specified in a schedule, although as a condition of continuance of approval of a schedule, the hours of operation must be reasonably uniform from day to day.
[48 FR 20683, May 9, 1983, as amended at 76 FR 33980, June 10, 2011]
§ 590.126
Overtime inspection service.
When operations in an official plant require the services of inspection personnel beyond their regularly assigned tour of duty on any day or on a day outside the established schedule, such services are considered as overtime work. The official plant must give reasonable advance notice to the inspector of any overtime service necessary and must pay for such overtime. For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the overtime rate for inspection service, per hour per program employee, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by the previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, multiplied by 1.5, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate. FSIS calculates the benefits rate, the travel and operating rate, the overhead rate, and the allowance for bad debt rate using the formulas set forth in § 592.510(b) and the cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors set forth in § 592.510(c) of this chapter.
[71 FR 2143, Jan. 13, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 20228, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 590.128
Holiday inspection service.
(a) When an official plant requires inspection service on a holiday or a day designated in lieu of a holiday, such service is considered holiday work. The official plant must, in advance of such holiday work, request the inspector in charge to furnish inspection service during such period and must pay the Agency for such holiday work at the hourly rate. For each calendar year, FSIS calculates the holiday rate for inspection service, per hour per program employee, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by the previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, multiplied by 2, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate. FSIS will calculate the benefits rate, the travel and operating
rate, the overhead rate, and the allowance for bad debt rate using the formulas set forth in § 592.510(b), and the cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors set forth in § 592.510(c) of this chapter.
(b) The term “holiday” shall mean the legal public holidays specified by the Congress in paragraph (a) of section 6103, title 5 of the United States Code. Information on legal holidays may be obtained from the supervisor.
[37 FR 6657, Apr. 1, 1972. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 9, Jan. 2, 1981. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 46071, Oct. 15, 1982; 59 FR 52637, Oct. 18, 1994; 65 FR 60095, Oct. 10, 2000; 67 FR 3430, Jan. 24, 2002; 68 FR 37957, June 26, 2003; 71 FR 2143, Jan. 13, 2006; 76 FR 20228, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 590.130
Basis of billing plants.
Overtime and/or holiday services shall be billed to the official plant on the basis of each 15 minutes of overtime and/or holiday service performed by each inspector providing such service to the plant, except that when an official plant requires the services of an inspector after he has completed his day's assignment and left the plant or when he is called back to duty on a day outside the established normal operating schedule or on a holiday, the official plant shall pay for a minimum of 2 hours service at the applicable established rate. Extra travel expense incurred while rendering overtime or holiday service shall be billed to the official plant. Bills are payable upon receipt and become delinquent 30 days from date of billing. Overtime or holiday inspection service will not be performed at any plant that is delinquent, and processing operations shall be confined to the regular operating schedule of the plant. In addition, fees will be charged and collected for certifications requested by and provided for the official plant that are not within the scope of these regulations.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 49169, Sept. 21, 1995; 65 FR 44950, July 20, 2000]
§ 590.132
Access to plants.
Access shall not be refused to any representative of the Secretary to any plant, place of business, or transport vehicle subject to inspection under the provisions of this part upon presentation of proper credentials.
[63 FR 45675, Aug. 27, 1998]
§ 590.134
Accessibility of product and cooler rooms.
(a) Each product for which inspection service is required shall be so placed as to disclose fully its class, quality, quantity, and condition as the circumstances may warrant.
(b) The perimeter of each cooler room used to store eggs must be made accessible in order for the Secretary's representatives to determine the ambient temperature under which shell eggs packed into containers destined for the ultimate consumer are stored.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 45675, Aug. 27, 1998; 85 FR 68674, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.136
Accommodations and equipment to be furnished by facilities for use of inspection program personnel in performing service.
(a)
Inspection program personnel office.
Office space, including, but not limited to, furnishings, light, heat, and janitor service, will be provided without cost in the official plant for the use of inspection program personnel for official purposes. The room or space set apart for this purpose must meet the approval of the Food Safety and Inspection Service and be conveniently located, properly ventilated, and provided with lockers or file cabinets suitable for the protection and storage of supplies and with accommodations suitable for inspection program personnel to change clothing. At the discretion of the Administrator, small official plants requiring the services of less than one full-time inspector need not furnish accommodations for inspection program personnel as prescribed in this section where adequate accommodations exist in a nearby convenient location.
(b)
Accommodations and equipment.
Such accommodations and equipment
must include, but not be limited to, a room or area suitable for sampling product and a stationary or adequately secured storage box or cage (capable of being locked only by inspection program personnel) for holding official samples.
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Application for Service
§ 590.140
Application for grant of inspection.
The proprietor or operator of each official plant and official import inspection establishment must make application to the Administrator for inspection service unless exempted by § 590.100. The application must be made in writing on forms furnished by the inspection service. In cases of change of name or ownership or change of location, a new application must be made.
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.142
Filing of application.
An application for inspection service will be regarded as filed only when it has been:
(a) Filled in completely;
(b) Signed by the applicant; and
(c) Received in the appropriate District Office.
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.144
Authority of applicant.
Proof of authority of any person applying for inspection service may be required at the discretion of the Administrator.
§ 590.146
Survey and grant of inspection.
(a) Before inspection is granted, FSIS will survey the official plant to determine if the construction and facilities of the plant are in accordance with the regulations in this part. FSIS will grant inspection, subject to § 500.7 of this chapter, when these requirements are met and the requirements contained in § 590.149 are met.
(b) FSIS will give notice in writing to each applicant granted inspection and will specify in the notice the official plant, including the limits of the plant's premises, to which the grant pertains.
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.149
Conditions for receiving inspection.
(a) Before receiving Federal inspection, a plant must have developed written sanitation Standard Operating Procedures, in accordance with part 416 and § 591.1(a) of this chapter.
(b) Before receiving Federal inspection, a plant must conduct a hazard analysis, and develop and implement a HACCP plan, in accordance with part 417 and § 591.1(a) of this chapter. A conditional grant of inspection may be provided for a period not to exceed 90 days, during which period the facility must validate its HACCP plan.
(c) Before producing new product for distribution in commerce, a plant must conduct a hazard analysis and develop a HACCP plan applicable to that product, in accordance with § 417.2 of this chapter. During a period not to exceed 90 days after the date the new product is produced for distribution in commerce, the plant must validate its HACCP plan, in accordance with § 417.4 of this chapter.
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81340, Dec. 16, 2020]

# Inauguration of Service
§ 590.150
Official plant numbers.
An official plant number shall be assigned to each plant granted inspection service. Such plant number shall be used to identify all containers of inspected products prepared in the plant which are capable of use as human food. A plant shall not have more than one plant number.
§ 590.155
Inauguration of service.
Prior to the inauguration of service, the proprietor or operator of the plant shall be knowledgeable of the requirements of these regulations.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 49169, Sept. 21, 1995]

# Denial of Service
§ 590.160
Clean Water Act; refusal, suspension, or withdrawal of service.
(a) Any applicant for inspection at a plant where the operations thereof may result in any discharge into the navigable waters in the United States is required by subsection 401(a)(1) (33 U.S.C. 1341) of the Clean Water Act as amended (86 Stat. 816, 91 Stat. 1566, 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
), to provide the Administrator with a certification, as prescribed in said subsection, that any such discharge will comply with the applicable provisions of sections 301, 302, 303, 306, and 307 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1311, 1312, 1313, 1316, and 1317). No grant of inspection can be issued unless such certification has been obtained, or is waived, because failure of refusal of the State, interstate agency, or the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to act on a request for certification within a reasonable period (which should not exceed 1 year after receipt of such a request). Further, upon receipt of an application for inspection and a certification as required by section 401(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act, the Administrator (as defined in § 590.5) is required by subparagraph (2) of said subsection to notify the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for proceedings in accordance with that subsection. No grant of inspection can be made until the requirements of section 401(a)(1) and (2) have been met.
(b) Inspection may be suspended or revoked and plant approval terminated as provided in section 401(a)(4) and (5) of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1341(a)(4) and (5)).
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.161
Termination of plant approval.
When inspection service is not performed at any plant for a period of at least 90 days, plant approval shall terminate upon notice by the Administrator without further proceedings; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any plant where the Administrator determines that such a plant operates on a seasonal basis and the inspection service has not been used as a result of such seasonal operation, or where operations have ceased due to extraordinary circumstances determined by the Administrator as not warranting termination of plant approval.
[45 FR 23641, Apr. 8, 1980. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Records and Related Requirements for Eggs and Egg Products Handlers and Related Industries
§ 590.200
Records and related requirements.
(a) Persons engaged in the transporting, shipping, or receiving of any eggs or egg products in commerce, or holding such articles so received, and all egg handlers, except producer-packers with an annual egg production from a flock of 3,000 layers or fewer, must maintain records documenting, for a period of 2 years, the following, to the extent applicable:
(1) The date of lay, date and time of refrigeration, date of receipt, quantity and quality of eggs purchased or received, and from whom (including a complete address, unless a master list is maintained). Process records documenting that the temperature and labeling requirements in § 590.50(a) have been met must also be kept;
(2) The date of packaging, ambient air temperature surrounding product stored after processing, quantity and quality of eggs delivered or sold, and to whom (including a complete address, unless a master list is maintained);
(3) If a consecutive lot numbering system is not employed to identify individual eggs, containers of eggs, or egg products, record the alternative code system used, in accordance with § 590.411(c)(3);
(4) The date of disposal and quantity of restricted eggs, including inedible egg product or incubator reject product, sold or given away for animal food or other uses or otherwise disposed of, and to whom (including a complete address, unless a master list is maintained);
(5) The individual or composite (running tally) record of restricted egg sales to household consumers. Records should show number of dozens sold on a daily basis. The name and address of the consumer is not required;
(6) The date of production and quantity of egg products delivered or sold, and to whom (including a complete address, unless a master list is maintained);
(7) The date of receipt and quantity of egg products purchased or received, and from whom (including a complete address, unless a master list is maintained);
(8) The production records by categories of eggs such as graded eggs, nest-run eggs, dirties, checks, etc.; bills of sale, inventories, receipts, shipments, shippers, receivers, dates of shipment and receipt, carrier names, etc.
(b) All records required to be maintained by this section must be made available to an authorized representative of the Secretary for official review and copying.
(c) Records of all labeling, along with the product formulation and processing procedures as prescribed in §§ 590.410 through 590.412, must be kept by every person processing, except processors exempted under § 590.100.
[85 FR 68675, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.220
Information and assistance to be furnished to inspectors.
When inspection service is performed at any plant, the plant operator shall furnish the inspector such information and assistance as may be required for the performance of inspection functions, preparing certificates, reports, and for other official duties.

# Administrative Detention
§ 590.240
Detaining product.
Whenever any eggs or egg products subject to the Act are found by any authorized representative of the Secretary upon any premises, and there is reason to believe that they are or have been processed, bought, sold, possessed, used, transported, or offered or received for sale or transportation in violation of the Act or the regulations in this part, or that they are in any other way in violation of the Act, such articles may be detained by such representative for a period not to exceed 20 days, as more fully provided in section 19 of the Act. A detention tag or other similar device shall be used to identify detained product, and the custodian or owner shall be given a written notice of such detention. Only authorized representatives of the Secretary shall affix or remove detention identification. The provisions of this section shall in no way derogate from authority for condemnation or seizure conferred by other provisions of the Act, the regulations in this part, or other laws.
[37 FR 6658, Apr. 1, 1972. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 63 FR 69972, Dec. 17, 1998]

# Appeal of an Inspection or Decision
§ 590.300
Appeal inspections.
Any person receiving inspection service may, if dissatisfied with any decision or action of an inspector or other Agency employee relating to any inspection, file an appeal from such decision or action in accordance with 9 CFR 500.9.
[87 FR 63424, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 590.310
Appeal inspections; how made.
Any appeal from the inspection decision by inspection program personnel must be made to the immediate supervisor having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the appeal in accordance with 9 CFR 500.9.
[87 FR 63424, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 590.320
How to file an appeal inspection or decision review.
The request for an appeal inspection or review of inspection program personnel's decision may be made orally or in writing. If made orally, written confirmation may be required. The applicant must clearly identify the product involved, the decision being appealed, and the reasons for requesting the appeal.
[85 FR 68676, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.330
When an application for an appeal inspection may be refused.
When it appears to the official with whom an appeal request is filed that the reasons given in the request are frivolous or not substantial, or that
the condition of the product has undergone a material change since the original inspection, or that the original lot has changed in some manner, or the Act or the regulations in this part have not been complied with, the applicant's request for the appeal inspection may be refused. In such case, the applicant shall be promptly notified of the reason(s) for such refusal.
[60 FR 49169, Sept. 21, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 69972, Dec. 17, 1998]
§ 590.340
Who must perform the appeal inspection or decision review.
An appeal inspection or review of inspection program personnel's decisions, as requested in § 590.310, must be performed by inspection program personnel of FSIS other than the one who made the initial decision.
[85 FR 68676, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.350
Appeal samples.
A condition appeal sample will consist of product taken from the original sample containers plus an equal number of containers selected at random. A condition appeal cannot be made unless all originally sampled containers are available.
[85 FR 68676, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Certificates
§ 590.400
Form of certificates.
All certificates shall be issued on forms approved by the Administrator.
§ 590.402
Egg products inspection certificates.
(a) Upon request of the applicant or the Service, any inspector is authorized to issue an egg products inspection certificate with respect to any lot of egg products inspected by him. In addition, an inspector is authorized to issue an inspection certificate covering product inspected in whole or in part by another inspector when the inspector has knowledge that the product is eligible for certification based on personal examination of the product or official inspection records.
(b) Each egg products inspection certificate shall show the name and address of the processor, the class and quantity of the egg products covered by such certificate, such shipping marks as are necessary to identify such products, all pertinent information concerning the wholesomeness thereof, and such other information as the Administrator may prescribe or approve.
§ 590.404
Erasures or alterations made on official certificates.
Erasures or alterations shall be initialed by the issuing inspector on the original certificate and any copy thereof. All certificates made useless through clerical error or otherwise and all certificates canceled for whatever cause shall be voided and initialed and the original and all other copies shall be forwarded as prescribed by the Administrator.
§ 590.406
Disposition of official certificates.
The original and up to two copies of each official certificate shall be issued to the applicant or person designated by him. Other copies shall be filed and retained in accordance with the disposition schedule for inspection program records.
§ 590.407
Export certification and marking of containers with export inspection mark.
(a) Exporters must apply for export certification of inspected and passed products shipped to any foreign country. Exporters may apply for an export certificate using a paper or electronic application. FSIS will assess exporters that submit an electronic application the charge in § 592.500(d) of this chapter.
(b) FSIS will issue only one certificate for each consignment, except in the case of error in the certificate or loss of the certificate originally issued. A request for a replacement certificate, except in the case of a lost certificate, must be accompanied by the original certificate. The new certificate will carry the following statement: “Issued in replacement of ______”, with the numbers of the certificates that have been superseded.
(c) FSIS will deliver a copy of the export certificate to the person who requested such certificate or his agent.
Such persons may duplicate the certificate as required in connection with the exportation of the product.
(d) FSIS will retain a copy of the certificate.
(e)(1) When authorized by inspection personnel, establishments must mark the outside container of any inspected and passed egg products destined for export, the securely enclosed pallet within the consignment, or closed means of conveyance transporting the consignment, with a mark that contains a unique identifier that links the consignment to the export certificate or an official mark with the following form:
1
1
The number “1234567” is given as an example only. The number on the export certificate will correspond to the printed number on the export certificate.
ER29JN16.017
(2) Ship stores, small quantities exclusively for the personal use of the consignee and not for sale or distribution, and shipments by and for the U.S. Armed Forces, are exempt from the requirements of this section.
(f) Exporters may request inspection personnel to issue certificates for export consignments of product of official establishments not under their supervision, provided the consignments are first identified as having been “U.S. inspected and passed,” are found to be neither adulterated nor misbranded, and are marked as required by paragraph (e) of this section.
[81 FR 42235, June 29, 2016]

# Identifying and Marking Product
§ 590.410
Egg products required to be labeled.
(a)(1) Packaged egg products that require special handling to maintain their wholesome condition must have the statement “Keep Refrigerated,” “Keep Frozen,” “Perishable Keep Under Refrigeration,” or such similar statement prominently displayed on the principal display panel.
(2) Egg products that are distributed frozen and thawed prior to or during display for sale at retail must bear the statement “Keep Frozen” on the shipping container. Consumer-sized containers for such egg products must bear the statement “Previously Handled Frozen for Your Protection, Refreeze or Keep Refrigerated.”
(3) The labels of packages of egg products produced from shell eggs that have been treated with ionizing radiation must reflect that treatment in the ingredient statement on the finished product labeling.
(b) Containers, portable tanks, and bulk shipments of edible egg products produced in official plants must be labeled in accordance with §§ 590.411 through 590.415 and must bear the official identification shown in Figure 1 of § 590.413.
(c) Bulk shipments of unpasteurized egg products and microbial pathogen-positive egg products produced in official plants must bear a label containing the words “date of loading,” followed by a suitable space in which the date the container, tanker truck, or portable tank is loaded must be inserted. The label must be conspicuously located and printed and affixed on material that cannot be detached or effaced due to exposure to weather. Before the truck or tank is removed from the place where it is unloaded, the carrier must remove or obliterate the label. Such shipments must also bear the official identification shown in Figure 2 of § 590.415.
[85 FR 68676, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.411
Label approval.
(a) All official plants, including official plants certified under a foreign inspection system in accordance with § 590.910, must comply with the requirements contained in § 412.1 of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in this part.
(b) For the purposes of § 412.1 of this chapter, an official establishment or establishment certified under a foreign inspection system includes an official plant.
(c) Labels, containers, or packaging materials of egg products must show the following information, as applicable, on the principal display panel (except as otherwise permitted in this part), in accordance with the requirements of this part, or if applicable, 21 CFR 101.17(h):
(1) A statement showing by the common or usual names, if any, of the kinds of ingredients comprising the product. Formulas are to be expressed in terms of a liquid product except for product that is dry-blended. Also, for product to be dried, the label may show the ingredients in order of descending proportions by weight in the dried form. However, the formula submitted must include the percentage of ingredients in both liquid and dried form. If the product is comprised of two or more ingredients, such ingredients must be listed in the order of descending proportions by weight in the form in which the product is to be marketed (sold), except that ingredients in dried product (other than dry blended) may be listed in either liquid or dried form. When water (excluding that used to reconstitute dehydrated ingredients back to their normal composition) is added to a liquid or frozen egg product or to an ingredient of such products (in excess of the normal water content of that ingredient), the total amount of water added, including the water content of any cellulose or vegetable gums used, must be expressed as a percentage of the total product weight in the ingredient statement on the label;
(2) The name, address and zip code of the distributor; qualified by such terms as “distributed by,” or “distributors”;
(3) The lot number or an alternative code indicating the date of production, in accordance with § 590.200(a);
(4) The net contents;
(5) An official inspection symbol and the number of the official plant in which the product was processed under inspection as set forth in § 590.413;
(6) Egg products processed from edible eggs of turkeys, ducks, geese, or guineas must be clearly and distinctly labeled with the common or usual name of the product and indicating the type of eggs or egg products used in the product, e.g., “Frozen whole turkey eggs,” “Frozen whole chicken and turkey eggs.” Egg products labeled without qualifying words as to the type of egg used in the product must be produced only from the edible egg of the domesticated chicken.
(7) Egg products which are produced in an official plant from edible shell eggs of other than current production or from other egg products of shell eggs of other than current product must be clearly and distinctly labeled in close proximity to the common or usual name of the product, e.g., Manufactured from eggs of other than current production.”
(d) Liquid or frozen egg products identified as whole eggs and processed in other than natural proportions as broken from the shell must have a total egg solids content of 24.20 percent or greater.
(e) Nutrition information may be included on labels used to identify egg products, providing such labeling complies with the provisions of 21 CFR part 101, promulgated under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act. Since these regulations have different requirements for consumer-packaged products than for bulk packaged egg products not for sale or distribution to household consumers, label submission must be accompanied with information indicating whether the label covers consumer packaged or bulk packaged products. Nutrition labeling is required when nutrients, such as proteins, vitamins, and minerals are added to the product, or when a nutritional claim or information is presented on the labeling, except for the following, which are exempt from nutrition labeling requirements:
(1) Egg products shipped in bulk form for use solely in the manufacture of other food and not for distribution to household consumers in such bulk form or containers.
(2) Products containing an added vitamin, mineral, or protein, or for which a nutritional claim is made on the label, or in advertising, which is supplied for institutional food use only, provided that the manufacturer or distributor provides the required nutrition information directly to those institutions.
(3) Any nutrients included in the product solely for technological purposes may be declared solely in the ingredients statement, without complying with nutrition labeling, if the nutrient(s) is otherwise not referred to in labeling or in advertising. All labels showing nutrition information or claims are subject to review by the Food and Drug Administration prior to approval by the Department.
(f)(1) No label, container, or packaging material may contain any statement that is false or misleading. If the Administrator has reason to believe that a statement or formulation shows that an egg product is adulterated or misbranded, or that any labeling, including the size or form of any container in use or proposed for use, with respect to eggs or egg products, is false or misleading in any way, the Administrator may direct that such use be withdrawn unless the labeling or container is modified in such a manner as the Administrator may prescribe so that it will not be false or misleading, or the formulation of the product is altered in such a manner as the Administrator may prescribe so that it is not adulterated or would not cause misbranding.
(2) If the Administrator directs that the use of any label, container, or packaging material be withdrawn because it contains any statement that is false or misleading, an opportunity for a hearing will be provided in accordance with § 500.8(c) of this chapter.
[85 FR 68676, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.412
Approval of generic labels.
(a) All official plants, including official plants certified under a foreign inspection system in accordance with § 590.910, may comply with the requirements in § 412.2 of this chapter.
(b) For the purposes of § 412.2 of this chapter, an official establishment or establishment certified under a foreign inspection system includes an official plant.
[85 FR 68677, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.413
Form of official identification symbol and inspection mark.
The shield set forth in Figure 1 of this section containing the letters “USDA” must be the official identification symbol used in connection with egg products to denote that the official plant receives official inspection service. The inspection mark used on containers of edible egg products is set forth in Figure 1 of this section, except that the plant number may be preceded by the letter “G” in lieu of the word plant. The plant number may also be omitted from the official mark if applied on the container's principal display panel or other prominent location and preceded by the letter “G.”
76
76
The number “42” is given as an example only. The plant number of the official plant where the product was inspected must be shown on each label.
ER29OC20.000
[85 FR 68677, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.414
Products bearing the official inspection mark.
Egg products which are permitted to bear the inspection mark shall be processed in an official plant from edible shell eggs or other edible egg products and may contain other edible ingredients. The official mark shall be printed or lithographed and applied as a part of the principal display panel of the container but shall not be applied to a detachable cover.
§ 590.415
Use of other official identification.
All unpasteurized or microbial pathogen-positive egg products shipped from an official plant must be marked with the identification set forth in Figure 1 of this section. Such product must meet all requirements for egg products that are permitted to bear the official inspection mark shown in § 590.413, except for pasteurization, heat treatment, or other method of treatment sufficient to produce egg products that are edible without additional preparation to achieve food safety. Such product must not be released into consumer channels until it has been subjected to pasteurization, heat treatment, or other method of treatment sufficient to produce egg products that are edible without additional preparation to achieve food safety. After pasteurization or treatment, the product may bear the official inspection mark as shown in § 590.413.
77
77
The number “42” is given as an example only. The plant number of the official plant where the product was inspected must be shown on each label.
ER29OC20.001
[85 FR 68678, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.417
Unauthorized use or disposition of approved labels.
(a) Containers or labels which bear official identification approved for use pursuant to § 590.411 shall be used only for the purpose for which approved. Any unauthorized use or disposition of approved containers or labels which bear any official identification may result in cancellation of the approval and denial of the use of containers or labels bearing official identification and may subject such violator to the penalties and denial of the benefits of the Act;
(b) The use of simulations or imitations of any official identification by any person is prohibited;
(c) Upon termination of inspection service in an official plant pursuant to these regulations, all labels or packaging materials indicating product packed by the plant which bear official identification shall either be destroyed under the supervision of the Service or, if used in another location, modified in a manner acceptable to the Service before use.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 20059, May 8, 1975; 42 FR 2971, Jan. 14, 1977. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 49170, Sept. 21, 1995]
§ 590.418
Supervision of marking and packaging.
Affixing of official identification.
No official identification shall be, or caused to be affixed to or placed on any product or container except by an inspector or under the supervision of an inspector or other person authorized by the Administrator. All such products shall have been inspected in accordance with these regulations. The inspector shall have supervision over the use and handling of all material bearing any official identification.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 85 FR 68678, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.419
Reuse of containers bearing official identification prohibited.
The reuse, by any person, of containers bearing official identification is prohibited unless such identification is applicable in all respects to product being packed therein. In such instances, the container and label may be used provided the packaging is accomplished under the supervision of an inspector and the container is in compliance with § 590.504(k).
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 85 FR 68678, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Inspection, Reinspection, Condemnation, and Retention
§ 590.420
Inspection.
(a) Inspection shall be made, pursuant to the regulations in this part, of the processing of egg products in each official plant processing egg products for commerce, unless exempted under § 590.100. Inspections, certifications, or specification-type gradings, and other
inspections which may be requested by the official plant and are in addition to the normal inspection requirements and functions for the processing, production, or certification for a wholesome egg product under this part, shall be made pursuant to the voluntary egg products inspection regulations (part 592 of this chapter).
(b) Any food manufacturing establishment or institution which uses any eggs that do not meet the requirements of 21 U.S.C. 1044(a)(1) in the preparation of any articles for human food shall be deemed to be a plant processing egg products requiring inspection under the regulations in this part.
(c) Any product which is prepared under inspection in an official plant shall be inspected in such plant as often as the inspector deems necessary in order to ascertain if the product is unadulterated, wholesome, properly labeled, and fit for human food at the time it leaves the plant. Upon any such inspection, if any product or portion thereof is found to be adulterated, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit for human food, such product or portion thereof shall be condemned and shall receive such treatment as provided in § 590.422.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 85 FR 68678, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.422
Condemnation.
Eggs and egg products found to be adulterated at official plants shall be condemned and, if no appeal be taken from such determination of condemnation, such articles shall be destroyed for human food purposes under the supervision of an inspector:
Provided,
That articles which may by reprocessing be made not adulterated need not be condemned and destroyed if so reprocessed under the supervision of an inspector and thereafter found to be not adulterated. If an appeal is requested, the eggs or egg products shall be appropriately marked and segregated pending completion of an appeal inspection.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 85 FR 68679, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.424
Reinspection.
(a) No egg product may be brought into an official plant except as provided in § 590.430(b) unless it has been prepared and handled in accordance with these regulations, and the container of such product is marked so as to identify the article as so inspected in accordance with this part.
(b) All egg products brought into any official plant shall be identified by the operator of the official plant at the time of receipt at the official plant and shall be subject to reinspection by inspection program personnel at the official plant in such manner and at such times as may be deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the regulations in this part. Upon reinspection, if any such product or portion of it is found to be unsound, unwholesome, adulterated, or otherwise unfit for human food, such product or portion shall be condemned and shall receive such treatment as provided in § 590.422, and shall, in the case of other products, be disposed of according to applicable law.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 85 FR 68679, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.426
Retention.
Retention tags or other devices and methods as may be approved by the Administrator shall be used for the identification and control of products which are not in compliance with the regulations or are held for further examination, and any equipment, utensils, rooms or compartments which are found to be unclean or otherwise in violation of the regulations. No product, equipment, utensil, room, or compartment shall be released for use until it has been made acceptable. Such identification shall not be removed by anyone other than an inspector.

# Entry of Material Into Official Egg Products Plants
§ 590.430
Limitation on entry of material.
(a) The Administrator shall limit the entry of eggs and egg products and other materials into official plants under such conditions as he may prescribe to assure that allowing the entry of such articles will be consistent
with the purposes of the Act and these regulations.
(b) Inedible egg products may be brought into an official plant for storage, processing, and reshipment provided they are handled in such a manner that adequate segregation and inventory controls are maintained at all times. The processing of inedible egg products must be done under conditions that will not affect the processing of edible products, such as processing in separate areas or at times when no edible products are being processed. If the same equipment or areas are used to process both inedible and edible eggs, then the equipment and processing areas used to process inedible eggs must be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized prior to processing any edible egg products.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 20059, May 8, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 85 FR 68679, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.435
Use of food ingredients and approval of materials.
(a)(1) No substance which is a “food additive” as defined under 21 U.S.C. 321(s), including sources of radiation, may be used in the processing of egg products unless this use is authorized under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(2) No substance which is intended to impart color in any egg product may be used unless such use is authorized under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(3) Substances and ingredients used in the processing of egg products capable of use as human food must be clean, wholesome, and unadulterated.
(b) Substances permitted for use in egg products in subsection(a) will be permitted for such use under this chapter, subject to declaration requirements in § 424.22(c) of this chapter and § 590.411, unless precluded from such use or further restricted in this chapter. Such substances must be safe and effective under conditions of use and not result in the adulteration of product. The Administrator may require, in addition to listing the ingredients, a declaration of the additive and the purpose of its use.
(c) Substances to be used in the processing of egg products must be safe under the conditions of their intended use and in amounts sufficient to accomplish their intended purpose. Such substances may not promote deception or cause the product to be otherwise adulterated or unwholesome. Scientific data showing the additive meets the above specified criteria must be maintained and made available to FSIS inspection program personnel.
[85 FR 68679, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.440
Processing ova.
(a) Ova from slaughtered poultry may be brought into the official plant for processing:
Provided,
That the ova is from wholesome poultry inspected in a plant operating under the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451
et seq.
) and such product is harvested in a sanitary manner, properly handled, cooled, packaged and labeled:
And provided further,
That such product is wholesome and the containers of such product bear official identification which assures the provisions of this paragraph have been met.
(b) The ova and products containing ova shall be processed, cooled, and pasteurized in the official plant in the same manner as liquid, frozen, or dried yolk products.
(c) All products containing ova must be labeled in accordance with § 590.411.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 85 FR 68679, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Sanitary, Processing, and Facility Requirements
§ 590.504
General operating procedures.
(a) Operations involving the processing, storing, and handling of eggs, ingredients, and egg products must be done in a sanitary manner.
(b)(1) Eggs and egg products are subject to inspection in each official plant processing egg products for commerce.
(2) Any eggs and egg products not processed in accordance with the regulations in this part or part 591 or that are not otherwise fit for human food must be removed and segregated.
(c)(1) All loss and inedible eggs or inedible egg products must be placed in a container clearly labeled “inedible”
and containing a sufficient amount of denaturant or decharacterant, such as an FDA-approved color additive, suspended in the product. Eggs must be crushed and the substance dispersed through the product in amounts sufficient to give the product a distinctive appearance or odor. Inedible product may be held in containers clearly labeled “inedible” which do not contain a denaturant as long as such inedible product is properly packaged, labeled and segregated, and inventory controls are maintained. Such inedible product must be denatured or decharacterized before being shipped from a facility.
(2) Undenatured egg products or inedible egg products that are not decharacterized may be shipped from an official plant for industrial use or animal food, provided that it is properly packaged, labeled, and segregated, and inventory controls are maintained.
(d)(1) Egg products must be processed to meet the standard set out in § 590.570.
(2) Unpasteurized or microbial pathogen-positive egg products may be shipped from an official plant to another official plant only when they are to be pasteurized, heat treated, or treated using other methods of treatment sufficient to produce egg products that are edible without additional preparation to achieve food safety in the second official plant. Official plants must maintain control of shipments of unpasteurized or microbial pathogen-positive egg products shipped from one official plant to another official plant for pasteurization or treatment. Shipping plants must seal such shipments in cars or trucks and label them in accordance with § 590.410(c). Containers of unpasteurized or microbial pathogen-positive egg product must be marked with the identification mark shown in Figure 2 of § 590.415.
(e) Inspection program personnel may allow an official plant to move egg products that have been sampled and analyzed for Salmonella, or for any other reason, before receiving the test results, if they do not suspect noncompliance by the plant with any provisions of this part. The official plant must maintain control of the products represented by the sample pending the results.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 6658, Apr. 1, 1972; 40 FR 20059, May 8, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982; 60 FR 49170, Sept. 21, 1995; 85 FR 81341, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 590.508
Candling and transfer-room operations.
Eggs must be handled in a manner that minimizes sweating prior to breaking or processing.
§ 590.510
Classifications of shell eggs used in the processing of egg products.
(a) The eggs must be sorted and classified into the following categories:
(1) Eggs listed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Dirty.
(3) Leakers as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4) Eggs from other than chicken; duck, turkey, guinea, and goose eggs.
(5) Other eggs—satisfactory for use as breaking stock.
(b) Shell eggs having strong odors or eggs received in cases having strong odors shall be candled and broken separately to determine their acceptability.
(c) Shell eggs, when presented for breaking, shall be of edible interior quality and the shell shall be sound and free of adhering dirt and foreign material, except that:
(1) When presented for breaking, eggs must have an edible interior quality and the shell must be sound and free of adhering dirt and foreign material. However, checks and eggs with a portion of the shell missing may be used when the shell is free of adhering dirt and foreign material and the shell membranes are not ruptured.
(2) Eggs with clean shells which are damaged in candling and/or transfer and have a portion of the shell and shell membranes missing may be used only when the yolk is unbroken and the contents of the egg are not exuding over the outside shell. Such eggs shall be placed in leaker trays and be broken promptly.
(3) Eggs with meat or blood spots may be used if the spots are removed.
(d) All loss or inedible eggs must be placed in a designated container and handled as required in § 590.504(c). Eggs extensively damaged during breaking, whether not completely cracked open mechanically or in the movement of trays of eligible eggs for hand breaking, must be broken promptly. For the purpose of this section and § 590.522, inedible and loss eggs include crusted yolks, filthy and decomposed eggs, and the following:
(1) Any egg with visible foreign matter other than removable blood and meat spots in the egg meat.
(2) Any egg with a portion of the shell and shell membranes missing and with egg meat adhering to or in contact with the outside of the shell.
(3) Any egg with dirt or foreign material adhering to the shell and with cracks in the shell and shell membranes.
(4) Liquid egg recovered from shell egg containers and leaker trays.
(5) Open leakers made in the washing operation.
(6) Any egg which shows evidence that the contents are or have been exuding prior to transfer from the case.
(e) Incubator reject eggs shall not be brought into the official plant.
[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 20059, May 8, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; 85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.516
Cleaning of eggs prior to packaging, breaking, or pasteurizing.
(a) All eggs, except as provided in § 590.801, must be clean prior to packaging, breaking, or pasteurizing. If a sanitizer is used, it must be used in accordance with FDA requirements for the intended use.
(b) Shell eggs shall be sufficiently dry at time of breaking to prevent contamination or adulteration of the liquid egg product from free moisture on the shell.
[60 FR 49170, Sept. 21, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.522
Egg products processing room operations.
Each egg used in processed egg products must be broken in a sanitary manner and examined to ensure that the contents are acceptable for human consumption.
[85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.534
Freezing facilities.
Freezing rooms, either on or off the premises, must be capable of solidly freezing, or reducing to a temperature of 10 °F or lower, all liquid egg products.
[85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.570
Control of pathogens in pasteurized egg products.
Pasteurized egg products must be produced to be edible without additional preparation to achieve food safety and may receive additional preparation for palatability or aesthetic, epicurean, gastronomic, or culinary purposes. Pasteurized egg products are not required to bear a safe-handling instruction or other labeling that directs that the product must be cooked or otherwise treated for safety.
[85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020; 85 FR 81341, Dec. 16, 2020]

# Laboratory
§ 590.580
Pathogen reduction standards testing.
(a) Official plants must test to determine that the production of egg products is in compliance with the Act and the egg products inspection regulations.
(b) To ensure adequate pasteurization:
(1) Pasteurized liquid, frozen, and dried egg products, and heat treated dried egg whites must be sampled and analyzed for the presence of
Salmonella
spp. Such testing by the official plant must be performed in a manner sufficient such that it is possible for the official plant to verify that the system is capable of eliminating
Salmonella
spp. at the time that the annual reassessment occurs, and as regularly as necessary between annual reassessments, to show that the system, when tested, is working.
(2) Samples must be analyzed for the presence of
Salmonella
spp. with such frequency and using such laboratory methods as is sufficient to ensure that
product is not adulterated. For each category of product, sampling should be conducted on a rotating basis.
(3) Samples must be drawn from the final packaged form.
(c) Results of all partial and completed analyses performed under paragraph (b) of this section must be provided to inspection program personnel promptly upon receipt by the official plant. Positive test results must be provided to inspection program personnel immediately upon receipt by the official plant.
[85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.590
Use of irradiated shell eggs to produce egg products.
Irradiated shell eggs used to produce pasteurized egg products must be used in conjunction with heat or another lethality treatment sufficient to produce egg products that are edible without additional preparation to achieve food safety. Unless otherwise approved by FDA, the irradiation treatment of the shell eggs must precede the heat or other lethality treatment applied to the egg products.

# Inspection and Disposition of Restricted Eggs
§ 590.700
Prohibition on disposition of restricted eggs.
(a) No person may buy, sell, or transport, or offer to buy or sell, or offer or receive for transportation in any business in commerce any restricted eggs capable of use as human food, except as authorized in §§ 590.100 or 590.720.
(b) No egg handler may possess with the intent to use, or use, any restricted eggs in the preparation of human food, except as provided in §§ 590.100 or 590.720.
[85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.720
Disposition of restricted eggs.
(a) Except as exempted in § 590.100, eggs classified as checks, dirts, incubator rejects, inedibles, leakers, or loss must be disposed of by one of the following methods at the point and time of segregation:
(1) Checks and dirts must be labeled in accordance with § 590.800 and shipped to an official plant for segregation and processing. Inedible and loss eggs must not be intermingled in the same container with checks and dirts.
(2) By destruction in a manner that clearly identifies the products as being inedible and not for human consumption, such as crushing and denaturing or decharacterizing in accordance with § 590.504(c)(1). The products must also be identified as “Inedible Egg Product-Not To Be Used As Human Food.”
(3) Processing for industrial use or for animal food. Such products must be handled in accordance with § 590.504(c) and identified as provided in §§ 590.840 and 590.860, or properly handled in a manner that clearly identifies the products as being inedible and not for human consumption and does not adulterate egg product intended for human consumption.
(4) By coloring the shells of loss and inedible eggs with a sufficient amount of an FDA-approved color additive to give a distinct appearance or applying a substance that will penetrate the shell and decharacterize the contents of the egg. However, lots of eggs containing significant percentages of eggs having small to medium blood spots or meat spots, but no other types of loss or inedible eggs, may be shipped directly to official plants, provided they are conspicuously labeled with the name and address of the shipper and the wording “Spots—For Processing Only In Official Egg Products Plants.”
(5) Incubator rejects must be broken or crushed and denatured or decharacterized in accordance with § 590.504(c)(1) and labeled as required in §§ 590.840 and 590.860.
(b) Eggs that are packed for the ultimate consumer and have been found to exceed the tolerance for restricted eggs permitted in the official standards for U.S. Consumer Grade B but have not been shipped for retail sale must be identified as required in §§ 590.800 and 590.860 and must be shipped directly or indirectly:
(1) To an official plant for proper segregation and processing; or
(2) Be re-graded so that they comply with the official standards; or
(3) Used as other than human food.
(c) Records must be maintained as provided in § 590.200 to ensure proper disposition.
[85 FR 68680, Oct. 29, 2020]

# Identification of Restricted Eggs or Egg Products Not Intended for Human Consumption
§ 590.800
Identification of restricted eggs.
The shipping container of restricted eggs shall be determined to be satisfactorily identified if such container bears the packer's name and address, the quality of the eggs in the container (e.g., dirties, checks, inedibles, or loss), or the statement “Restricted Eggs—For Processing Only In An Official USDA Egg Products Plant,” for checks or dirties, or “Restricted Eggs—Not To Be Used As Human Food,” for inedibles, loss, and incubator rejects, or “Restricted Eggs—To Be Regraded” for graded eggs which contain more restricted eggs than are allowed in the official standards for U.S. Consumer Grade B shell eggs. The size of the letters of the identification wording shall be as required in § 590.860.
[40 FR 20060, May 8, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 49171, Sept. 21, 1995; 63 FR 69972, Dec. 17, 1998]
§ 590.801
Nest-run or washed ungraded eggs.
Nest-run or washed ungraded eggs are exempt from the labeling provisions in § 590.800. However, when such eggs are sold to consumers, they may not exceed the tolerance for restricted eggs for U.S. Consumer Grade B shell eggs.
[85 FR 68681, Oct. 29, 2020]
§ 590.840
Identification of inedible, unwholesome, or adulterated egg products.
All inedible, unwholesome, or adulterated egg products shall be identified with the name and address of the processor, the words “Inedible Egg Products—Not To Be Used as Human Food.”
§ 590.860
Identification wording.
The letters of the identification wording shall be legible and conspicuous.
[37 FR 6659, Apr. 1, 1972. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]

# Subpart B—Imports

# Source:
85 FR 68681, Oct. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 590.900
Definitions; requirements for importation into the United States.
(a) When used in this subpart, the following terms will be construed to mean:
(1)
Import (Imported).
To bring within the territorial limits of the United States, whether that arrival is accomplished by land, air, or water.
(2)
Offer(ed) for entry.
The point at which the importer presents the imported product for reinspection.
(3)
Entry (entered)
means the point at which imported product offered for entry receives reinspection and is marked with the official mark of inspection, as required by § 590.940.
(4)
Official Import Inspection Establishment.
This term means any establishment, other than an official establishment as defined in § 301.2 of this chapter, where inspections are authorized to be conducted as prescribed in § 590.925.
(b) No egg products may be imported into the United States unless they are healthful, wholesome, fit for human food, not adulterated, and contain no dye, chemical, preservative, or ingredient which renders them unhealthful, unwholesome, unadulterated, or unfit for human food. Such products must also comply with the regulations prescribed in this subpart to ensure that they adhere to the standards provided for in the Act. The provisions of this subpart will apply to these products only if they are capable for use as human food.
(c) Approval for Federal import inspection must be in accordance with §§ 590.140 through 590.149.
(d) Egg products may be imported only if they are processed solely in the countries listed in § 590.910(b).
§ 590.901
Egg products offered for entry and entered to be handled and transported as domestic; entry into official plants; transportation.
(a) All egg products, after entry into the United States in compliance with this subpart, will be deemed and treated and, except as provided in §§ 590.935 and 590.960, will be handled and transported as domestic product, and will be subject to the applicable provisions of this part and to the provisions of the Egg Products Inspection Act and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
(b) Imported egg products entered in accordance with this subpart may, subject to the provisions of the regulations, be taken into official plants and be mixed with or added to egg products that are inspected and passed or exempted from inspection in such plants.
(c) Imported egg products that have been inspected and passed under this subpart may be transported in commerce only upon compliance with the applicable regulations.
§ 590.905
Importation of restricted eggs.
(a) No containers of restricted eggs other than checks or dirties will be imported into the United States. The shipping containers of such eggs shall be identified with the name, address, and country of origin of the exporter, and the date of pack and the quality of the eggs (e.g., checks or dirties) preceded by the word “Imported” or the statement “Imported Restricted Eggs—For Processing Only In An Official USDA Plant,” or “Restricted Eggs—Not To Be Used As Human Food.” Such identification shall be legible and conspicuous.
(b) For properly sealed and certified shipments of shell eggs for breaking at an official egg products plant, the containers need not be labeled, provided that the shipment is segregated and controlled upon arrival at the destination breaking plant.
§ 590.910
Eligibility of foreign countries for importation of egg products into the United States.
(a) Whenever it is determined by the Administrator that the system of egg products inspection maintained by any foreign country is such that the egg products produced in such country are processed, labeled, and packaged in accordance with, and otherwise comply with, the standards of the Act and these regulations including, but not limited to the same sanitary, processing, facility requirements, and Government inspection as required in §§ 590.500 through 590.580 applicable to inspected articles produced within the United States, notice of that fact will be given according to paragraph (b) of this section. Thereafter, egg products from such countries shall be eligible for importation into the United States subject to the provisions of this part and other applicable laws and regulations. Such product must meet, to the extent applicable, the same standards and requirements that apply to comparable domestic product as set forth in these regulations. Egg products from foreign countries not deemed eligible in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section are not eligible for importation into the United States, except as provided by § 590.960. In determining if the inspection system of a foreign country is the equivalent of the system maintained in the United States, the Administrator shall review the inspection regulations of the foreign country and make a survey to determine the manner in which the inspection systems are administered within the foreign country. After approval of the inspection system of a foreign country, the Administrator may, as often and to the extent deemed necessary, authorize representatives of the Department to review the system to determine that it is maintained in such a manner as to be the equivalent of the system maintained by the United States.
(b) A list of countries eligible to export egg products to the United States is maintained at
http://www.fsis.usda.gov/importlibrary.
§ 590.915
Imported products; foreign inspection certificates required.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 590.960 and 590.965, each consignment imported into the United States must have an electronic foreign inspection certification or a paper foreign inspection certificate issued by an official of the foreign government agency responsible
for the inspection and certification of the product.
(b) An official of the foreign government agency must certify that any product described on any official certificate was produced in accordance with the regulatory requirements of § 590.910.
(c) The electronic foreign inspection certification must be in English, be transmitted directly to FSIS before the product's arrival at the official import inspection establishment and be available to inspection program personnel.
(d) The paper foreign inspection certificate must accompany each consignment; be submitted to inspection program personnel at the official import inspection establishment; be in English; and bear the official seal of the foreign government responsible for the inspection of the product, and the name, title, and signature of the official authorized to issue the inspection certificates for products imported into the United States.
(e) The electronic foreign inspection certification and paper foreign inspection certificate must contain:
(1) The date;
(2) The foreign country of export and the producing foreign establishment number;
(3) The species used to produce the product and the source country and foreign establishment number, if the source materials originate from a country other than the exporting country;
(4) The product's description including the process category, the product category, and the product group;
(5) The name and address of the importer or consignee;
(6) The name and address of the exporter or consignor;
(7) The number of units (pieces or containers) and the shipping or identification mark on the units;
(8) The net weight of each lot; and
(9) Any additional information the Administrator requests to determine whether the product is eligible to be imported into the United States.
§ 590.920
Import inspection application.
(a) Applicants must submit an import inspection application to apply for the inspection of any product offered for entry. Applicants may apply for inspection using a paper or electronic application form.
(b) Import inspection applications for each consignment must be submitted (electronically or on paper) to FSIS in advance of the shipment's arrival at the official import establishment where the product will be reinspected, but no later than when the entry is filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(c) The provisions of this section do not apply to products that are exempted from inspection by §§ 590.960 and 590.965.
§ 590.925
Inspection of egg products offered for entry.
(a)(1) Except as provided in §§ 590.960 and 590.965 and paragraph (b) of this section, egg products offered for entry from any foreign country must be reinspected at an official import inspection establishment or official plant by inspection program personnel before they may be allowed entry into the United States.
(2) Every lot of product must routinely be given visual reinspection by inspection program personnel for appearance and condition and be checked for certification and label compliance as provided in §§ 590.915, 590.950, and 590.955.
(3) Inspection program personnel must consult the electronic inspection system for reinspection instructions. The electronic inspection system will assign reinspection levels and procedures based on established sampling plans and established product and plant history.
(b) Inspection program personnel may take, without cost to the United States, from each consignment of egg product offered for entry, such samples of the products as are deemed necessary to determine the eligibility of the products for entry into commerce of the United States.
§ 590.930
Egg products offered for entry, retention in customs custody; delivery under bond; movement prior to inspection; handling; equipment and assistance.
(a) No egg products required by this subpart to be inspected will be released
from customs custody prior to required inspections, but such product may be delivered to the importer, or his agent, prior to inspection, if the importer furnishes a bond, in a form prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, on the condition that the product must be returned, if demanded, to the collector of the port where the product was offered for clearance through customs.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, no product required by this subpart to be inspected will be moved prior to inspection from the port of arrival where first unloaded, and if arriving by water from the wharf where first unloaded at such port, to any place other than the place designated in accordance with this part as the place where the product must be inspected; and no product will be conveyed in any manner other than in compliance with this subpart.
(c) The importer, or his agent, must furnish such equipment and must provide such assistance for handling and inspecting, where applicable, egg products offered for entry as the program inspector may require.
(d) Official import inspection establishments must provide buildings and equipment that meet the sanitation requirements contained in part 416 of this chapter.
§ 590.935
Means of conveyance and equipment used in handling egg products offered for entry to be maintained in sanitary condition.
(a) Compartments of means of conveyance transporting any egg products to the United States, and all chutes, platforms, racks, tables, tools, utensils, and all other devices used in moving and handling any egg products offered for entry into the United States, must be maintained in accordance with part 416.4 of this chapter.
(b) All conveyances containing imported liquid egg products must be sealed by inspection authorities in the exporting country. Seals may be broken at U.S. port-of-entry for purposes of inspection by program inspectors or customs officers.
§ 590.940
Identification of egg products offered for entry; official import inspection marks and devices.
(a) Except for products offered for entry from Canada, egg products that upon reinspection are found to be acceptable for entry into the United States must be identified as “U.S. Inspected and Passed” product. The official inspection legend shown in paragraph (b) of this section will identify product only after completion of official import inspection and product acceptance.
(b) The official mark for identifying egg products offered for entry as “U.S. Inspected and Passed” must be in the following form, and any device approved by the Administrator for applying such mark must be an official device.
1
1
The number “I-38” is given as an example only. The plant number of the official plant, facility, or official import inspection establishment where the product was inspected must be shown on each stamp impression.
ER29OC20.002
(c) Owners or operators of plants, other than official plants, who want to have import inspections made at their plants, must apply to the Administrator for approval of their establishments for such purpose. Application must be made on a form furnished by the Program, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC, and must include all information called for by that form.
(d) No brand manufacturer or other person will cast or otherwise make, without an official certificate issued by inspection program personnel, a brand or other marking device containing an official inspection legend, or simulation thereof, as shown in § 590.940(b).
(e) The inspection legend may be placed on containers of product before completion of the official import inspection if the containers are being inspected by inspection program personnel who report directly to a program supervisor, the product is not required to be held at the official import inspection establishment pending receipt of laboratory test results, and a written procedure for the controlled stamping, submitted by the official import inspection establishment and approved by the Food Safety and Inspection Service, is on file at the import inspection location where the inspection is to be performed.
(f)(1) The written procedure for the controlled release and identification of product should be in the form of a letter and must include the following:
(i) That stamping under this subpart is limited to those lots of product that can be inspected on the day that certificates for the product are examined;
(ii) That all products that have been pre-stamped will be stored in the facility where the import inspection will occur;
(iii) That inspection marks applied under this part will be removed from any lot of product subsequently refused entry on the day the product is rejected; and
(iv) That the establishment will maintain a daily stamping log containing the following information for each lot of product: The date of inspection, the country of origin, the foreign establishment number, the product name, the number of units, the shipping container marks and foreign inspection certificate number covering the product to be inspected. The daily log must be retained by the establishment in accordance with § 590.200.
(2) An establishment's controlled program privilege may be cancelled orally or in writing by the inspector who is supervising its enforcement whenever the inspector finds that the establishment has failed to comply with the provisions of this subpart or any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. If the cancellation is oral, the decision and the reasons for it must be confirmed in writing, as promptly as circumstances
allow. Any person whose controlled pre-stamping program privilege has been cancelled may appeal the decision to the Administrator, in writing, within ten (10) days after receiving written notification of the cancellation. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the controlled program was wrongfully cancelled. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for such decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing must be held to resolve such conflict. Rules of practice concerning such a hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. The cancellation of the controlled pre-stamping privilege will be in effect until there is a final determination of the preceding.
§ 590.945
Egg products offered for entry; reporting of findings to customs; handling of articles refused entry; appeals, how made; denaturing procedures.
(a)(1) Inspection program personnel must report their findings as to any product that has been inspected in accordance with this subpart to the Director of Customs at the original port of entry where the same is offered for clearance through Customs inspection.
(2) When product is refused entry into the United States, the official mark to be applied to the product refused entry must be in the following form:
ER29OC20.003
(3) When product has been identified as “U.S. Refused Entry,” inspection program personnel must request the Director of Customs to refuse admission of such product and to direct that it be exported by the owner or importer within the time specified in this section, unless the owner or importer, within the specified time, causes it to be destroyed by disposing of it under the supervision of program inspectors so that the product can no longer be used as human food, or by converting it to animal food uses, if permitted by the Food and Drug Administration. The owner or importer of the refused entry product must not transfer legal title to such product, except to a foreign importer for direct and immediate exportation, or to an end user, e.g., an animal food manufacturer or a renderer, for destruction for human food purposes. “Refused entry” product must be delivered to and used by the manufacturer or renderer within the 45-day time limit provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Even if such title is illegally transferred, the subsequent purchaser will still be required to export the product or have it destroyed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(4) The owner or importer will have 45 days after notice is given by FSIS to the Director of Customs at the original port of entry to take the action required in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for “refused entry” product. An extension beyond the 45-day period may be granted by the Administrator when extreme circumstances warrant
it, e.g., a dock workers' strike or an unforeseeable vessel delay.
(5) If the owner or importer fails to take the required action within the time specified under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Department will take such actions as may be necessary to effectuate its order to have the product destroyed for human food purposes. The Department will seek court costs and fees, storage, and proper expenses in the appropriate forum.
(6) No egg product that has been refused entry and exported to another country pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section may be returned to the United States under any circumstances. Any such product so returned to the United States will be subject to administrative detention in accordance with section 1048 of the Act and seizure and condemnation in accordance with section 1049 of the Act.
(7) Egg products that have been refused entry solely because of misbranding may be brought into compliance with the requirements of this chapter under the supervision of an authorized representative of the Administrator.
(b) Upon the request of the Director of Customs at the port where an egg product is offered for clearance through the customs, the importer of the product must, at the importer's own expense, immediately return to the Director any product that has been delivered to the importer under this subpart and subsequently designated “U.S. Refused Entry” or found in any request not to comply with the requirements in this part.
(c) Except as provided in § 590.930(a) or (b), no person will remove or cause to be removed from any place designated as the place of inspection of egg products that the regulations in this part require to be identified in any way, unless the same has been clearly and legibly identified in compliance with this part.
(d) Any person receiving inspection services may, if dissatisfied with any decision of a program inspector relating to any inspection, file an appeal from such decision. Any such appeal from a decision of a program inspector must be made to the inspector's immediate supervisor having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the appeal, and such supervisor must determine whether the inspector's decision was correct. Review of such an appeal determination, when requested, must be made by the immediate supervisor of the Department employee making the appeal determination. The egg products involved in any appeal must be identified by U.S. retained tags and segregated in a manner approved by the inspector pending completion of an appeal inspection.
(e) All loss or inedible eggs, or inedible egg products must be disposed of in accordance with § 590.504(c)(1).
§ 590.950
Labeling of immediate containers of egg products offered for entry.
(a) Immediate containers of product offered for entry into the United States must bear a label, printed in English, showing:
(1) The name of the product;
(2) The name of the country of origin of the product, and for consumer packaged products, preceded by the words “Product of,” which statement must appear immediately under the name of the product;
(3) [Reserved];
(4) The word “Ingredients” followed by a list of the ingredients in order of descending proportions by weight, if applicable,;
(5) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor, qualified by a phrase which reveals the connection that such person has with the product;
(6) An accurate statement of the quantity;
(7) The inspection mark of the country of origin;
(8) The date of production and the plant number of the plant at which the egg products were processed or packed.
(b) For properly sealed and certified shipments of shell eggs for breaking at an official plant, the immediate containers need not be labeled, provided that the shipment is segregated and controlled upon arrival at the destination breaking plant.
(c) The labels must not be false or misleading in any respect.
§ 590.955
Labeling of shipping containers of egg products offered for entry.
Shipping containers of imported egg products are required to bear in a prominent and legible manner the name of the product, the name of the country of origin, the foreign inspection system plant number of the plant in which the product was processed, shipping or identification marks, production codes, and the inspection mark of the country or origin. Labeling on shipping containers must be examined at the time of inspection in the United States and if found to be false or misleading, the product must be refused entry.
§ 590.956
Relabeling of imported egg products.
(a) Egg products eligible for importation may be relabeled with an approved label under the supervision of an inspector at an official plant or official import inspection establishment. The new label for such product must indicate the country of origin, except for egg products that are processed (repasteurized or, in the case of dried product, dry blended with product produced in the United States) in an official plant.
(b) The label for relabeled products must state the name, address, and zip code of the distributor, qualified by an appropriate term such as “packed for”, “distributed by”, or “distributors”.
§ 590.960
Small importations for importer's personal use, display, or laboratory analysis.
Egg products (other than those that are forbidden entry by other Federal law or regulation) from any country, that are exclusively for the importer's personal use, display, or laboratory analysis, and not for sale or distribution; that are sound, healthful, wholesome, and fit for human food; and that are not adulterated and do not contain any substance not permitted by the Act or regulations, may be admitted into the United States without a foreign inspection certificate. Such products are not required to be inspected upon arrival in the United States and may be shipped to the importer without further restriction under this part, except as provided in 9 CFR 590.925(b), provided that the Department may, with respect to any specific importation, require that the importer certify that such product is exclusively for said importer's personal use, display, or laboratory analysis and not for sale or distribution. The amount of liquid, frozen, or dried egg products imported must not exceed 50 pounds.
§ 590.965
Returned to the United States inspected and marked egg products; exemption.
U.S. inspected and passed and so marked egg products exported to and returned from foreign countries will be admitted into the United States without compliance with this part upon notification to and approval of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, in specific cases.
Pt. 591

# PART 591—SANITATION REQUIREMENTS AND HAZARD ANALYSIS AND CRITICAL CONTROL POINT SYSTEMS
Sec.
591.1
Basic requirements.
591.2
Hazard analysis and HACCP plan.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 1031-1056; 7 CFR 2.18, 2.53.

# Source:
85 FR 68685, Oct. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 591.1
Basic requirements.
(a) All official plants must comply with the sanitation requirements contained in part 416 of this chapter, Sanitation, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(b) All official plants must comply with the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems requirements contained in part 417 of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(c) For the purposes of this chapter, parts 416, Sanitation, 417, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems, and 500, Rules of Practice, an official establishment or establishment includes an official plant.
§ 591.2
Hazard analysis and HACCP plan.
(a) Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 1035 and 1043, the failure of an official plant to develop and implement a HACCP plan that complies with part 417 of this chapter may render the products produced under those conditions adulterated.
(b) Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 1035 and 1043, the failure of an official plant to operate in accordance with the requirements in part 416 of this chapter, Sanitation, may render the products produced under those conditions adulterated.
(c) Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 1035 and 1043, the failure of an official plant to operate in accordance with the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems requirements in part 417 of this chapter, may render the product produced under those conditions adulterated.
(d) Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 1035 and 1043, the failure of an official plant to operate in accordance with the requirements in part 500 of this chapter, Rules of Practice, and part 590 of this chapter, Inspection of Eggs and Egg Products (Egg Products Inspection Act) may render the products produced under those conditions adulterated.
Pt. 592

# PART 592—VOLUNTARY INSPECTION OF EGG PRODUCTS
Sec.
592.1
Meaning of words.
592.2
Terms defined.
592.5
Designation of official certificates, memoranda, marks, other identifications, and devices for purposes of the Agricultural Marketing Act.

# Administration
592.10
Authority.

# General
592.20
Kinds of services available.
592.22
Where service is offered.
592.24
Basis of service.

# Performance of Services
592.70
Identification.
592.80
Political activity.
592.90
Authority and duties of inspection program personnel performing service.
592.95
Facilities and equipment to be furnished for use of inspection program personnel in performing service.
592.96
Schedule of operation of official plants.

# Application for Service
592.100
Who may obtain service.
592.120
Authority of applicant.
592.130
How application for service may be made.
592.140
Application for inspection in official plants; approval.
592.150
When application may be rejected.
592.160
When application may be withdrawn.
592.170
Order of service.
592.180
Suspension of plant approval.

# Denial of Service
592.200
Debarment.
592.220
Other applicable regulations.
592.240
Report of violations.
592.260
Reuse of containers bearing official identification prohibited.

# Identifying and Marking Products
592.300
Approval of official identification.
592.310
Form of official identification symbol and inspection mark.
592.320
Products that may bear the inspection mark.
592.330
Unauthorized use or disposition of approved labels.
592.340
Supervision of marking and packaging.
592.350
Accessibility of product.
592.360
Certificates.
592.370
Certificate issuance.
592.380
Disposition of certificates.
592.390
Advance information.

# Appeals
592.400
How to file an appeal.
592.450
Procedures for selecting appeal samples.
592.460
Appeal certificates.

# Fees and Charges
592.500
Payment of fees and charges.
592.510
Basetime rate.
592.520
Overtime rate.
592.530
Holiday rate.

# Sanitary and Processing Requirements
592.600
General.
592.650
Inspection.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1621-1627.

# Source:
69 FR 1648, Jan. 12, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 592.1
Meaning of words.
Under the regulations in this part words in the singular shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand.
§ 592.2
Terms defined.
For the purpose of the regulations in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall be construed, respectively:
Act
means the applicable provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 1087; 7 U.S.C. 1621
et seq.
), or any other Act of Congress conferring like authority.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the Department or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has been delegated, or to whom there may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
Applicant
means any interested party who requests any inspection service, or appeal inspection, with respect to any product.
Class
means any subdivision of a product based on essential physical characteristics that differentiate between major groups of the same kind, species, or method of processing.
Condition
means any condition (including, but not being limited to, the state of preservation, cleanliness, soundness, wholesomeness, or fitness for human food) of any product which affects its merchantability; or any condition, including, but not being limited to, the processing, or packaging which affects such product.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
District Manager
means the manager in charge of a district, which is a designated geographical area.
Eggs of Current Production
means shell eggs that have moved through the usual marketing channels since the date of lay and are not in excess of 60 days old.
Holiday or Legal holiday
means the legal public holidays specified by the Congress in paragraph (a) of section 6103, Title 5, of the United States Code.
Inspection
means the act by inspection program personnel of:
(1) Determining, according to these regulations, the class, quality, quantity, or condition of any product by examining each unit thereof or a representative sample drawn by inspection program personnel;
(2) Issuing a certificate; or
(3) Identifying, when requested by the applicant, any product by means of official identification pursuant to the Act and this part.
Inspection certificate
or
certificate
means a statement, either written or printed, issued by inspection program personnel pursuant to the Act and this part, relative to the class, quality, quantity, and condition of products.
Inspection program personnel (employee)
means employees of the Department authorized by the Secretary to investigate and certify, in accordance with the Act and this part, to shippers of products and other interested parties the class, quality, quantity, and condition of such products.
Interested party
means any person financially interested in a transaction involving any inspection or appeal inspection of any product.
Official plant
means any plant in which the facilities and methods of operation therein have been found by the Administrator to be suitable and adequate for inspection in accordance with this part and in which such service is carried on.
Person
means any individual, partnership, association, business trust, corporation, or any organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not.
Product
or
products
means eggs (whether liquid, frozen, or dried), egg products, and any food product that is prepared or manufactured and contains eggs as an ingredient.
Program employee
means any person employed by the Department or any cooperating agency who is authorized by the Secretary to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the program.
Quality
means the inherent properties of any product that determine its relative degree of excellence.
Regulations
mean the provisions in this part.
Sampling
means the act of taking samples of any product for inspection.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act in the Secretary's stead.
Service means:
(1) Any inspection, in accordance with the Agriculture Marketing Act and the regulations in this part, of any product,
(2) Supervision, in any official plant, of the processing, packaging and identification, or
(3) Any appeal inspection of any previously inspected product.
Shell eggs
mean the shell eggs of the domesticated chicken, turkey, duck, goose, and guinea.
§ 592.5
Designation of official certificates, memoranda, marks, other identifications, and devices for purposes of the Agricultural Marketing Act.
Subsection 203(h) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended by Public Law 272, 84th Congress, provides criminal penalties for various specified offenses relating to official certificates, memoranda, marks or other identifications, and devices for making such marks or identifications, issued or authorized under section 203 of said Act, and certain misrepresentations concerning the inspection of agricultural products under said section. For the purposes of said subsection and the provisions in this part, the terms listed below shall have the respective meanings specified:
(a)
Official certificate
means any form of certification, either written or printed, used under this part to certify with respect to the sampling, inspection, class, quality, quantity, or condition of products (including the compliance of products with applicable specifications).
(b)
Official memorandum
means any initial record of findings made by an authorized person in the process of inspecting, or sampling pursuant to this part, any processing or plant-operation report made by an authorized person in connection with inspecting, or sampling under this part and any report made by an authorized person of services performed pursuant to this part.
(c)
Official mark
means the inspection mark, and any other mark or symbol formulated pursuant to the regulations in this part, stating that the product was inspected, or for the purpose of maintaining the identity of the product.
(d)
Official identification
means any United States (U.S.) standard designation of class, quality, quantity, or condition specified in this part or any symbol, stamp, label, or seal indicating that the product has been officially inspected or indicating the class, quality, quantity, or condition of the product approved by the Administrator and authorized to be affixed to any product, or affixed to or printed on the packaging material of any product.
(e)
Official device
means a printed label, or other method as approved by the Secretary for the purpose of applying any official mark or other identification to any product of the packaging material thereof.

# Administration
§ 592.10
Authority.
The Administrator shall perform, for and under the supervision of the Secretary, such duties as the Secretary may require in the enforcement or administration of the provisions of the Act and this part. The Administrator is authorized to waive for a limited period any particular provisions of the regulations in this part to permit experimentation so that new procedures, equipment, and processing techniques may be tested to facilitate definite improvements and at the same time to determine full compliance with the spirit and intent of the regulations in this part. The Food Safety Inspection Service and its officers and employees shall not be liable in damages through acts of commission or omission in the administration of this part.

# General
§ 592.20
Kinds of services available.
The regulations in this part provide for the following kinds of services:
(a) Inspection of the processing in official plants of products containing eggs;
(b) Sampling of products; and
(c) Quantity and condition inspection of products.
(d)
Export certification.
Upon application, by any person intending to export any egg product, inspectors may make certifications regarding products for human food purposes, to be exported,
as meeting conditions or standards that are not imposed or are in addition to those imposed by the regulations in the part and the laws under which such regulations were issued.
[69 FR 1648, Jan. 12, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 42235, June 29, 2016]
§ 592.22
Where service is offered.
Any product may be inspected wherever inspection program personnel are available and the facilities and the conditions are satisfactory for the conduct of the service.
§ 592.24
Basis of service.
(a) Products shall be inspected in accordance with such standards, methods, and instructions as may be issued or approved by the Administrator. All service shall be subject to supervision at all times by the applicable FSIS designated supervisor. Whenever the supervisor of an inspection program person has evidence that such inspection program employee incorrectly inspected a product, such supervisor shall take such action as is necessary to correct the inspection and to cause any improper official identification that appears on the product or containers thereof to be corrected prior to shipment of the product from the place of the initial inspection.
(b) Whenever service is performed on a sample basis, such sample shall be drawn in accordance with the instructions as issued by the Administrator.

# Performance of Services
§ 592.70
Identification.
All inspection program personnel and supervisors shall have in their possession at all times while on duty and present upon request the means of identification furnished by the Department to such person.
§ 592.80
Political activity.
All inspection program personnel are forbidden during the period of their respective appointments, to take an active part in political management or in political campaigns. Political activity in city, county, State, or national elections, whether primary or regular, or in behalf of any party or candidate is prohibited, except as authorized by law or regulation of the Department. This applies to all appointees, including, but not being limited to, temporary and cooperative employees and employees on leave of absence with or without pay. Willful violation of this section will constitute grounds for dismissal.
§ 592.90
Authority and duties of inspection program personnel performing service.
(a) Inspection program personnel are authorized:
(1) To make such observations and inspections as they deem necessary to enable them to certify that products have been prepared, processed, stored, and otherwise handled in conformity with the regulations in this part;
(2) To supervise the marking of packages containing products that are eligible to be identified with official identification;
(3) To retain in their custody, or under their supervision, labels with official identification, marking devices, samples, certificates, seals, and reports of inspection program personnel;
(4) To deface or remove, or cause to be defaced or removed under their personal supervision, any official identification from any package containing products whenever the program employee determines that such products were not processed in accordance with the regulations in this part or are not fit for human food;
(5) To issue a certificate upon request on any product processed in the official plant; and
(6) To use retention tags or other devices and methods as may be approved by the Administrator for the identification and control of products that are not in compliance with the regulations in this part or are held for further examination, and any equipment, utensils, rooms or compartments that are found to be unclean or otherwise in violation of any of the regulations in this part. No product, equipment, utensil, room, or compartment shall be released for use until it has been made acceptable. Such identification shall not be removed by anyone other than inspection program personnel.
(b) Inspection program personnel shall prepare such reports and records
as may be prescribed by the Administrator.
§ 592.95
Facilities and equipment to be furnished for use of inspection program personnel in performing service.
(a) Facilities and equipment for proper sampling, weighing, examination of products, and monitoring processing procedures shall be furnished by the official plant for use by inspection program personnel. Such facilities and equipment shall include but not be limited to a room or area suitable for sampling product and stationary or adequately secured storage box or cage (capable of being locked only by inspection program personnel) for holding official samples.
(b) Acceptable furnished office space and equipment, including but not being limited to, a desk, lockers or cabinets (equipped with a satisfactory locking device) suitable for the protection and storage of supplies, and with facilities for inspection program personnel to change clothing.
§ 592.96
Schedule of operation of official plants.
Inspection operating schedules for services performed pursuant to this part shall be requested in writing and approved by the appropriate District Office. Normal operating schedules for a full-week consist of a continuous 8-hour period per day (excluding but not to exceed 1 hour for lunch), 5 consecutive days per week, within the administrative workweek, Sunday through Saturday, for each shift required. Less than 8-hour schedules may be requested and will be approved if inspection program personnel are available. Clock hours of daily operations need not be specified in the request, although as a condition of continued approval, the hours of operation shall consist of a continuous 10-hour period per day (excluding but not to exceed 1 hour for lunch), 4 consecutive days per week, within the administrative workweek, Sunday through Saturday for each full shift required. Inspection program personnel are to be given reasonable advance notice by management of any change in the hours the inspection service is requested.

# Application for Service
§ 592.100
Who may obtain service.
(a) An application for service may be made by any interested person, including, but not being limited to, the United States, any State, county, municipality, or common carrier, and any authorized agent of the foregoing.
(b) Where service is offered: Any product may be inspected, wherever an inspection program employee is available and the facilities and the conditions are satisfactory for the conduct of the service.
(c) The applicant must have a tax identification number for billing purposes.
§ 592.120
Authority of applicant.
Proof of the authority of any person applying for any service may be required at the discretion of the Administrator.
§ 592.130
How application for service may be made.
(a) On a fee basis. An application for service may be made with any inspection program personnel at or nearest the place where the service is desired. Such application for service may be made orally (in person or by telephone), in writing or by transmission. If an application for inspection service is made orally, the inspection program personnel with whom such application is made, or the Administrator, may require that the application be confirmed in writing.
(b) Form of application. Each application for inspection of a specified lot of any product shall include such information as may be required by the Administrator in regard to the product and the premises where such product is to be inspected.
§ 592.140
Application for inspection in official plants; approval.
Any person desiring to process products under inspection service must receive approval of such plant and facilities as an official plant prior to the installation of such service. The initial survey, drawings, and specifications to be submitted, changes and revisions in the official plant, and final survey and procedure for plant approval shall be in
accordance with and conform to the applicable provisions of Part 590 of this chapter.
§ 592.150
When an application may be rejected.
(a) Any application for service may be rejected by the Administrator:
(1) Whenever the applicant fails to meet the requirements of the regulations in this part prescribing the conditions under which the service is made available;
(2) Whenever the product is owned by or located on the premises of a person currently denied the benefits of the Act;
(3) Where any individual holding office or a responsible position with or having a substantial financial interest or share in the applicant is currently denied the benefits of the Act or was responsible in whole or in part for the current denial of the benefits of the Act to any person;
(4) Where the Administrator determines that the application is an attempt on the part of a person currently denied the benefits of the Act to obtain service;
(5) Whenever the applicant, after an initial survey has been made in accordance with Part 590, fails to bring the plant, facilities, and operating procedures into compliance with the regulations in this part within a reasonable period of time;
(6) Notwithstanding any prior approval whenever, before inauguration of service, the applicant fails to fulfill commitments concerning the inauguration of the service;
(7) When it appears that to perform the services specified in this part would not be to the best interests of the public welfare or of the Government; or
(8) When it appears to the Administrator that prior commitments of the Department necessitate rejection of the application.
(b) Each such applicant shall be promptly notified by registered mail of the reasons for the rejection. A written petition for reconsideration of such rejection may be filed by the applicant with the Administrator if postmarked or delivered within 10 days after receipt of notice of the rejection. Such petition shall state specifically the errors alleged to have been made by the Administrator in rejecting the application. Within 20 days following the receipt of such a petition for reconsideration, the Administrator shall approve the application or notify the applicant by registered mail of the reasons for the rejection thereof.
§ 592.160
When an application may be withdrawn.
An application for service may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time before the service is performed upon payment, by the applicant, of all expenses incurred by the Agency in connection with such application.
§ 592.170
Order of service.
Service shall be performed, insofar as practicable, in the order in which applications therefor are made except that precedence may be given to any application for an appeal.
§ 592.180
Suspension of plant approval.
(a) Any plant approval pursuant to the regulations in this part may be suspended for:
(1) Failure to maintain plant and equipment in a satisfactory state of repairs;
(2) The use of operating procedures that are not in accordance with the regulations in this part; or
(3) Alterations of buildings, facilities, or equipment that cannot be approved in accordance with the regulations in this part.
(b) During such period of suspension, inspection service shall not be rendered. However, the other provisions of the regulations in this part pertaining to providing service will remain in effect unless service is terminated in accordance with the terms thereof. If the plant facilities or methods of operation are not brought into compliance within a reasonable period of time to be specified by the Administrator, the application and service shall be terminated. Upon termination of service in an official plant pursuant to the regulations in this part, the plant approval shall also become terminated, and all labels, seals, tags, or packaging material bearing official identification shall, under the supervision of a person designated
by the Administrator, either be destroyed, or if to be used at another location, modified in a manner acceptable to the Agency.

# Denial of Service
§ 592.200
Debarment.
(a) The following acts or practices or the causing thereof may be deemed sufficient cause for the debarment by the Administrator of any person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, from any or all benefits of the Act for a specified period.
(1) Misrepresentation, or deceptive or fraudulent act or practice. Any willful misrepresentation or any deceptive or fraudulent act or practice found to be made or committed by any person in connection with:
(i) The making or filing of an application for any service or appeal;
(ii) The making of the product accessible for sampling or inspection;
(iii) The making, issuing, or using, or attempting to issue or use, any certificate, symbol, stamp, label, seal, or identification authorized pursuant to the regulations in this part;
(iv) The use of the terms “United States,” “U.S.,” “U.S. Inspected,” “Government Inspected,” or terms of similar import in the labeling or advertising of any product;
(v) The use of any official stamp, symbol, label, seal, or identification in the labeling or advertising of any product.
(2)
Use of facsimile forms.
Using or attempting to use a form that simulates in whole or in part any certificate, symbol, stamp, label, seal, or identification authorized to be issued or used under the regulations in this part.
(3) Willful violation of the regulations. Any willful violation of the regulations in this part or of the Act.
(4) Interfering with inspection program personnel or program employee of the Agency. Any interference with or obstruction or any attempted interference or obstruction of or assault upon any inspection program personnel or program employee of the Agency in the performance of their duties. The giving or offering, directly or indirectly, of any money, loan, gift, or anything of value to a program employee of the Agency, or the making or offering of any contribution to or in any way supplementing the salary, compensation or expenses of a program employee of the Agency, or the offering or entering into a private contract or agreement with a program employee of the Agency for any services to be rendered while employed by the Agency.
(5)
Miscellaneous.
The existence of any of the conditions set forth in § 592.150 constituting the basis for the rejection of an application for inspection service.
§ 592.220
Other applicable regulations.
Compliance with the regulations in this part shall not excuse failure to comply with any other Federal or any State or municipal applicable laws or regulations.
§ 592.240
Report of violations.
Each inspection program employee shall report, in the manner prescribed by the Administrator, all violations and noncompliance under the Act and this part of which such inspection program employee has knowledge.
§ 592.260
Reuse of containers bearing official identification prohibited.
The reuse, by any person, of containers bearing official identification is prohibited unless such identification is applicable in all respects to product being packed therein. In such instances, the container and label may be used provided the packaging is accomplished under the supervision of inspection program personnel or program employee, and the container is in clean, sound condition and lined with a suitable inner liner.

# Identifying and Marking Products
§ 592.300
Approval of official identification.
Labeling procedures, required information on labels, and method of label approval, shall be in accordance with and conform to the applicable provisions of part 590 of this chapter.
§ 592.310
Form of official identification symbol and inspection mark.
(a) The shield set forth in Figure 1, containing the letters “USDA,” shall be the official identification symbol for the purposes of this part and when used, imitated, or simulated in any manner in connection with a product shall be deemed to constitute a representation that the product has been officially inspected for the purpose of § 592.5.
ER12JA04.049
(b) The inspection marks that are permitted to be used on products shall be contained within the outline of a shield and with the wording and design set forth in Figure 2 of this section, except the plant number may be followed by the letter “G” in lieu of the word “plant.” Alternatively, it may be omitted from the official shield if applied on the container's principal display panel or other prominent location and preceded by the word “Plant” or followed by the letter “G.”
ER12JA04.050
§ 592.320
Products that may bear the inspection mark.
Products that are permitted to bear the inspection mark shall be processed in an official plant from edible shell eggs or other edible egg products eligible to bear the inspection mark and may contain other edible ingredients. The official mark, when used, shall be printed or lithographed and applied as a part of the principal display panel of the container, but shall not be applied to a detachable cover.
§ 592.330
Unauthorized use or disposition of approved labels.
(a) Containers or labels that bear official identification approved for use pursuant to § 592.300 shall be used only for the purpose for which approved. Any unauthorized use or disposition of approved containers or labels that bear any official identification may result in cancellation of the approval and denial of the use of containers or labels bearing official identification or denial of the benefits of the Act pursuant to the provisions of § 592.200;
(b) The use of simulations or imitations of any official identification by any person is prohibited;
(c) Upon termination of inspection service in an official plant pursuant to the regulations in this part, all labels or packaging material bearing official identification to be used to identify product packed by the plant shall either be destroyed, or have the official identification completely obliterated under the supervision of a USDA representative, or, if to be used at another location, modified in a manner acceptable to the Agency.
§ 592.340
Supervision of marking and packaging.
(a) Evidence of label approval. Inspection program personnel shall authorize the use of official identification on any inspected product when they have evidence that such official identification or packaging material bearing such official identification has been approved in accordance with the provisions of § 592.300.
(b) Affixing of official identification. No official identification may be affixed to or placed on or caused to be affixed to or placed on any product or
container thereof except by an inspection program employee or under the supervision of an inspection program employee or other person authorized by the Administrator. All such products shall have been inspected in accordance with the regulations in this part. Inspection program personnel shall have supervision over the use and handling of all material bearing any official identification.
(c) Labels for products sold under Government contract. Inspectors-in-charge may approve labels for containers of product sold under a contract specification to governmental agencies when such product is not offered for resale to the general public: Provided, that the contract specifications include complete specific requirements with respect to labeling, and are made available to inspection program personnel.
§ 592.350
Accessibility of product.
Each product for which service is requested shall be so placed as to disclose fully its class, quality, quantity, and condition as the circumstances may warrant.
§ 592.360
Certificates.
Certificates (including appeal certificates) shall be issued on forms approved by the Administrator.
§ 592.370
Certificate issuance.
When performing inspection service at locations other than an official establishment, inspection program personnel shall issue a certificate covering each product inspected. An applicant may request issuance of a certificate for each production lot inspected.
§ 592.380
Disposition of certificates.
The original and a copy of each certificate issued pursuant to § 592.370, and not to exceed two additional copies thereof if requested by the applicant prior to issuance, shall, immediately upon issuance, be delivered or mailed to the applicant or designee. Other copies shall be filed and retained in accordance with the disposition schedule for inspection program records.
§ 592.390
Advance information.
Upon request of an applicant, all or part of the contents of any certificate issued to such applicant may be telephoned or transmitted to the applicant or designee, at the applicant's expense.

# Appeals
§ 592.400
How to file an appeal.
Any person receiving inspection service may, if dissatisfied with any decision or action of an inspector or other Agency employee relating to any inspection, file an appeal from such decision or action in accordance with 9 CFR 500.9.
[87 FR 63424, Oct. 19, 2022]
§ 592.450
Procedures for selecting appeal samples.
(a)
Prohibition on movement of product.
Products shall not have been moved from the place where the inspection being appealed was performed and must have been maintained under adequate refrigeration, when applicable.
(b)
Laboratory analyses.
The appeal sample shall consist of product taken from the original sample containers plus an equal number of containers selected at random. When the original sample containers cannot be located, the appeal sample shall consist of product taken at random from double the number of original sample containers.
(c)
Condition inspection.
The appeal sample shall consist of product taken from the original sample containers plus an equal number of containers selected at random. A condition appeal cannot be made unless all originally sampled containers are available.
§ 592.460
Appeal certificates.
Immediately after an appeal inspection is completed, an appeal certificate shall be issued to show that the original inspection was sustained or was not sustained. Such certificate shall supersede any previously issued certificate for the product involved and shall clearly identify the number and date of the superseded certificate. The issuance of the appeal certificate may be withheld until any previously issued
certificate and all copies have been returned when such action is deemed necessary to protect the interest of the Government. When the appeal inspection program employee assigns a different class to the lot or determines that a net weight shortage exists, the lot shall be retained pending correction of the labeling or approval of the product disposition by the District Office.

# Fees and Charges
§ 592.500
Payment of fees and charges.
(a) Fees and charges for voluntary base time rate, overtime inspection service, holiday inspection service, and electronic export applications shall be paid by the interested party making the application for such service, in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section and § 592.510 through § 592.530, both inclusive. If so required by the inspection personnel, such fees and charges shall be paid in advance.
(b) Fees and charges for any service shall, unless otherwise required pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, be paid by check, draft, or money order payable to the Food Safety Inspection Service and remitted promptly to FSIS.
(c) Fees and charges for any service under a cooperative agreement with any State or person shall be paid in accordance with the terms of such cooperative agreement.
(d) Exporters that submit electronic export certificate applications will be charged a fee per application submitted.
(e) For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the electronic export certificate application fee, using the following formula: Labor Costs (Technical Support Cost + Export Library Maintenance Cost) + Information Technology Costs (On-going operations Cost + Maintenance Cost + eAuthentication Cost), divided by the number of export applications.
(f) FSIS will publish notice of the electronic export certificate application fee annually in the
Federal Register
.
[69 FR 1648, Jan. 12, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 42235, June 29, 2016]
§ 592.510
Basetime rate.
(a) For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the basetime rate for inspection services, per hour per program employee, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by the previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate.
(b) FSIS will calculate the benefits, travel and operating, overhead, and allowance for bad debt rate components of the basetime rate, using the following formulas:
(1)
Benefits rate.
The quotient of dividing the previous fiscal year's direct benefits costs by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday), plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage cost of living increase. Some examples of direct benefits are health insurance, retirement, life insurance, and Thrift Savings Plan basic and matching contributions.
(2)
Travel and operating rate.
The quotient of dividing the previous fiscal year's total direct travel and operating costs by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday), plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of inflation.
(3)
Overhead rate.
The quotient of dividing the previous fiscal year's indirect costs plus the previous fiscal year's information technology (IT) costs in the Public Health Data Communication Infrastructure System Fund plus the previous fiscal year's Office of Management Program cost in the Reimbursable and Voluntary Funds plus the provision for the operating balance less any Greenbook costs (i.e., costs of USDA support services prorated to the service component for which fees are charged) that are not related to food inspection, by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked across all funds, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of inflation.
(4)
Allowance for bad debt rate.
Previous fiscal year's allowance for bad debt (for example, debt owed that is not paid in full by plants and establishments that declare bankruptcy) divided by the previous fiscal year's total hours (regular, overtime, and holiday) worked.
(c) The calendar year's cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors used in the formulas in this section are based on the Office of Management and Budget's Presidential Economic Assumptions.
[76 FR 20228, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 592.520
Overtime rate.
When operations in an official plant require the services of inspection personnel beyond their regularly assigned tour of duty on any day or on a day outside the established schedule, such services are considered as overtime work. The official plant must give reasonable advance notice to the inspector of any overtime service necessary. For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the overtime rate for inspection service, per hour per program employee, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase multiplied by 1.5, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate. FSIS calculates the benefits rate, the travel and operating rate, the overhead rate, and the allowance for bad debt using the formulas set forth in § 592.510(b), and the cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors set forth in § 592.510(c).
[71 FR 2143, Jan. 13, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 20228, Apr. 12, 2011]
§ 592.530
Holiday rate.
When an official plant requires inspection service on a holiday or a day designated in lieu of a holiday, such service is considered holiday work. The official plant must, in advance of such holiday work, request that the inspector in charge furnish inspection services during such period and must pay the Agency for such holiday work at the hourly rate. For each calendar year, FSIS will calculate the holiday rate for inspection service, per hour per program employee, using the following formula: The quotient of dividing the Office of Field Operations plus Office of International Affairs inspection program personnel's previous fiscal year's regular direct pay by previous fiscal year's regular hours, plus the quotient multiplied by the calendar year's percentage of cost of living increase, multiplied by 2, plus the benefits rate, plus the travel and operating rate, plus the overhead rate, plus the allowance for bad debt rate. FSIS calculates the benefits rate, the travel and operating rate, the overhead rate, and the allowance for bad debt using the formulas set forth in § 592.510(b), and the cost of living increases and percentage of inflation factors set forth in § 592.510(c).
[71 FR 2143, Jan. 13, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 20229, Apr. 12, 2011]

# Sanitary and Processing Requirements
§ 592.600
General.
Except as otherwise approved by the Administrator, the sanitary, processing, and facility requirements, as applicable, shall be the same for the product processed under this part as for egg products processed under part 590 of this chapter.
§ 592.650
Inspection.
Examinations of the ingredients, processing, and the product shall be made to ensure the production of a wholesome, unadulterated, and properly labeled product. Such examinations include, but are not being limited to:
(a) Sanitation checks of plant premises, facilities, equipment, and processing operations.
(b) Checks on ingredients and additives used in products to ensure that they are not adulterated, are fit for use as human food, and are stored, handled, and used in a sanitary manner.
(c) Examination of the eggs or egg products used in the products to ensure they are wholesome, not adulterated,
and comply with the temperature, pasteurization, or other applicable requirements.
(d) Inspection during the processing and production of the product to determine compliance with any applicable standard or specification for such product.
(e) Examination during processing of the product to ensure compliance with approved formulas and labeling.
(f) Test weighing and organoleptic examinations of finished product.
PARTS 593-599 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
9 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
9 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
201.211 Added; eff. 1-11-21
79802
Chapter III
317 Uniform compliance date
81339
381 Uniform compliance date
81339
412—500 (Subchapter E) Heading revised
68672
416 Authority citation revised
68672
416 Correction: Effective date
81340
417 Authority citation revised
68672
417 Correction: Effective date
81340
417.7 (b) revised
68672
500 Authority citation revised
68672
500 Correction: Effective date
81340
500.2 (c) revised
68672
500.3 (a)(1) and (7) revised
68673
500.5 (a)(5) and (c) revised
68673
500.6 Introductory text and (a) through (i) redesignated as (a) introductory text and (1) through (9); new (a)(9) revised
68673
500.7 (a)(3) and (5) revised
68673
500.8 (a) and (c) revised
68673
590 Authority citation revised
68673
590 Correction: Effective date
81340
590.1—590.860 (Subpart A) Designated as Subpart A; heading added
68673
590.5 Amended
68673
590.10 Amended
68674
590.17 Removed
68674
590.22 Removed
68674
590.28 Revised
68674
590.40 Revised
68674
590.50 Revised
68674
590.100 Revised
68674
590.105 Removed
68674
590.112 Removed
68674
590.114 Removed
68674
590.116 Removed
68674
590.118 Revised
68674
590.119 Removed
68674
590.120 Revised
68674
590.134 (b) revised
68674
590.136 Revised
68675
590.140 Revised
68675
590.142 Revised
68675
590.146 Revised; eff. 10-29-21
68675
590.148 Removed
68675
590.149 Added; (a) eff. 10-29-21; (b) and (c) eff. 10-31-22
68675
590.149 Correction: Added; eff. 10-29-21; (b) and (c) stayed through 10-31-22
81340
590.160 Revised
68675
590.200 Revised
68675
590.300 Revised
68676
590.310 Revised
68676
590.320 Revised
68676
590.340 Revised
68676
590.350 Revised
68676
590.360 Removed
68676
590.370 Removed
68676
590.410 Revised
68676
590.411 Revised
68676
590.412 Redesignated as 590.413; new section added
68677
590.413 Redesignated from 590.412 and revised
68677
590.415 Revised
68678
590.418 (a) and (c) removed; (b) redesignated as undesignated text
68678
590.420 (a) and (b) revised
68678
590.422 Amended
68679
590.424 (b) revised
68679
590.430 (b) revised
68679
590.435 Revised
68679
590.440 (c) revised
68679
590.500 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68679
590.502 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68679
590.504 Revised; (f) through (n), (p), (q), eff. 10-29-21; (d)(1) and (2), (o)(1), (2), (3) eff. 10-31-22
68679
590.504 Correction: Regulation at 85 FR 68640, eff. date corrected; (a) through (e) revised; (f) through (n), (p) and (q) removed, eff. 10-29-21; (d) added, (f) through (o) removed, eff. 10-31-22
81341
590.506 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68679
590.508 Revised; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.510 (a) introductory text, (c)(1), (3), and (d) introductory text revised; eff. in part 10-29-21
68680
590.510 Correction: (a) introductory text, (c)(1), (3), and (d) introductory text revised; eff. 10-29-21
81340
590.515 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.516 Heading and (a) revised; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.520 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.522 Revised; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.530 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.532 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.534 Revised; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.536 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.538 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.539 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.540 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.542 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.544 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.546 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.547 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.548 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.549 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.550 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.552 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.560 Removed; eff. 10-29-21
68680
590.570 Revised; eff. in part 10-29-21 and 10-31-22
68680
590.570 Correction: Regulation at 85 FR 68640, eff. date corrected; (c) removed; (a) removed, eff. 10-29-21; Revised, eff. 10-31-22
81341
590.575 Removed; eff. 10-31-22
68680
590.580 Revised
68680
590.580 Correction: (b)(1) stayed through 10-31-22
81340
590.590 Added
68680
590.600—590.680 Undesignated center heading removed
68680
590.600 Removed
68680
590.610 Removed
68680
590.620 Removed
68680
590.630 Removed
68680
590.640 Removed
68680
590.650 Removed
68680
590.660 Removed
68680
590.670 Removed
68680
590.680 Removed
68680
590.700 Undesignated center heading and section added
68680
590.720 Added
68680
590.801 Added
68681
590.900—590.965 (Subpart B) Heading added
68681
590.900—590.970 Undesignated center heading removed
68681
590.900 Removed
68681
590.900 Added
68681
590.901 Added
68681
590.905 Removed
68681
590.905 Added
68681
590.910 Removed
68681
590.910 Added
68681
590.915 Added
68681
590.920 Removed
68681
590.920 Added
68681
590.925 Removed
68681
590.925 Added
68681
590.930 Removed
68681
590.930 Added
68681
590.935 Removed
68681
590.935 Added
68681
590.940 Removed
68681
590.940 Added
68681
590.945 Removed
68681
590.945 Added
68681
590.950 Removed
68681
590.950 Added
68681
590.955 Removed
68681
590.955 Added
68681
590.956 Removed
68681
590.956 Added
68681
590.960 Removed
68681
590.960 Added
68681
590.965 Removed
68681
590.965 Added
68681
590.970 Removed
68681
591 Added; eff. in part 10-29-21 and 10-31-22
68685
591.1 Correction: Regulation at 85 FR 68640, eff. date corrected; (a) stayed through 10-29-21; (b) stayed through 10-31-21
81340
591.2 Correction: Regulation at 85 FR 68640, eff. date corrected; (a) and (c) stayed through 10-31-22;(b) stayed through 10-29-21
81340
2021
9 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter III
310.20 Revised
33088
352 Technical correction
40299
352.1 (c), (e) through (g), (j) through (l), (x), and (aa) revised; (bb) added
37218
590.530 Correction: Added
60549
590.530 Correction: Removed; eff. 10-31-22
60550
590.536 Correction: Added
60550
590.536 Correction: Removed; eff. 10-31-22
60550
2022
9 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
201 Heading revised
11933
201.1—201.2 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.1—201.2 (Subpart A) Heading added
11933
201.3—201.4 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.3—201.4 (Subpart B) Heading added
11933
201.5 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.5 (Subpart C) Heading added
11933
201.10—201.11 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.10—201.11 (Subpart D) Heading added
11933
201.17 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.17 (Subpart E) Heading added
11933
201.27—201.28 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.27—201.28 (Subpart F) Heading added
11933
201.29—201.34 Undesignated center heading removed
11933
201.29—201.34 (Subpart G) Heading added
11933
201.39—201.42 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.39—201.42 (Subpart H) Heading added
11934
201.43—201.49 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.43—201.49 (Subpart I) Heading added
11934
201.53—201.70 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.53—201.70 (Subpart J) Heading added
11934
201.71—201.82 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.71—201.82 (Subpart K) Heading added
11934
201.86 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.86 (Subpart L) Heading added
11934
201.94—201.99 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.94—201.99 (Subpart M) Heading added
11934
201.100—201.218 Undesignated center heading removed
11934
201.100—201.218 (Subpart N) Heading added
11934
Chapter III
317 Notification
77707
317.2 (h)(4), (5), (9)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), and (12) amended
50556
327.10 (d)(2) revised
63423
327.24 Revised
63423
351.21 Revised
63423
354.134 Revised
63423
355 Removed
30775
381 Authority citation revised
50556
381 Notification
77707
381.35 Revised
63423
381.121 (c)(5) revised; (c)(8), (9)(i), and (iii) amended
50556
381.202 (d) revised
63423
381.204 (f)(2) revised
63423
439 Revised
51864
500.1 (c) revised
63424
500.9 Added
63424
590.300 Revised
63424
590.310 Revised
63424
592.400 Revised
63424
592.410 Removed
63424
592.420 Removed
63424
592.430 Removed
63424
592.440 Removed
63424
2023
9 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
201.2 (d) and (f) revised
62695
201.2 Revised; eff. 2-12-24
83290
201.17 (a) amended
62695
201.28 Heading and introductory text amended
62696
201.42 (g) amended
62696
201.72 (b) amended
62696
201.73-1 Introductory text amended
62696
201.100 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 2-12-24
83291
201.102 Added; eff. 2-12-24
83292
201.104 Added; eff. 2-12-24
83294
201.108-1 Introductory text amended
62696
201.200 (b) and (c) redesignated as (c) and (d); new (b) added; Heading and new (c) revised; authority citation removed
41022
202.2 (b) amended
62696
203.15 Revised
41022
206.2 (e) amended
62696
206.3 (c) amended
62696
Chapter III
352.7 Heading revised; introductory text amended
2811
354.60 Revised
2811
362.2 (a) amended
2811
381.36 (f)(3) removed
55913
381.76 (b)(6)(iv) removed
55913
381.82 Removed
55913
381.87 Revised
55913
412.1 (c)(2) removed; (e) revised
2811
412.2 (b) revised
2812
2024
9 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
200 CFR correction: (a)(5) revised
55023
201.300—201.390 (Subpart O) Added
16198
Chapter III
317 Notification
73253
317 Uniform compliance date
93470
317.8 (b)(1) revised
19494
381 Notification
73253
381 Uniform compliance date
93470
381.129 (b)(2) revised
19495
390 Authority citation revised
12746
390.11 Added
12747
412 Notification
73253
412.3 Added
19495
441 Notification
22331
○
