(11) In DOE's sole discretion, the cost of refinancing outstanding indebtedness that is directly associated with the Eligible Project, including the principal amount of such indebtedness, accrued interest thereon, and any reasonable and customary prepayment premium or breakage costs; provided that DOE determines that the refinancing furthers the purpose of the Eligible Project.
(12) With respect to Energy Infrastructure Reinvestment Projects, the cost of remediation of environmental damage associated with the Energy Infrastructure; and
(13) Other necessary and reasonable costs, including, without limitation, previously acquired real estate, equipment, or other materials, costs of interconnection, and any engineering, construction, make-ready, design, permitting, or other work completed on an existing facility or project;
(c) Where a Project consists of the financing and installation of a series of distributed energy resources, DOE may deem the eligible Project Costs to consist of the reasonable and documented costs incurred by the end-user of each distributed energy resource in connection with the contractual agreement between the end-user and the Project Sponsor or its agent, provided that:
(1) DOE is able to validate such reasonable and documented costs through standard customer contracts and standard distributed energy resource system attributes; and
(2) The Borrower institutes a compliance system satisfactory to DOE to ensure that each distributed energy resource supported by a Guarantee complies with any eligibility criteria required by DOE, including with respect to approved customer contracts and approved distributed energy resource systems.
(d) Project Costs do not include:
(1) Fees and commissions charged to Borrower, including finder's fees, for obtaining Federal or other funds;
(2) Parent corporation or other affiliated entity's general and administrative expenses, and non-Eligible Project related parent corporation or affiliated entity assessments, including organizational expenses;
(3) Goodwill, franchise, trade, or brand name costs;
(4) Dividends and profit sharing to stockholders, employees, and officers;
(5) Research, development, and demonstration costs of readying an innovative technology for employment in a commercial project;
(6) Costs that are excessive or are not directly required to carry out the Eligible Project, as determined by DOE;
(7) Expenses incurred after startup, commissioning, and shakedown of the facility, or, in DOE's discretion, any portion of the facility that has completed startup, commissioning, and shakedown;
(8) Borrower-paid Credit Subsidy Costs, the Administrative Cost of a Loan Guarantee, and any other fee collected by DOE; and
(9) Operating costs.
(e) Costs incurred in connection with an Eligible Project may be subject to such other criteria for inclusion as Project Costs as published by DOE from time to time in guidance on the Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program website pursuant to § 609.19.
§ 609.11
Transaction costs.
(a) Upon making a determination to engage independent consultants or outside counsel with respect to an Application, DOE will proceed to evaluate and process such Application only following execution by an Applicant or Project Sponsor, as appropriate, of an agreement satisfactory to DOE to pay the Transaction Costs charged by the independent consultants and outside legal counsel. Each Applicant, Borrower, or Project Sponsor, as applicable, shall be responsible for the payment of Transaction Costs associated with DOE's independent consultants and outside legal counsel in connection with an Application, Conditional Commitment, or Loan Guarantee Agreement, as applicable. Appropriate provisions regarding payment of such Transaction Costs shall also be included in each Term Sheet and Loan Guarantee Agreement or, upon a determination by DOE, in other appropriate agreements.
(b) Notwithstanding payment by Applicant, Borrower, or Project Sponsor, all services rendered by an independent consultant or outside legal counsel to DOE in connection with an Application, Conditional Commitment, or Loan Guarantee Agreement shall be solely for the benefit of DOE (and such other creditors as DOE may agree in writing). DOE may require, in its discretion, the payment of an advance retainer to such independent consultants or outside legal counsel as security for the collection of the fees and expenses charged by the independent consultants and outside legal counsel. In the event an Applicant, Borrower, or Project Sponsor fails to comply with the provisions of such payment agreement, DOE in its discretion, may stop work on or terminate an Application, a Conditional Commitment, or a Loan Guarantee Agreement, or may take such other remedial measures in its discretion as it deems appropriate.
(c) DOE shall not be financially liable under any circumstances to any independent consultant or outside counsel for services rendered in connection with an Application, Conditional Commitment, or Loan Guarantee Agreement except to the extent DOE has previously entered into an express written agreement to pay for such services.
§ 609.12
Credit ratings.
(a) Where conditions justify, in the sole discretion of the Secretary, DOE may require that an Applicant submit a preliminary credit assessment for the proposed project, reflecting the project without a Guarantee, from a nationally recognized statistical ratings organization.
(b) Where conditions justify, in the sole discretion of the Secretary, DOE may require that an Applicant provide a credit rating for the proposed project, and subsequently provide updated ratings, from a nationally recognized statistical ratings organization.
§ 609.13
Fees and charges.
(a) Unless explicitly authorized by statute, no funds obtained from the Federal Government, or from a loan or other instrument guaranteed by the Federal Government, may be used to pay for the Credit Subsidy Cost, the Facility Fee, the Maintenance Fee, and any other fees charged by or paid to DOE relating to Title XVII or any
Guarantee thereunder. An Applicant may, at any time, use non-Federal monies to pay the Credit Subsidy Cost or DOE fees.
(b) DOE may charge Applicants a non-refundable Facility Fee, payable on the closing date for the Loan Guarantee Agreement.
(c) In order to encourage and supplement private lending activity DOE may collect from Borrowers for deposit in the United States Treasury a non-refundable Risk-Based Charge which, together with the interest rate on the Guaranteed Obligation that LPO determines to be appropriate, will take into account the prevailing rate of interest in the private sector for similar loans and risks. The Risk-Based Charge shall be paid at such times and in such manner as may be determined by DOE, but no less frequently than once each year, commencing with payment of a pro-rated payment on the date the Guarantee is issued. The amount of the Risk-Based Charge will be specified in the Loan Guarantee Agreement.
(d) DOE may collect a Maintenance Fee as set forth in the Loan Guarantee Agreement. The Maintenance Fee shall accrue from the date of execution of the Loan Guarantee Agreement through the date of payment in full of the related Guaranteed Obligations. If DOE determines to collect a Maintenance Fee, it shall be paid by the Borrower each year (or portion thereof) in advance in the amount specified in the applicable Loan Guarantee Agreement.
(e) In the event a Borrower or an Eligible Project experiences difficulty relating to technical, financial, or legal matters or other events (
e.g.,
engineering failure or financial workouts), the Borrower shall be liable as follows:
(1) If such difficulty requires DOE to incur time or expenses beyond those customarily expended to monitor and administer performing loans, DOE may collect an extraordinary expenses fee from the Borrower that will reimburse DOE for such time and expenses, as determined by DOE; and
(2) For all fees and expenses of DOE's independent consultants and outside counsel, to the extent that such fees and expenses are elected to be paid by DOE notwithstanding the provisions of § 609.11.
§ 609.14
Full faith and credit and incontestability.
The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of principal and interest of Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to Guarantees issued in accordance with Title XVII and this part. The issuance by DOE of a Guarantee shall be conclusive evidence that it has been properly obtained; that the underlying loan qualified for such Guarantee; and that, but for fraud or material misrepresentation by the Holder, except when the Holder is the Federal Financing Bank, such Guarantee shall be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable against DOE in accordance with its terms.
§ 609.15
Default, demand, payment, and foreclosure on collateral.
(a) If a Borrower defaults in making a required payment of principal or interest on a Guaranteed Obligation and such default has not been cured within the applicable grace period, the Holder may make written demand for payment upon the Secretary in accordance with the terms of the applicable Guarantee. If a Borrower defaults in making a required payment of principal or interest on a Guaranteed Obligation and such default has not been cured within the applicable grace period, the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General.
(b) Subject to the terms of the applicable Guarantee, the Secretary shall make payment within 60 days after receipt of written demand for payment from the Holder, provided that the demand for payment complies in all respects with the terms of the applicable Guarantee. Interest shall accrue to the Holder at the rate stated in the promissory note evidencing the Guaranteed Obligation, without giving effect to the Borrower's default in making a required payment of principal or interest on the applicable Guarantee Obligation or any other default by the Borrower, until the Guaranteed Obligation has been fully paid by DOE. Payment by the Secretary on the applicable Guarantee does not change Borrower's obligations under the promissory note evidencing the Guaranteed Obligation, Loan Guarantee Agreement, Loan
Agreement, or related documents, including an obligation to pay default interest.
(c) Following payment by the Secretary pursuant to the applicable Guarantee, upon demand by DOE, the Holder shall transfer and assign to the Secretary (or his or her designee or agent) the promissory note evidencing the Guaranteed Obligation, all rights and interests of the Holder in the Guaranteed Obligation, and all rights and interests of the Holder in respect of the Guaranteed Obligation, except to the extent that the Secretary determines that such promissory note or any of such rights and interests shall not be transferred and assigned to the Secretary. Such transfer and assignment shall include, without limitation, all of the liens, security, and collateral rights of the Holder (or his or her designee or agent) in respect of the Guaranteed Obligation.
(d) Following payment by the Secretary pursuant to a Guarantee or other default of a Guaranteed Obligation, the Secretary is authorized to protect and foreclose on the collateral, take action to recover costs incurred by, and all amounts owed to, the United States as a result of the defaulted Guarantee Obligation, and take such other action necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the United States. In respect of any such authorized actions that involve a judicial proceeding or other judicial action, the Secretary shall act through the Attorney General. The foregoing provisions of this paragraph (d) shall not relieve the Secretary from his or her obligations pursuant to any applicable Intercreditor Agreement. Nothing in this paragraph (d) shall limit the Secretary from exercising any rights or remedies pursuant to the terms of the Loan Guarantee Agreement.
(e) The cash proceeds received as a result of any foreclosure on the collateral, or other action, shall be distributed in accordance with the Loan Guarantee Agreement (subject to any applicable Intercreditor Agreement).
(f) The Loan Guarantee Agreement shall provide that cash proceeds received by the Secretary (or his or her designee or agent) as a result of any foreclosure on the collateral or other action shall be applied in the following order of priority:
(1) Toward the pro rata payment of any costs and expenses (including unpaid fees, fees and expenses of counsel, contractors and agents, and liabilities and advances made or incurred) of the Secretary, the Attorney General, the Holder, a collateral agent, or other responsible person of any of them (solely in their individual capacities as such and not on behalf of or for the benefit of their principals), incurred in connection with any authorized action following payment by the Secretary pursuant to a Guarantee or other default of a Guaranteed Obligation, or as otherwise permitted under the Loan Agreement or Loan Guarantee Agreement;
(2) To pay all accrued and unpaid fees due and payable to the Secretary, the Attorney General, the Holder, a collateral agent, or other responsible person of any of them on a pro rata basis in respect of the Guaranteed Obligation;
(3) To pay all accrued and unpaid interest due and payable to the Secretary, the Attorney General, the Holder, a collateral agent, or other responsible person of any of them on a pro rata basis in respect of the Guaranteed Obligation;
(4) To pay all unpaid principal of the Guaranteed Obligation;
(5) To pay all other obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement, and related documents that are remaining after giving effect to the preceding provisions and are then due and payable; and
(6) To pay to the Borrower, or its successors and assigns, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct, any cash proceeds then remaining following the application of all payment described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(g) No action taken by the Holder or its agent or designee in respect of any collateral will affect the rights of any person, including the Secretary, having an interest in the Guaranteed Obligations or other debt obligations, to pursue, jointly or severally, legal action against the Borrower or other liable
persons, for any amounts owing in respect of the Guaranteed Obligation or other applicable debt obligations.
(h) In the event that the Secretary considers it necessary or desirable to protect or further the interest of the United States in connection with exercise of rights as a lien holder or recovery of deficiencies due under the Guaranteed Obligation, the Secretary may take such action as he determines to be appropriate under the circumstances.
(i) Nothing in this part precludes, nor shall any provision of this part be construed to preclude, the Secretary from purchasing any collateral or Holder's or other Person's interest in the Eligible Project upon foreclosure of the collateral.
(j) Nothing in this part precludes, nor shall any provision of this part be construed to preclude, forbearance by any Holder with the consent of the Secretary for the benefit of the Borrower and the United States.
(k) The Holder and the Secretary may agree to a formal or informal plan of reorganization in respect of the Borrower, to include a restructuring of the Guaranteed Obligation and other applicable debt of the Borrower on such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines are in the best interest of the United States.
§ 609.16
Preservation of collateral.
(a) If the Secretary exercises his or her right under the Loan Guarantee Agreement to require the holder of pledged collateral to take such actions as the Secretary (subject to any applicable Intercreditor Agreement) may reasonably require to provide for the care, preservation, protection, and maintenance of such collateral so as to enable the United States to achieve maximum recovery from the collateral, the Secretary shall, subject to compliance with the Antideficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. 1341
et seq.,
reimburse the holder of such collateral for reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred in taking actions required by the Secretary (unless otherwise provided in applicable agreements). Except as provided in § 609.15, no party may waive or relinquish, without the consent of the Secretary, any such collateral to which the United States would be subrogated upon payment under the Loan Guarantee Agreement.
(b) In the event of a default, the Secretary may enter into such contracts as he determines are required or appropriate, taking into account the term of any applicable Intercreditor Agreement, to care for, preserve, protect or maintain collateral pledged in respect of Guaranteed Obligations. The cost of such contracts may be charged to the Borrower.
§ 609.17
Audit and access to records.
Each Loan Guarantee Agreement and related documents shall provide that:
(a) The Eligible Lender, or DOE in conjunction with the Federal Financing Bank where loans are funded by the Federal Financing Bank or other Holder or other party servicing the Guaranteed Obligations, as applicable, and the Borrower, shall keep such records concerning the Eligible Project as are necessary, including the Application, Term Sheet, Conditional Commitment, Loan Guarantee Agreement, Credit Agreement, mortgage, note, disbursement requests and supporting documentation, financial statements, audit reports of independent accounting firms, lists of all Eligible Project assets and non-Eligible Project assets pledged in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations, all off-take and other revenue producing agreements, documentation for all Eligible Project indebtedness, income tax returns, technology agreements, documentation for all permits and regulatory approvals, and all other documents and records relating to the Borrower or the Eligible Project, as determined by the Secretary, to facilitate an effective audit and performance evaluation of the Eligible Project; and
(b) The Secretary and the Comptroller General, or their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the Borrower, Eligible Lender, or DOE or other Holder or other party servicing the Guaranteed Obligation, as applicable. Such inspection may be made during regular office hours of the Borrower, Eligible Lender, DOE or other Holder, or other party servicing the Eligible
Project and the Guaranteed Obligations, as applicable, or at any other time mutually convenient.
§ 609.18
Deviations.
(a) Subject to the requirements of Title XVII and as otherwise permitted by applicable law, the Secretary may authorize deviations from the requirements of this part upon:
(1) Either receipt from the Applicant, Borrower, or Project Sponsor, as applicable, of—
(i) A written request that the Secretary deviate from one or more requirements; and
(ii) A supporting statement briefly describing one or more justifications for such deviation; or
(iii) A determination by the Secretary in his or her discretion to undertake a deviation;
(2) A finding by the Secretary that such deviation supports program objectives and the special circumstances stated in the request make such deviation clearly in the best interest of the Government; and
(3) If the waiver would constitute a substantial change in the financial terms of the Loan Guarantee Agreement and related documents, DOE's consultation with OMB and the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) If a deviation under this section results in an increase in the applicable Credit Subsidy Cost, such increase shall be funded either by additional fees paid by the Borrower or on behalf of the Borrower by any third party or, if an appropriation is available, by means of an appropriations act. The Secretary has discretion to determine how the cost of a deviation is funded.
§ 609.19
Title XVII loan guarantee program guidance.
(a) Invitations for the submission of Applications for loan guarantees for Eligible Projects shall be published on DOE's Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program website. The Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program website shall contain guidance for potential Title XVII Applicants and solicit applications for a Guarantee.
(b) The Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program website must include, at a minimum, the following guidance:
(1) The dollar amount of loan guarantee authority potentially being made available by DOE for Guarantees under Title XVII;
(2) The method and further instructions for submission of Applications;
(3) The name and address of the DOE representative whom a potential Applicant may contact to receive further information;
(4) The programmatic, technical, financial, and other factors and criteria that DOE will use to evaluate Applications, including but not limited to consideration of the Reasonable Prospect of Repayment, the amount of Equity provided, and the reliance on other Federal assistance;
(5) The required contents of the Application, which may vary by category of Eligible Project; and
(6) Such other information as DOE may deem appropriate.
(c) Using procedures as may be announced by DOE, a potential Applicant may request a meeting with DOE to discuss its potential Application. At its discretion, DOE may meet with a potential Applicant, either in person or electronically, to discuss its potential Application. DOE's responses to questions from potential Applicants and DOE's statements to potential Applicants, including any initial thoughts on the eligibility of the project, are pre-decisional and preliminary in nature. Any such responses and statements are subject in their entirety to any final action by DOE with respect to an Application submitted in accordance with § 609.4.
Pt. 611

# PART 611—ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY VEHICLES MANUFACTURER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
611.1
Purpose.
611.2
Definitions.
611.3
On-road advanced technology vehicle.
611.4
Nonroad advanced technology vehicle.

# Subpart B—Direct Loan Program
611.100
Eligible applicant.
611.101
Application.
611.102
Eligible project costs.
611.103
Application evaluation.
611.104
[Reserved]
611.105
Agreement.
611.106
Environmental requirements.
611.107
Loan terms.
611.108
Perfection of liens and preservation of collateral.
611.109
Audit and access to records.
611.110
Assignment or transfer of loans.
611.111
Default, demand, payment, and collateral liquidation.
611.112
Termination of obligations.

# Subpart C—Facility Funding Awards
611.200
Purpose and scope.
611.201
Applicability.
611.202
Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Facility Award Program.
611.203
Eligibility.
611.204
Awards.
611.205
Period of award availability.
611.206
Existing facilities.
611.207
Small automobile and component manufacturers.
611.208-611.209
[Reserved]

# Authority:
Pub. L. 110-140 (42 U.S.C. 17013), Pub. L. 110-329, Pub. L. 111-85, Pub. L. 117-58.

# Source:
73 FR 66731, Nov. 12, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 611.1
Purpose.
This part is issued by the Department of Energy (DOE) pursuant to section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, Public Law 110-140, as amended by section 129 of Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009, Public Law 110-329, section 312 of Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2010, Public Law 111-85, section 40401(b) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Public Law 117-58, and section 50142 of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, Public Law 117-169. Specifically, section 136(e) directs DOE to promulgate an interim final rule establishing regulations that specify eligibility criteria and that contain other provisions that the Secretary deems necessary to administer this section and any loans made by the Secretary pursuant to this section.
[89 FR 33202, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 611.2
Definitions.
The definitions contained in this section apply to provisions contained in both this subpart and subpart B of this part.
Adjusted average fuel economy
means a harmonic production weighted average of the combined fuel economy of all vehicles in a fleet, which were subject to CAFE.
Advanced technology vehicle
means an on-road advanced technology vehicle or a nonroad advanced technology vehicle.
Agreement
means the contractual loan arrangement between DOE and a Borrower for a loan made by and through the Federal Financing Bank with the full faith and credit of the United States Government on the principal and interest.
Applicant
means a party that submits a substantially complete application pursuant to this part.
Application
means the compilation of the materials required by this part to be submitted to DOE by an Applicant. One Application can include requests for one or more loans and one or more projects. However, an Application covering more than one project must contain complete and separable information with respect to each project.
Automobile
is used as that term is defined in 49 CFR part 523.
Borrower
means an Applicant that receives a loan under the program under this part.
CAFE
means the Corporate Average Fuel Economy program of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, 49 U.S.C. 32901
et seq.
Combined fuel economy
means the combined city/highway miles per gallon values, as are reported in accordance with section 32904 of title 49, United States Code. If CAFE compliance data is not available, the combined average fuel economy of a vehicle must be demonstrated through the use of a peer-reviewed model.
DOE
or
Department
means the United States Department of Energy.
Eligible Facility
means a manufacturing facility in the United States that produces qualifying advanced technology vehicles, or qualifying components.
Eligible Project
means:
(1) Reequipping, expanding, or establishing a manufacturing facility in the
United States to produce qualifying advanced technology vehicles, or qualifying components; or
(2) Engineering integration performed in the United States for qualifying advanced technology vehicles and qualifying components; or
(3) Manufacturing, recycling, processing, reprocessing, remediation, or reuse of materials, components, or subcomponents involving critical minerals, critical minerals production, or the supply chain for such materials, as set forth in Executive Order 13953 (“Executive Order Addressing the Threat to the Domestic Supply Chain from Reliance on Critical Minerals from Foreign Adversaries,” dated September 20, 2020), and Executive Order 13817 (“A Federal Strategy to Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals,” dated December 20, 2017), as amended.
Engineering integration
costs are the costs of engineering tasks relating to—
(1) Incorporating qualifying components into the design of advanced technology vehicles; and
(2) Designing tooling and equipment and developing manufacturing processes and material suppliers for production facilities that produce qualifying components or advanced technology vehicles.
Equivalent vehicle
means a light-duty vehicle of the same vehicle classification as specified in 10 CFR part 523.
Financially viable
means a reasonable prospect that the Applicant will be able to make payments of principal and interest on the loan as and when such payments become due under the terms of the loan documents, and that the Applicant has a net present value that is positive, taking all costs, existing and future, into account.
Grantee
means an entity awarded a grant made pursuant to section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and this part.
Light-duty vehicle
means passenger automobiles and light trucks.
Light truck
is used as that term is defined in 49 CFR part 523.
Loan Documents
mean the Agreement and all other instruments, and all documentation among DOE, the Borrower, and the Federal Financing Bank evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering the loan [references to loan documents also include comparable agreements, instruments, and documentation for other financial obligations for which a loan is requested or issued].
Model year
is defined as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 32901.
Nonroad advanced technology vehicle
means:
(1) A train or locomotive;
(2) A maritime vessel;
(3) An aircraft; and
(4) Hyperloop technology That, in each case, emit, under any possible operational mode or condition, low or zero exhaust emissions of greenhouse gases.
On-road advanced technology vehicle
means
(1) An ultra efficient vehicle or a light duty vehicle that meets—
(i) The Bin 5 Tier II emission standard established in regulations issued by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under section 202(i) of the Clean Air Act (the Act) (42 U.S.C. 7521(i)), as of the date of application, or a lower-numbered Bin emission standard;
(ii) Any new emission standard in effect for fine particulate matter prescribed by the Administrator under the Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), as of the date of application; and
(iii) At least 125 percent of the harmonic production weighted average combined fuel economy, for vehicles with substantially similar attributes in model year 2005.
(2) A medium duty vehicle or heavy duty vehicle that exceeds 125 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions and fuel efficiency standards established by the final rule of the Environmental Protection Agency entitled “Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fuel Efficiency Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles—Phase 2” (81 FR 73478 (October 25, 2016)).
Passenger automobile
is used as that term is defined in 49 CFR part 523.
Qualifying components
means components that the DOE determines are:
(1) Designed for advanced technology vehicles; and
(2) Installed for the purpose of meeting the performance requirements of advanced technology vehicles; or
(3) Involving critical minerals, as set forth in Executive Order 13953 (“Executive Order Addressing the Threat to the Domestic Supply Chain from Reliance on Critical Minerals from Foreign Adversaries,” dated September 20, 2020), and Executive Order 13817 (“A Federal Strategy to Ensure Secure and Reliable Supplies of Critical Minerals,” dated December 20, 2017), as amended, as a component of advanced technology vehicles.
Secretary
means the United States Secretary of Energy.
Security
means all property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, required by the provisions of the Loan Documents to secure repayment of any indebtedness of the Borrower under the Loan Documents.
Ultra efficient vehicle
means a fully closed compartment vehicle designed to carry at least 2 adult passengers that achieves—
(1) At least 75 miles per gallon while operating on gasoline or diesel fuel;
(2) At least 75 miles per gallon equivalent while operating as a hybrid electric-gasoline or electric-diesel vehicle; or
(3) At least 75 miles per gallon equivalent while operating as a fully electric vehicle.
[86 FR 3761, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 33203, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 611.3
On-road advanced technology vehicle.
In order to demonstrate that a light duty vehicle is an “on-road advanced technology vehicle”, an automobile manufacturer must provide the following:
(a) Emissions certification. An automobile manufacturer must certify in writing that the vehicle meets, or will meet, the emissions requirements specified in the definition of “on-road advanced technology vehicle”; and
(b) Demonstration of fuel economy performance. An automobile manufacturer must demonstrate that the vehicle has a combined average fuel economy of at least 125 percent of the average combined fuel economy for vehicles with substantially similar attributes for model year 2005.
(1) A combined average fuel economy calculation required under this paragraph for a vehicle that is a dual fueled automobile for the purpose of CAFE is calculated as if the vehicle were not a dual fueled automobile.
(2) The average combined fuel economy for vehicles with substantially similar attributes is a harmonic production weighted average of the combined average fuel economy of all vehicles with substantially similar attributes in model year 2005, as published by DOE.
(3) In the case of an electric drive vehicle with the ability to recharge from an off-board source, an automobile manufacturer must provide DOE with a test procedure and sufficient data to demonstrate that the vehicle meets or exceeds the applicable average combined fuel economy of vehicles with substantially similar attributes.
[73 FR 66731, Nov. 12, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 33203, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 611.4
Nonroad advanced technology vehicle.
A manufacturer of a nonroad advanced technology vehicle or a manufacturer of a nonroad advanced technology vehicle qualifying component must provide DOE with such information to demonstrate to the satisfaction of DOE that the applicable nonroad advanced technology vehicle emits, under any possible operational mode or condition, low or zero exhaust emissions of greenhouse gases.
[89 FR 33203, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Subpart B—Direct Loan Program
§ 611.100
Eligible applicant.
(a) In order to be eligible to receive a loan under this part, an applicant
(1) Must be—
(i) An on-road advanced technology vehicle manufacturer that, if it is a light duty vehicle manufacturer, can demonstrate an improved fuel economy as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, or otherwise satisfies the applicable standards set forth in the definition of on-road advanced technology vehicle,
(ii) A manufacturer of a qualifying component, or
(iii) A nonroad advanced technology vehicle manufacturer; and
(2) Must be financially viable without receipt of additional Federal funding associated with the proposed eligible project.
(b) Improved fuel economy. (1) If the applicant is an automobile manufacturer that manufactured in model year 2005, vehicles subject to the CAFE requirements, the applicant must demonstrate that its adjusted average fuel economy for its light-duty vehicle fleet produced in the most recent year for which final CAFE compliance data is available, at the time of application, is greater than or equal to the adjusted average fuel economy of the applicant's fleet for MY 2005, based on the MY 2005 final CAFE compliance data.
(2) If the applicant is an automobile manufacturer that did not manufacture in model year 2005, vehicles subject to the CAFE requirements, the applicant must demonstrate that the projected combined fuel economy for the relevant the advanced technology vehicle that is the subject of the application is greater than or equal to the industry adjusted average fuel economy for model year 2005 of equivalent vehicles, based on final CAFE compliance data.
(3) The CAFE values under this paragraph are to be calculated using the CAFE procedures applicable to the model year being evaluated.
(4) An applicant must provide fuel economy data, at the model level, relied upon to make the demonstration required by this section.
(5) An applicant that is a manufacturer of a qualifying component under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section does not need to make a showing of improved fuel economy under this paragraph.
(c) In determining under paragraph (a)(2) of this section whether an applicant is financially viable, the Department will consider a number of factors, including, but not limited to:
(1) The applicant's debt-to-equity ratio as of the date of the loan application;
(2) The applicant's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for the applicant's most recent fiscal year prior to the date of the loan application;
(3) The applicant's debt to EBITDA ratio as of the date of the loan application;
(4) The applicant's interest coverage ratio (calculated as EBITDA divided by interest expenses) for the applicant's most recent fiscal year prior to the date of the loan application;
(5) The applicant's fixed charge coverage ratio (calculated as EBITDA plus fixed charges divided by fixed charges plus interest expenses) for the applicant's most recent fiscal year prior to the date of the loan application;
(6) The applicant's liquidity as of the date of the loan application;
(7) Statements from applicant's lenders that the applicant is current with all payments due under loans made by those lenders at the time of the loan application; and
(8) Financial projections demonstrating the applicant's solvency through the period of time that the loan is outstanding.
(d). For purposes of making a determination under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, additional Federal funding includes any loan, grant, guarantee, insurance, payment, rebate, subsidy, credit, tax benefit, or any other form of direct or indirect assistance from the Federal government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, other than the proceeds of a loan approved under this Part, that is, or is expected to be made available with respect to, the project for which the loan is sought under this Part.
[73 FR 66731, Nov. 12, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 33203, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 611.101
Application.
The information and materials submitted in or in connection with applications will be treated as provided in 10 CFR 600.15 and must be marked as provided in 10 CFR 600.15(b). An application must include, at a minimum, the following information and materials:
(a) A certification by the applicant that it meets each of the requirements of the program as set forth in statute, the regulations in this part, and any supplemental requirements issued by DOE;
(b) A description of the nature and scope of the proposed project for which a loan or award is sought under this part, including key milestones and location of the project;
(c) A detailed explanation of how the proposed project qualifies under applicable law to receive a loan or award under this part, including vehicle simulations using industry standard model (need to add name and location of this open source model) to show projected fuel economy;
(d) A detailed estimate of the total project costs together with a description of the methodology and assumptions used to produce that estimate;
(e) A detailed description of the overall financial plan for the proposed project, including all sources and uses of funding, equity, and debt, and the liability of parties associated with the project;
(f) Applicant's business plan on which the project is based and applicant's financial model presenting project
pro forma
statements for the proposed term of the obligations including income statements, balance sheets, and cash flows. All such information and data must include assumptions made in their preparation and the range of revenue, operating cost, and credit assumptions considered;
(g) An analysis of projected market use for any product (vehicle or component) to be produced by or through the project, including relevant data and assumptions justifying the analysis, and copies of any contractual agreements for the sale of these products or assurance of the revenues to be generated from sale of these products;
(h) Financial statements for the past three years, or less if the applicant has been in operation less than three years, that have been audited by an independent certified public accountant, including all associated notes, as well as interim financial statements and notes for the current fiscal year, of the applicant and parties providing the applicant's financial backing, together with business and financial interests of controlling or commonly controlled organizations or persons, including parent, subsidiary and other affiliated corporations or partners of the applicant;
(i) A list showing the status of and estimated completion date of applicant's required project-related applications or approvals for Federal, state, and local permits and authorizations to site, construct, and operate the project, a period of 5 years preceding the submission of an application under this Part;
(j) Information sufficient to enable DOE to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as required by § 611.106 of this part;
(k) A listing and description of assets associated, or to be associated, with the project and any other asset that will serve as collateral for the Loan, including appropriate data as to the value of the assets and the useful life of any physical assets. With respect to real property assets listed, an appraisal that is consistent with the “Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice,” promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation, and performed by licensed or certified appraisers, is required;
(l) An analysis demonstrating that, at the time of the application, the applicant is financially viable without receipt of additional Federal funding associated with the proposed project, and that there is a reasonable prospect that the Applicant will be able to make payments of principal and interest on the loan as and when such payments become due under the terms of the loan documents, and that the applicant has a net present value which is positive, taking all costs, existing and future, into account. This information must include, from publicly traded companies, relevant filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(m) Written assurance that all laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors during construction, alteration, or repair that is financed, in whole or in part, by a loan under this Part shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with 40 U.S.C. sections 3141-3144, 3146, and 3147;
(n) Completed Form SF-LLL, as required by 10 CFR Part 601; and
(o) Other information, as determined necessary by DOE.
[73 FR 66731, Nov. 12, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 26583, May 9, 2011]
§ 611.102
Eligible project costs.
(a) Eligible costs are:
(1) Those costs that are reasonably related to the reequipping, expanding, or establishing a manufacturing facility in the United States to produce qualifying advanced technology vehicles or qualifying components;
(2) Costs of engineering integration performed in the United States for qualifying vehicles or qualifying components;
(3) Costs for payment with loan proceeds that are incurred, but not yet paid by the borrower, after a substantially complete application has been submitted to DOE; and
(4) Costs incurred after closing of the loan.
(b) In determining the overall total cost of an Eligible Project, DOE and the applicant may include significant costs already incurred and capitalized by the applicant in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and these costs may be considered by DOE in determining the Borrower's contribution to total project costs.
§ 611.103
Application evaluation.
(a)
Eligibility screening.
Applications will be reviewed to determine whether the applicant is eligible, the information required under § 611.101 is complete, and the proposed loan complies with applicable statutes and regulations. DOE can at any time reject an application, in whole or in part, that does not meet these requirements. Any additional information submitted to DOE will be treated as provided in 10 CFR 600.15 and must be marked as provided in 10 CFR 600.15(b).
(b)
Evaluation criteria.
Applications that are determined to be eligible pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to a substantive review by DOE based upon factors that include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The technical merit of the proposed advanced technology vehicles or qualifying components, with greater weight given for factors including, but not limited to:
(i) Improved vehicle fuel economy above that required for an advanced technology vehicle;
(ii) Potential contributions to improved fuel economy of the U.S. light-duty vehicle fleet;
(iii) Likely reductions in petroleum use by the U.S. light-duty fleet; and
(iv) Promotion of use of advanced fuel (e.g., E85, ultra-low sulfur diesel).
(2) Technical Program Factors such as economic development and diversity in technology, company, risk, and geographic location.
(3) The adequacy of the proposed provisions to protect the Government, including sufficiency of Security, the priority of the lien position in the Security, and the percentage of the project to be financed with the loan.
(4) In making loans to those manufacturers that have existing facilities, priority will be given to those facilities that are oldest or have been in existence for at least 20 years even if such facilities are idle at the time of application.
[73 FR 66731, Nov. 12, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 26583, May 9, 2011]
§ 611.104
[Reserved]
§ 611.105
Agreement.
(a) Only an Agreement executed by a duly authorized DOE Contracting Officer can contractually obligate the government to make a loan made by and through the Federal Financing Bank with the full faith and credit of the United States government on the principal and interest.
(b) DOE is not bound by oral representations made during the Application stage, or during any negotiation process.
(c) No funds obtained from the Federal Government, or from a loan or other instrument guaranteed by the Federal Government, may be used to pay administrative fees, or other fees charged by or paid to DOE relating to the section 136 loan program.
(d) Prior to the execution by DOE of an Agreement, DOE must ensure that the following requirements and conditions, which must be specified in the Agreement, are satisfied:
(1) The Borrower is a Eligible Applicant as defined in this part;
(2) The Agreement is for an Eligible Project as defined in this part;
(3) The principal amount of the loan is limited to no more than 80 percent of reasonably anticipated total Project Costs;
(4) Loan funds will be disbursed only to meet immediate cash disbursement needs of the Borrower and not for investment purposes, and any investment earnings obtained in excess of accrued interest expense will be returned to United States Government; and
(5) Such documents, representations, warrants and covenants as DOE may require.
§ 611.106
Environmental requirements.
(a)(1)
In general.
Environmental review of the proposed projects under this part will be conducted in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders.
(2) The applicant must submit a comprehensive environmental report. The comprehensive environmental report shall consist of the specific reports and related material set forth in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section.
(3) The regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality implementing NEPA require DOE to provide public notice of the availability of project specific environmental documents such as environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, records of decision etc., to the affected public. See 40 CFR 1506.6(b). The comprehensive environmental report will provide substantial basis for any required environmental impact statement or environmental assessment and findings of no significant impact, pursuant to the procedures set forth in 10 CFR 1021.215. DOE may also make a determination as to whether a categorical exclusion is available with regard to an Application.
(b) The detail of each specific report must be commensurate with the complexity of the proposal and its potential for environmental impact. Each topic in each specific report shall be addressed or its omission justified, unless the specific report description indicates that the data is not required for that type of project. If material required for one specific report is provided in another specific report or in another exhibit, it may be incorporated by reference. If any specific report topic is required for a particular project but is not provided at the time the application is filed, the comprehensive environmental report shall explain why it is missing and when the applicant anticipates it will be filed.
(c) As appropriate, each specific report shall:
(1) Address conditions or resources that might be directly or indirectly affected by the project;
(2) Identify significant environmental effects expected to occur as a result of the project;
(3) Identify the effects of construction, operation (including maintenance and malfunctions), and termination of the project, as well as cumulative effects resulting from existing or reasonably foreseeable projects;
(4) Identify measures proposed to enhance the environment or to avoid, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects of the project; and
(5) Provide a list of publications, reports, and other literature or communications that were cited or relied upon to prepare each report.
(d) Specific Report 1—Project impact and description. This report must describe the environmental impacts of the project, facilities associated with the project, special construction and operation procedures, construction timetables, future plans for related construction, compliance with regulations and codes, and permits that must be obtained.
(e) Specific Report 2—Socioeconomics. This report must identify and quantify the impacts of constructing and operating the proposed project on factors affecting towns and counties in the vicinity of the project. The report must:
(1) Describe the socioeconomic impact area;
(2) Evaluate the impact of any substantial immigration of people on governmental facilities and services and plans to reduce the impact on the local infrastructure;
(3) Describe on-site manpower requirements and payroll during construction and operation, including the number of construction personnel who currently reside within the impact area, would commute daily to the site from outside the impact area, or would relocate temporarily within the impact area;
(4) Determine whether existing housing within the impact area is sufficient to meet the needs of the additional population;
(5) Describe the number and types of residences and businesses that would be displaced by the project, procedures to be used to acquire these properties, and types and amounts of relocation assistance payments; and
(6) Conduct a fiscal impact analysis evaluating incremental local government expenditures in relation to incremental local government revenues that would result from construction of the project. Incremental expenditures include, but are not limited to, school operating costs, road maintenance and repair, public safety, and public utility costs.
(f) Specific Report 3—Alternatives. This report must describe alternatives to the project and compare the environmental impacts of such alternatives to those of the proposal. The discussion must demonstrate how environmental benefits and costs were weighed against economic benefits and costs, and technological and procedural constraints. The potential for each alternative to meet project deadlines and the environmental consequences of each alternative shall be discussed. The report must discuss the “no action” alternative and the potential for accomplishing the proposed objectives through the use of other means. The report must provide an analysis of the relative environmental benefits and costs for each alternative.
§ 611.107
Loan terms.
(a) All loans provided under this part shall be due and payable in full at the earlier of:
(1) the projected life, in years, of the Eligible facility that is built or installed as a result of the Eligible Project carried out using funds from the loan, as determined by the Secretary; or
(2) Twenty-five (25) years after the date the loan is closed.
(b) Loans provided under the Part must bear a rate of interest that is equal to the rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration current market yields outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturity. This rate will be determined separately for each drawdown of the loan.
(c) A loan provided under this part may be subject to a deferral in repayment of principal for not more than 5 years after the date on which the Eligible facility that is built or installed as a result of the Eligible Project first begins operations, as determined by the Secretary.
(d)(1) The performance of all of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Documents shall be secured by, and shall have the priority in, such Security as provided for within the terms and conditions of the Loan Documents.
(2) Accordingly, the rule states that the Secretary must have a first lien or security interest in all property acquired with loan funds. This requirement may be waived only by the Secretary on a non-delegable basis. DOE must also have a lien on any other property of the applicant pledged to secure the loan.
(3) In the event of default, if recoveries from the property and revenues pledged to the repayment of the loan are insufficient to fully repay all principal and interest on the loan, then the Federal Government will have recourse to the assets and revenues of the Borrower to the same extent as senior unsecured general obligations of the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower will be required to pay at the time of the closing of the loan a fee equal to 10 basis points of the principal amount of the loan.
§ 611.108
Perfection of liens and preservation of collateral.
(a) The Agreement and other documents related thereto shall provide that:
(1) DOE and the Applicant, in conjunction with the Federal Financing
Bank if necessary, will take those actions necessary to perfect and maintain liens, as applicable, on assets which are pledged as collateral for the loan; and
(2) Upon default by the Borrower, the holder of pledged collateral shall take such actions as DOE may reasonably require to provide for the care, preservation, protection, and maintenance of such collateral so as to enable the United States to achieve maximum recovery from the pledged assets. DOE shall reimburse the holder of collateral for reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred in taking actions required by DOE.
(b) In the event of a default, DOE may enter into such contracts as the Secretary determines are required to preserve the collateral. The cost of such contracts may be charged to the Borrower.
§ 611.109
Audit and access to records.
(a) The Agreement and related documents shall provide that:
(1) DOE in conjunction with the Federal Financing Bank, as applicable, and the Borrower, shall keep such records concerning the project as are necessary, including the Application, Term Sheet, Conditional Commitment, Agreement, mortgage, note, disbursement requests and supporting documentation, financial statements, audit reports of independent accounting firms, lists of all project assets and non-project assets pledged as security for the loan, all off-take and other revenue producing agreements, documentation for all project indebtedness, income tax returns, technology agreements, documentation for all permits and regulatory approvals and all other documents and records relating to the Eligible Project, as determined by the Secretary, to facilitate an effective audit and performance evaluation of the project; and
(2) The Secretary and the Comptroller General, or their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any pertinent books, documents, papers and records of the Borrower or DOE, as applicable. Such inspection may be made during regular office hours of the Borrower or DOE, as applicable, or at any other time mutually convenient.
(b) The Secretary may from time to time audit any or all statements or certificates submitted to the Secretary. The Borrower will make available to the Secretary all books and records and other data available to the Borrower in order to permit the Secretary to carry out such audits. The Borrower should represent that it has within its rights access to all financial and operational records and data relating to the project financed by the loan, and agrees that it will, upon request by the Secretary, exercise such rights in order to make such financial and operational records and data available to the Secretary. In exercising its rights hereunder, the Secretary may utilize employees of other Federal agencies, independent accountants, or other persons.
(c) Loan funds are being expended efficiently and effectively if documentation submitted and audits conducted under this section demonstrate that the borrower is making appropriate progress toward achieving the purpose for which the loan was originally made.
§ 611.110
Assignment or transfer of loans.
(a) The Loan Documents may not be modified, in whole or in part, without the prior written approval of DOE.
(b) Upon prior written approval by DOE and the Federal Financing Bank, a certification by the assignor that the assignee is an Eligible Applicant as described in § 611.100 of this part, and subject to paragraph (c) of this section and other provisions of this part, a Borrower may assign or transfer its interest in a loan provided under this part, including the loan documents, to a party that qualifies as an Eligible Applicant.
(c) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to transfers which occur by operation of law.
§ 611.111
Default, demand, payment, and collateral liquidation.
(a) In the event that the Borrower has defaulted in the making of required payments of principal or interest, and such default has not been cured within the period of grace provided in the
Agreement, DOE may cause the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest thereon, and all amounts owed to the United States by Borrower pursuant to the Agreement, to become immediately due and payable by giving the Borrower written notice to such effect.
(b) In the event that the Borrower is in default as a result of a breach of one or more of the terms and conditions of the Agreement, note, mortgage, or other contractual obligations related to the transaction, other than the Borrower's obligation to pay principal or interest on the loan, and DOE determines, in writing, that such a default has materially affected the rights of the parties, the Borrower shall be given the period of grace provided in the Agreement to cure such default. If the default is not cured during the period of grace, DOE may cause the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest thereon, and all amounts owed to the United States by Borrower pursuant to the Agreement, to become immediately due and payable by giving the Borrower written notice to such effect.
(c) In the event that the Borrower has defaulted as described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section and such default is not cured during the grace period provided in the Agreement, DOE shall notify the U.S. Attorney General. DOE, acting through the U.S. Attorney General, may seek to foreclose on the collateral assets and/or take such other legal action as necessary for the protection of the Government.
(d) If DOE is awarded title to collateral assets pursuant to a foreclosure proceeding, DOE may take action to complete, maintain, operate, or lease the Eligible Facilities, or otherwise dispose of any property acquired pursuant to the Agreement or take any other necessary action which DOE deems appropriate.
(e) In addition to foreclosure and sale of collateral pursuant thereto, the U.S. Attorney General shall take appropriate action in accordance with rights contained in the Agreement to recover costs incurred by the Government as a result of the defaulted loan or other defaulted obligation. Any recovery so received by the U.S. Attorney General on behalf of the Government shall be applied in the following manner: First to the expenses incurred by the U.S. Attorney General and DOE in effecting such recovery; second, to reimbursement of any amounts paid by DOE as a result of the defaulted obligation; third, to any amounts owed to DOE under related principal and interest assistance contracts; and fourth, to any other lawful claims held by the Government on such process. Any sums remaining after full payment of the foregoing shall be available for the benefit of other parties lawfully entitled to claim them.
(f) In the event that DOE considers it necessary or desirable to protect or further the interest of the United States in connection with the liquidation of collateral or recovery of deficiencies due under the loan, DOE will take such action as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
§ 611.112
Termination of obligations.
DOE, the Federal Financing Bank, and the Borrower shall have such rights to terminate the Agreement as are set forth in the loan documents.

# Subpart C—Facility/Funding Awards
§ 611.200
Purpose and scope.
This subpart sets forth the policies and procedures applicable to the award and administration of grants by DOE for advanced technology vehicle manufacturing facilities as authorized by section 136(b) of the Energy Independence and Security Act (Pub. L. 110-140).
§ 611.201
Applicability.
Except as otherwise provided by this subpart, the award and administration of grants shall be governed by 10 CFR part 600 (DOE Financial Assistance Rules).
§ 611.202
Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Facility Award Program.
DOE may issue, under the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Facility Award Program, 10 CFR part 611, subpart C, awards for eligible projects.
§ 611.203
Eligibility.
In order to be eligible for an award, an applicant must be either—
(a) An automobile manufacturer that can demonstrate an improved fuel economy as specified in paragraph (b) of section 611.3, or
(b) A manufacturer of a qualifying component.
§ 611.204
Awards.
Awards issued for eligible projects shall be for an amount of no more than 30 percent of the eligible project costs.
§ 611.205
Period of award availability.
An award under section 611.204 shall apply to—
(a) Facilities and equipment placed in service before December 30, 2020; and
(b) Engineering integration costs incurred during the period beginning on December 19, 2007 and ending on December 30, 2020.
§ 611.206
Existing facilities.
The Secretary shall, in making awards to those manufacturers that have existing facilities, give priority to those facilities that are oldest or have been in existence for at least 20 years. Such facilities can currently be sitting idle.
§ 611.207
Small automobile and component manufacturers.
(a) In this section, the term “covered firm” means a firm that—
(1) Employs less than 500 individuals; and
(2) Manufactures automobiles or components of automobiles.
(b)
Set Aside
—Of the amount of funds that are used to provide awards for each fiscal year under this subpart, not less than 10 percent shall be used to provide awards to covered firms or consortia led by a covered firm.
§§ 611.208-611.209
[Reserved]
Pt. 612

# PART 612—RECAPTURE OF CIVIL NUCLEAR CREDITS
Sec.
612.1
Purpose.
612.2
Applicability.
612.3
Definitions.
612.4
Recapture.
612.5
Notice of recapture; request for reconsideration; effectiveness of recapture.
612.6
Petition to the Department's Office of Hearings and Appeals.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7254; 42 U.S.C. 18753.

# Source:
89 FR 871, Jan. 8, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 612.1
Purpose.
This part implements section 40323(g)(2) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58), codified at 42 U.S.C. 18753(g)(2), to set forth the procedure to recapture credits awarded pursuant to the civil nuclear credit program.
§ 612.2
Applicability.
This part applies to an owner/operator of a nuclear reactor that is awarded credits pursuant to the civil nuclear credit program.
§ 612.3
Definitions.
Award period
means the period beginning with the first day of the award year for which the owner/operator has been awarded credits up to and including the last day of the fourth award year thereafter.
Award year
means a 12-month period beginning on the effective date of the award of credits and each anniversary thereof during the award period.
CNC program
means the civil nuclear credit program established by the Secretary pursuant to section 40323 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58) codified at 42 U.S.C. 18753.
Credits
means the credits awarded to an owner/operator of a nuclear reactor projected to cease operations due to economic factors and certified by the Department as part of the CNC program.
Department
means the Department of Energy.
Nuclear reactor
means a nuclear power reactor unit with respect to which an owner/operator has been awarded credits pursuant to the civil nuclear credit program.
Owner/operator
means the owner or operator of a nuclear reactor that has been awarded credits pursuant to the civil nuclear credit program.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
§ 612.4
Recapture.
(a) Credits allocated to an owner/operator shall be subject to recapture—
(1) If the nuclear reactor terminates operations during the award period, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) At the conclusion of the award period, if the nuclear reactor would not have operated at an annual loss in the absence of the credits, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) If the Department determines that a nuclear reactor has terminated operations during the award period, then the Department will recapture the award of credits for the award year in which the termination of operations occurred and for any remaining award years by rescinding the credits awarded but not paid, and the owner/operator shall have no further rights to any credits. In addition, the value of credits that the Department has previously paid to the owner/operator with respect to a prior award year shall be repaid to the Department by the owner/operator if the Department determines that the nuclear reactor terminated operations as a result of the owner/operator's failure to adhere to prudent industry practice in the operation of the nuclear reactor during the award period.
(c) Following the conclusion of the award period, the Department will determine whether, for the award period, the nuclear reactor would not have operated at an annual loss in the absence of the credits. The amount subject to recapture following the conclusion of the award period shall be determined in the same manner that the annual adjustment of credits is calculated under the terms of the award of such credits.
§ 612.5
Notice of recapture; request for reconsideration; effectiveness of recapture.
(a)
Notice of recapture determination.
If pursuant to § 612.4, the Department determines that:
(1) An amount of credits not yet paid should be recaptured; and
(2) That any credits previously paid to the owner/operator should be recaptured, the Secretary will provide to an owner/operator a written notice of the amount of credits subject to the recapture determination and the value of credits that the Department has previously paid to an owner/operator and that are subject to recapture, if any, with an explanation of such amount.
(b)
Request for reconsideration.
Unless the Department extends the time period, within 30 calendar days of receipt of a notice of recapture provided to an owner/operator under paragraph (a) of this section, an owner/operator may submit a written request to the Department requesting reconsideration of the recapture determination. To request reconsideration of the recapture determination, an owner/operator must submit to the Department a written request that includes:
(1) An explanation of why the owner/operator believes all or some of the credits (and the value of any credits previously paid) should not be subject to recapture; and
(2) Supporting information and calculations.
(c)
Notification of final amount subject to recapture.
Unless the Department extends the time period, within 60 days of receipt of an owner/operator's request for reconsideration provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the owner/operator will be notified of the Department's decision to affirm, withdraw, or modify the notice of recapture. The notification will include an explanation of the decision, including responses to the owner/operator's supporting reasons and consideration of additional information provided.
(d)
Effectiveness of recapture.
(1) If the owner/operator has not requested reconsideration as provided in paragraph (b) of this section;
(i) The credits will be deemed to be recaptured as of the date of the notification provided by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and the owner/operator will have no further right or claim to those credits; and
(ii) The owner/operator shall repay to the Department the value of credits that the Department has paid to the owner/operator and that are subject to recapture under § 612.4 within 30 calendar days of the date of notification provided by the Department pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the owner/operator has requested reconsideration as provided in paragraph (b) of this section;
(i) The credits will be deemed to be recaptured as of the date of the notification provided by the Department pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section and the owner/operator will have no further right or claim to those credits; and
(ii) The owner/operator shall pay to the Department the value of credits that the Department has previously paid to the owner/operator and that are subject to recapture under § 612.4 within 30 calendar days of the date of notification provided by the Department pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Notice.
Notices issued by the Department under this section shall be made public by the Department, with the exception of any data or supporting documentation constituting confidential business information not subject to disclosure.
§ 612.6
Petition to the Department's Office of Hearings and Appeals.
In order to exhaust its administrative remedies, an owner/operator who is aggrieved by the Secretary's decision to affirm, withdraw, or modify the notice of recapture as provided in § 612.5(c) may file a petition with the Department's Office of Hearings and Appeals in accordance with 10 CFR 1003.11 not later than thirty days after notification of the Department's decision.

# SUBCHAPTER I—SALES REGULATION
Pt. 622

# PART 622—CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS
§ 622.103
Dispute provisions.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all DOE contracts for the sale of personal property to any organization outside the U.S. Government shall include a Disputes clause which provides for:
(1) Binding final decisions by the Contracting Officer, subject to appeal;
(2) Appeal rights pursuant to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978;
(3) Continuation of performance by the contractor at the direction of the contracting officer pending final resolution of the dispute.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) The provisions of this part shall not apply to contracts for sale of electric power by the Power Marketing Administrations;
(2) The Secretary may exempt a contract or class of contracts from this requirement upon determination that it would not be in the public interest in an individual contract or class of contracts with a foreign government, or agency thereof, or international organization, or subsidiary body thereof, to include the Disputes clause, as permitted by section 3 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978.
(c) The Energy Board of Contract Appeals (EBCA) has cognizance over disputes relating to DOE Sales contracts.
(d) The Disputes clause in § 624.102-4 shall be used in accordance with this § 622.103.
(Sec. 644, Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 599 (42 U.S.C. 7254))
[46 FR 34559, July 2, 1981]
Pt. 624

# PART 624—CONTRACT CLAUSES
§ 624.102-4
Disputes.
The following clause shall be used in accordance with the provisions of § 622.103:

# Disputes
(a) This contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
). If a dispute arises relating to the contract, the purchaser may submit a claim to the Contracting Officer who shall issue a written decision on the dispute.
(b)
Claim
means:
(1) A written request submitted to the Contracting Officer;
(2) For payment of money, adjustment of contract terms, or other relief;
(3) Which is in dispute or remains unresolved after a reasonable time for its review and disposition by the Government; and
(4) For which a Contracting Officer's decision is demanded.
(c) In the case of disputed requests or amendments to such requests for payment exceeding $50,000, or with any amendment causing the total request in dispute to exceed $50,000, the purchaser shall certify, at the time of submission of a claim, as follows:
I certify that the claim is made in good faith, that the supporting data is accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief, and that the amount requested accurately reflects the contract adjustment for which the Purchaser believes the Government is liable.
(Purchaser's Name)
(Title)
(d) The Government shall pay the Purchaser interest.
(1) On the amount found due to the purchaser and unpaid on claims submitted under this clause;
(2) At the rates fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury;
(3) From the date the amount is due until the Government makes payment.
(e) The purchaser shall pay the Government interest:
(1) On the amount found due to the Government and unpaid on claims submitted under this clause;
(2) At the rates fixed by the Department of Energy for the payment of interest on past due accounts;
(3) From the date the amount is due until the purchaser makes payment.
(f) The decision of the Contracting Officer shall be final and conclusive and not subject to review by any forum, tribunal, or Government agency unless an appeal or action is timely commenced within the times specified by the Contract Disputes Act of 1978.
(g) The purchaser shall comply with any decision of the Contracting Officer and at the direction of the Contracting Officer shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract pending final resolution of any request for relief, claim, appeal, or action related to this contract.
(Sec. 644, Department of Energy Organization Act, Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 599 (42 U.S.C. 7254))
Pt. 625

# PART 625—PRICE COMPETITIVE SALE OF STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE PETROLEUM
Sec.
625.1
Application and purpose.
625.2
Definitions.
625.3
Standard sales provisions.
625.4
Publication of the Standard Sales Provisions.
625.5
Failure to perform in accordance with SPR Contracts of Sale.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 761; 42 U.S.C. 7101; 42 U.S.C. 6201.

# Source:
48 FR 56541, Dec. 21, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 625.1
Application and purpose.
This part shall apply to all price competitive sales of SPR petroleum by DOE. This section provides the rules for developing standard contract terms and conditions and financial and performance responsibility measures; notifying potential purchasers of those terms, conditions and measures; choosing applicable terms, conditions and measures for each sale of SPR petroleum; and notifying potential purchasers of which terms, conditions and measures will be applicable to particular sales of SPR petroleum.
§ 625.2
Definitions.
(a)
DOE.
DOE is the Department of Energy established by Public Law 95-91 (42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
) and any component thereof including the SPR Office.
(b)
Notice of Sale.
The Notice of Sale is the document announcing the sale of SPR petroleum, the amount, type and location of the petroleum being sold, the delivery period and the procedures for submitting offers. The Notice of Sale will specify which contractual provisions and financial and performance responsibility measures are applicable to that particular sale of petroleum, and will provide other pertinent information.
(c)
Petroleum.
Petroleum means crude oil, residual fuel oil or any refined petroleum product (including any natural gas liquid and any natural gas liquid product) owned or contracted for by DOE and in storage in any permanent SPR facility, or temporarily stored in other storage facilities, or in transit to such facilities (including petroleum under contract but not yet delivered to a loading terminal).
(d)
Price Competitive Sale.
A price competitive sale of SPR petroleum is one in which contract awards are made to those responsive, responsible persons offering the highest prices; sales conducted pursuant to rules adopted under section 161(e) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), Public Law 94-163 (42 U.S.C. 6201
et seq.
), are not price competitive sales.
(e)
Purchaser.
A purchaser is any person or entity (including a Government agency) which enters into a contract with DOE to purchase SPR petroleum.
(f)
SPR.
SPR is the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, that program of the Department of Energy established by title I, part B of EPCA.
(g)
Standard Sales Provisions.
The Standard Sales Provisions are a set of terms and conditions of sale, which may contain or describe financial and performance responsibility measures, for petroleum sold from the SPR under this part.
§ 625.3
Standard sales provisions.
(a)
Contents.
The Standards Sales Provisions shall contain contract clauses which may be applicable to price competitive sales of SPR petroleum, including terms and conditions of sale, and purchaser financial and performance responsibility measures, or descriptions thereof. At his discretion, the Secretary or his designee may specify in a Notice of Sale which of such terms and conditions, or financial
and performance responsibility measures, shall apply to a particular sale of SPR petroleum; and, he may specify any revisions in such terms, conditions and measures, and any additional terms, conditions and measures which shall be applicable to that sale, that are consistent with the SPR Drawdown Plan adopted on December 1, 1982.
(b)
Acceptance by offerors.
All offerors must, as part of their offers for SPR petroleum in response to a Notice of Sale, agree without exception to all contractual provisions and financial and performance responsibility measures which the Notice of Sale makes applicable to the particular sale.
(c)
Award of contracts.
No contract for the sale of SPR petroleum may be awarded to any offeror who has not unconditionally agreed to all contractual provisions and financial and performance responsibility measures which the Notice of Sale makes applicable to the particular sale.
(d)
Contract documents.
The terms and conditions which the Notice of Sale makes applicable to a particular sale may be incorporated into a contract for the sale of SPR petroleum by reference to the Notice of Sale.
§ 625.4
Publication of the Standard Sales Provisions.
(a)
Publication.
The Standard Sales Provisions shall be published on the U.S. Department of Energy Strategic Petroleum Reserve website (
https://www.energy.gov/fe/services/petroleum-reserves/strategic-petroleum-reserve
).
(b)
Revisions of the Standard Sales Provisions.
The Standard Sales Provisions shall be reviewed on a continuous basis and republished on the Department of Energy Strategic Petroleum Reserve website. Notification of revisions of the Standard Sales Provisions shall be made in the
Federal Register
and sent to existing registered users in the SPR sales system.
(c)
Notification of applicable clauses.
The Notice of Sale will specify, by referencing the Department of Energy Strategic Petroleum Reserve website, which contractual terms and conditions and contractor financial and performance responsibility measures contained or described therein are applicable to that particular sale.
[84 FR 8794, Mar. 12, 2019]
§ 625.5
Failure to perform in accordance with SPR Contracts of Sale.
(a)
Ineligibility.
In addition to any remedies available to the Government under the Contract of Sale, in the event that a purchaser fails to perform in accordance with applicable SPR petroleum sale contractual provisions, and such failure is not excused by those provisions, the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official, at his discretion, may make such purchaser ineligible for future awards of SPR petroleum sales contracts.
(b)
Determination of ineligibility.
No purchaser shall be made ineligible for the award of any SPR sales contract prior to notice and opportunity to respond in accordance with the requirements of this subsection.
(1) Upon the determination that a purchaser is to be considered for ineligibility, the purchaser shall be sent by certified mail return receipt requested, the following:
(i) Notification that the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official is considering making the purchaser ineligible for future awards;
(ii) Identification of the SPR sales contract which the purchaser failed to comply with, along with a brief description of the events and circumstances relating to such failure;
(iii) Advice that the purchaser may submit in writing for consideration by the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official in determining whether or not to impose ineligibility on the purchaser, any information or argument in opposition to the ineligibility; and
(iv) Advice that such information or argument in opposition to the ineligibility must be submitted within a certain time in order to be considered by the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official, such time to be not less than 21 days.
(2) After elapse of the time period established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for receipt of the purchaser's response, the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official, at his discretion, and after consideration of the purchaser's written response, if any, may
make the purchaser ineligible for future awards of SPR petroleum sales contracts. Such ineligibility shall continue for the time period determined by the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official, as appropriate under the circumstances.
(3) The purchaser shall be notified of the Headquarters Senior Procurement Official's decision.
(c)
Reconsideration.
Any purchaser who has been excluded from participating in any SPR sale under paragraph (a) may request that the Headquarters Senior Procurement Offical reconsider the purchaser's ineligibility. The Headquarters Senior Procurement Official, at his discretion, may reinstate any such purchaser to eligibility for future competitive sales.
Pt. 626

# PART 626—PROCEDURES FOR ACQUISITION OF PETROLEUM FOR THE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE
Sec.
626.1
Purpose.
626.2
Definitions.
626.3
Applicability.
626.4
General acquisition strategy.
626.5
Acquisition procedures—general.
626.6
Acquiring petroleum products by purchase.
626.7
Acquiring petroleum products by exchange.
626.8
Deferrals of contractually scheduled deliveries.
626.9
Suspension and pre-drawdown diversion.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 6240(c); 42 U.S.C. 7101,
et seq.

# Source:
87 FR 64372, Oct. 25, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 626.1
Purpose.
This part establishes the procedures for acquiring petroleum products for, and deferring contractually scheduled deliveries to, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The procedures do not represent actual terms and conditions to be contained in the contracts for the acquisition of SPR petroleum products.
§ 626.2
Definitions.
Backwardation
means a market situation in which prices are progressively lower in succeeding delivery months than in earlier months.
Contango
means a market situation in which prices are progressively higher in the succeeding delivery months than in earlier months.
Contract
means the agreement under which DOE acquires SPR petroleum products, consisting of the solicitation, the contract form signed by both parties, the successful offer, and any subsequent modifications, including those granting requests for deferrals.
Contracting Officer
means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings, including entering into sales contracts on behalf of the Government. The term includes certain authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer acting within the limits of their authority as delegated by the Contracting Officer.
DEAR
means the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation.
Deferral
means a process whereby petroleum products scheduled for delivery to the SPR in a specific contract period is rescheduled for later delivery, outside of that period, and encompasses the future delivery of the originally scheduled quantity plus an in-kind premium.
DOE
means the Department of Energy and includes any of its subsidiary offices, such as the Office of Petroleum Reserves (OPR) and the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Program Management Office.
Exchange
means a process whereby petroleum products owned by or due to the SPR are provided to an entity or requestor in return for petroleum products of comparable quality plus a premium quantity of petroleum products (in barrels)—or another form of premium as permitted by law—delivered to the SPR in the future, or when SPR petroleum products are traded for petroleum products of a different quality preferred by DOE for operational reasons based on the relative values of the quantities traded.
FAR
means the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
Government
means the United States Government and includes DOE as its representative.
OPR
means the Office of Petroleum Reserves within DOE, whose responsibilities include the operation of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
Petroleum products
means crude oil, residual fuel oil, or any refined product (including any natural gas liquid, and any natural gas liquid product) owned, or contracted for, by DOE and in storage in any permanent SPR facility, or temporarily stored in other storage facilities.
Premium
means the additional amount of petroleum product (in barrels)—or another form of payment as permitted by law—that must be delivered to the SPR above the principal amount of petroleum product owed to SPR in the case of an exchange or a deferred contractually scheduled delivery. The premium may include a calculation based on a rate set by DOE and duration of time until the SPR receives the petroleum product.
Requestor
is an entity that makes an emergency request under § 626.7(b).
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
Solicitation
means the written request by DOE for submission of offers or quotations to DOE for the acquisition of petroleum products.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve
or
SPR
means the reserve for the storage of up to 1 billion barrels of petroleum products established by Title I, Part B, of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, 42 U.S.C. 6201
et seq.
§ 626.3
Applicability.
The procedures in this part apply to the acquisition of petroleum products by DOE for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve through purchase or exchange, as well as to deferrals of contractually scheduled deliveries.
§ 626.4
General acquisition strategy.
(a)
Criteria for commencing acquisition.
DOE shall consider the following factors prior to commencing acquisition of petroleum products for the SPR:
(1) The current inventory of the SPR;
(2) The current level of private inventories;
(3) Days of net import protection;
(4) Current price levels for petroleum products and related commodities, the ability to minimize costs and avoid incurring excessive costs in acquisition, and the possible effect on consumer and market prices of any SPR acquisition;
(5) The outlook for international and domestic production levels;
(6) Existing or potential disruptions in supply or refining capability;
(7) The level of market volatility;
(8) Futures market price differentials for petroleum products and related commodities;
(9) The need to protect national security; and
(10) Any other factor the Secretary deems necessary or appropriate to consider.
(b)
Review of rate of acquisition.
DOE shall review the appropriate rate of petroleum product acquisition each time an open market acquisition has been suspended for more than three months.
(c)
Acquisition through other Federal agencies.
DOE may enter into arrangements with another Federal agency for that agency to acquire petroleum products for the SPR on behalf of DOE.
§ 626.5
Acquisition procedures—general.
(a)
Notice of acquisition.
(1) Except when DOE has determined there is good cause to do otherwise, DOE shall provide advance public notice of its intent to acquire petroleum products for the SPR. The notice of acquisition will, to the extent feasible, include the general terms and details of DOE's petroleum products acquisition and inform the public of DOE's overall fill goals.
(2) The notice of acquisition will generally include the:
(i) Manner of acquisition;
(ii) Time period for solicitations;
(iii) Quantity of petroleum products sought;
(iv) Minimum petroleum product quality requirements;
(v) Time period for delivery;
(vi) Acceptable delivery locations; and
(vii) Instructions for the offer process.
(b)
Manner of acquisition.
(1) DOE shall specify the manner of petroleum product acquisition, either purchase or exchange, in the notice of acquisition.
(2) DOE shall, to the greatest extent practicable, determine the manner of
petroleum product acquisition after considering:
(i) The availability of appropriated funds;
(ii) Minimization of costs;
(iii) Minimization of the Nation's vulnerability to a severe energy supply interruption;
(iv) Minimization of the impact to supply levels and market forces;
(v) Whether the manner of acquisition would encourage competition in the petroleum industry; and
(vi) Other considerations DOE deems to be relevant.
(c)
Solicitation.
(1) To secure the economic benefit and security of a diversified base of potential suppliers of petroleum products to the SPR, DOE shall maintain a listing, developed through online registration, direct requests to DOE, and outreach to potential suppliers by DOE. Upon the issuance of a solicitation, DOE shall notify potential suppliers via their registered email addresses.
(2) DOE shall make the solicitation publicly available on the website of the OPR:
www.spr.doe.gov.
(d)
Timing and duration of solicitation.
(1) DOE shall determine petroleum products requirements on nominal six-month cycles, and shall review and update these requirements prior to each solicitation cycle.
(2) Unless termination rights are explicitly waived by DOE, DOE may terminate any solicitations and contracts pertaining to the acquisition or exchange of petroleum products at the convenience of the Government, and in such event shall not be responsible for any costs incurred by suppliers, other than costs for petroleum products delivered to the SPR and for reasonable, customary, and applicable costs incurred by the supplier in the performance of a valid contract for delivery before the effective date of termination of such contract. In no event shall the Government be liable for consequential damages or the entity's lost profits as a result of such termination.
(e)
Quality.
(1) DOE shall define minimum petroleum product quality specifications for the SPR. DOE shall include such specifications in acquisition solicitations, and shall make them available on the website of the OPR:
www.spr.doe.gov.
(2) DOE shall periodically review the quality specifications to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, the petroleum product mix in storage matches the demand of the United States refining system.
(f)
Quantity.
In determining the quantities of petroleum products to be delivered to the SPR, DOE shall:
(1) Take into consideration market conditions and the availability of transportation systems; and
(2) Seek to avoid adversely affecting other market participants or petroleum product market fundamentals.
(g)
Offer and evaluation procedures.
(1) Each solicitation shall provide necessary instructions on offer format and submission procedures. The details of the offer, evaluation, and award procedures may vary depending on the method of acquisition.
(2) DOE may use relative values and time differentials to manage acquisition and delivery schedules to reduce acquisition costs.
(3) DOE may evaluate offers based on prevailing market prices of specific petroleum products, and shall award contracts on a competitive basis.
(4) Whether acquisition is by purchase or exchange, DOE may use a price index to account for fluctuations in absolute and relative market prices at the time of delivery to reduce market risk to all parties throughout the contract term.
(h)
Scheduling and delivery.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section, DOE shall accept offers for petroleum products delivered to specified SPR storage sites via pipeline or as waterborne cargos delivered to the terminals serving those sites.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section, DOE shall generally establish schedules that allow for evenly spaced deliveries of economically sized marine and pipeline shipments within the constraints of SPR site and commercial facilities receipt capabilities.
(3) DOE shall strive to maximize U.S. flag carrier utilization through the terms of its supply contracts.
(4) DOE reserves the right to accept offers for other methods of delivery if,
in DOE's sole judgment, market conditions and logistical constraints require such other methods.
§ 626.6
Acquiring petroleum products by purchase.
(a)
General.
For the purchase of petroleum products, DOE shall, through certified contracting officers, conduct petroleum product acquisitions in accordance with the competitive principles of the FAR and the DEAR.
(b)
Acquisition strategy.
(1) DOE solicitations:
(i) May be either continuously open or fixed for a period of time; and
(ii) May provide either for immediate delivery or for delivery at future dates.
(2) DOE may alter the acquisition plan to take advantage of differentials in prices for different qualities of petroleum products, based on a consideration of factors, including the availability of storage capacity in the SPR sites, the logistics of changing delivery streams, and the availability of ships, pipelines, and terminals to move and receive the petroleum products.
(3) Based on the market analysis described in paragraph (d) of this section, DOE may refuse offers or suspend the acquisition process on the basis of Government estimates projecting substantially lower petroleum product prices in the future than those contained in offers. If DOE determines there is a high probability that the cost to the Government can be reduced without significantly affecting national energy security goals, DOE may either contract for delivery at a future date or delay purchases to take advantage of the projected lower future prices. Conversely, DOE may increase the rate of purchases if prices fall below recent price trends or futures markets present a significant contango and prices offer the opportunity to reduce the average cost of petroleum product acquisitions in anticipation of higher future prices.
(4) Based on the market analysis described in paragraph (d) of this section, DOE may refuse offers, decrease the rate of purchase, or suspend the acquisition process if DOE determines acquisition will add significant upward pressure to prices either regionally or on a world-wide basis. DOE may consider recent price changes, private inventory levels, petroleum product acquisition by other stockpiling entities, the outlook for world petroleum products production, incipient disruptions of supply or refining capability, logistical problems for moving petroleum products, macroeconomic factors, and any other considerations that may be pertinent to the balance of petroleum product supply and demand.
(c)
Fill requirements determination.
DOE shall develop SPR fill requirements for each solicitation based on an assessment of national energy security goals, the availability of storage capacity, and the need for specific grades and quantities of petroleum products.
(d)
Market analysis.
(1) DOE shall establish a market value for each petroleum product to be acquired based on a market analysis at the time of contract award.
(2) DOE may consider prices on futures markets, spot markets, recent price movements, current and projected shipping rates, forecasts by the DOE Energy Information Administration, and any other analytic tools available to DOE to determine the most desirable purchase profile.
(3) DOE may also consider factors including recent price changes, private inventory levels, petroleum product acquisition by other stockpiling entities, the outlook for world petroleum product production, disruptions of supply or refining capability, logistical problems for moving petroleum products, macroeconomic factors, and any other considerations that may be pertinent relevant to the balance of petroleum product supply and demand.
(e)
Evaluation of offers.
(1) DOE shall evaluate offers using:
(i) The criteria and requirements stated in the solicitation; and
(ii) The market analysis under paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) DOE shall require financial guarantees from the contracting entity, in the form of a letter of credit or equivalent financial assurance.
§ 626.7
Acquiring petroleum products by exchange.
(a)
General.
DOE may, through certified contracting officers, conduct petroleum product acquisitions through the exchange of petroleum products.
Exchanges are conducted through emergency requests or by solicitation.
(b)
Emergency requests.
(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of § 626.5, the requirements of this subsection shall control all exchanges by emergency request.
(2) At any point, in the event of an emergency, a requestor may request, in writing, for an exchange of petroleum product from the SPR.
(3) All requests shall include the following:
(i) A justification of need that describes:
(A) The emergency event,
(B) The emergency event's impact on the requestor, and
(C) The requestor's inability to acquire petroleum product from an alternative source;
(ii) The quantity of petroleum product (in barrels) requested;
(iii) The quality specifications of petroleum product requested; and
(iv) The anticipated duration of the emergency event.
(4) Upon receipt of an emergency request, DOE will verify the emergency, evaluate the need, and assess the market to ensure there is no alternative source of petroleum products available to the requester. DOE, in its sole discretion, may approve or disapprove any emergency request.
(5) Upon approval of an emergency request, DOE may enter into contract negotiations with the requestor.
(6) Repayment to the SPR for an exchange by emergency request shall be in the form of barrels of petroleum products, or another form of repayment as permitted by law, and shall include the following to be returned to the SPR by the contracted date:
(i) The principal amount of petroleum products provided to the requestor;
(ii) A premium; and
(iii) Costs incurred by DOE in conducting the emergency request.
(c)
Solicitation for exchange.
(1) A solicitation for exchange:
(i) May be either continuously open or fixed for a period of time;
(ii) Shall advertise the quantity and quality specification of petroleum product available for exchange;
(iii) May provide either for immediate delivery or for delivery at future dates to a bidding entity;
(iv) May, in DOE's sole discretion, include a rate table from which offerors may offer dates for repayment; and
(v) May require financial guarantees from offerors in the form of a letter of credit or equivalent financial assurance to accompany their bids.
(2) In conducting the bidding and selection process:
(i) Offerors shall follow the instructions to offerors included in the solicitation;
(ii) DOE shall evaluate and select bids that best support national energy security goals, the availability of petroleum products and storage capacity, and need for specific grades and quantities of petroleum products; and
(iii) Upon selection of a successful bid, DOE shall notify the apparently successful offeror.
(3) Repayment to the SPR for an exchange by solicitation shall be in the form of barrels of petroleum products or another form of repayment as permitted by law, and may be calculated based on any rate table, if applicable, and shall include the following:
(i) Principal amount of petroleum product owed to SPR in the case of an exchange or a deferred contractually scheduled delivery;
(ii) Costs incurred by DOE in conducting the exchange; and
(iii) A premium for each prospective date for repayment.
(4) Based on the market analysis described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, DOE may refuse offers, decrease the rate of acquisition, or suspend the exchange process if DOE determines acquisition will add significant upward pressure to prices either regionally or on a worldwide basis. DOE may consider recent price changes, private inventory levels, petroleum product acquisition by other stockpiling entities, the outlook for world petroleum products production, incipient disruptions of supply or refining capability, logistical problems for moving petroleum products, macroeconomic factors, and any other considerations that may be pertinent to the balance of petroleum product supply and demand.
(5) Market analysis:
(i) DOE shall establish a market value for each petroleum product to be acquired based on a market analysis at the time of contract award.
(ii) DOE may consider prices on futures markets, spot markets, recent price movements, current and projected shipping rates, forecasts by the DOE Energy Information Administration, and any other analytic tools available to DOE to determine the most desirable purchase profile.
(iii) DOE may also consider factors including recent price changes, private inventory levels, petroleum product acquisition by other stockpiling entities, the outlook for world petroleum product production, disruptions of supply or refining capability, logistical problems for moving petroleum products, macroeconomic factors, and any other considerations that may be pertinent relevant to the balance of petroleum product supply and demand.
§ 626.8
Deferrals of contractually scheduled deliveries.
(a)
General.
(1) DOE prefers to take deliveries of petroleum products for the SPR at times scheduled under applicable contracts. However, in the event the market is distorted by disruption to supply or other factors, DOE may defer scheduled deliveries or consider deferral requests from awardees.
(2) An awardee seeking to defer scheduled deliveries of petroleum products to the SPR may submit a deferral request to DOE.
(b)
Deferral criteria.
DOE shall only grant a deferral request for negotiation under paragraph (c) of this section if it determines that DOE can receive a premium for the deferral and, based on DOE's deferral analysis, that at least one of the following conditions exists:
(1) DOE can reduce the cost of its petroleum products acquisition per barrel and increase the volume of petroleum products being delivered to the SPR by means of the premium barrels required by the deferral process;
(2) DOE anticipates private inventories are approaching a point where unscheduled outages may occur;
(3) There is evidence that refineries are reducing their run rates for lack of feedstock; or
(4) There is an unanticipated disruption to petroleum product supply.
(c)
Negotiating terms.
(1) If DOE decides to negotiate a deferral of deliveries, DOE shall estimate the market value of the deferral and establish a strategy for negotiating with suppliers the minimum percentage of the market value to be taken by the Government. During these negotiations, if the deferral request was initiated by DOE, DOE may consider any reasonable, customary, and applicable costs already incurred by the supplier in the performance of a valid contract for delivery. In no event shall such consideration account for any consequential damages or lost profits suffered by the supplier as a result of such deferral.
(2) DOE shall only agree to amend the contract if the negotiation results in an agreement to give the Government a fair and reasonable share of the market value.
§ 626.9
Suspension and pre-drawdown diversion.
Where the Secretary has found that a severe energy supply interruption may be imminent, the Secretary may suspend any previously announced or contracted acquisition of any petroleum product by the SPR or injection of petroleum products into the SPR; or sell any petroleum product acquired for injection into the SPR that has not yet been injected into the SPR.
PARTS 627-699 [RESERVED]
10 CFR Ch. III (1-1-25 Edition)
Department of Energy

# CHAPTER III—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Part
Page
700-705
[Reserved]
706
Security policies and practices relating to labor-management relations
293
707
Workplace substance abuse programs at DOE sites
295
708
DOE contractor employee protection program
305
709
Counterintelligence evaluation program
316
710
Procedures for determining eligibility for access to classified matter and special nuclear material or eligibility to hold a sensitive position
326
712
Human reliability program
341
715
Definition of nonrecourse project-financed
360
719
Contractor legal management requirements
360
725
Permits for access to restricted data
372
727
Consent for access to information on Department of Energy computers
382
733
Allegations of research misconduct
384
745
Protection of human subjects
385
760
Domestic Uranium Program
403
765
Reimbursement for costs of remedial action at active uranium and thorium processing sites
406
766
Uranium enrichment decontamination and decommissioning fund; procedures for special assessment of domestic utilities
415
770
Transfer of real property at defense nuclear facilities for economic development
418
780
Patent Compensation Board regulations
422
781
DOE patent licensing regulations
430
782
Claims for patent and copyright infringement
432
783
Waiver of patent rights
434
784
Patent waiver regulation
435
800
Loans for bid or proposal preparation by minority business enterprises seeking DOE contracts and assistance
446
810
Assistance to foreign atomic energy activities
454
820
Procedural rules for DOE nuclear activities
468
824
Procedural rules for the assessment of civil penalties for classified information security violations
496
830
Nuclear safety management
508
835
Occupational radiation protection
522
840
Extraordinary nuclear occurrences
557
850
Chronic beryllium disease prevention program
560
851
Worker safety and health program
576
860
Trespassing on Department of Energy property
608
861
Control of traffic at Nevada Test Site
609
862
Restrictions on aircraft landing and air delivery at Department of Energy nuclear sites
611
871
Air transportation of plutonium
613
900
Coordination of Federal authorizations for electric transmission facilities
614
903
Power and transmission rates
639
904
General regulations for the charges for the sale of power from the Boulder Canyon Project
645
905
Energy Planning and Management Program
651
950
Standby support for certain nuclear plant delays
666
955
[Reserved]
960
General guidelines for the preliminary screening of potential sites for a nuclear waste repository
681
961
Standard contract for disposal of spent nuclear fuel and/or high-level radioactive waste
712
962
Byproduct material
731
963
Yucca Mountain site suitability guidelines
732
964-999
[Reserved]
PARTS 700-705 [RESERVED]
Pt. 706

# PART 706—SECURITY POLICIES AND PRACTICES RELATING TO LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

# General
Sec.
706.1
Purpose.
706.2
Basis and scope.

# Security Policies and Procedures in National Labor Relations Board Proceedings
706.10
Policy.
706.11
Consent elections.
706.12
Administrative Law Judges.
706.13
Clearance of counsel.
706.14
DOE's role in proceedings.

# Loyalty of Participants
706.20
Policy.

# Contract Negotiation and Administration
706.30
Clearance of certain local union representatives.
706.31
Clearance of conciliators and arbitrators.
706.32
Security indoctrination of non-employee representatives.
706.40
Final responsibility of DOE in security matters.

# Authority:
Sec. 161, 68 Stat. 948, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 2201.

# Source:
41 FR 56776, Dec. 30, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 706.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth Department of Energy, hereinafter “DOE,” security policies and practices in the area of labor-management relations.
§ 706.2
Basis and scope.
The specific policies contained in this part are worked out within the framework of DOE's general objectives for labor-management relations in the DOE program, namely:
(a) Wholehearted acceptance by contractors and by labor and its representatives of the moral responsibility inherent in participation in the DOE program;
(b) Development of procedures to assure (1) that all participants in the program are loyal to the United States including those whose participation involves the exercise of negotiating and disciplinary authority over bargaining units, and (2) that determination of unit, jurisdiction, and similar questions will not breach security;
(c) Continuity of production at vital DOE installations;
(d) Consistent with DOE's responsibility under the law, the least possible governmental interference with the efficient management expected from DOE contractors;
(e) Minimum interference with the traditional rights and privileges of American labor.

# Security Policies and Procedures in National Labor Relations Board Proceedings
§ 706.10
Policy.
It is policy of DOE that NLRB cases falling within the scope of the Labor Management Relations Act at the various DOE installations should be conducted in normal fashion whereever possible, on the basis of open hearings, unclassified records and published decisions. This policy does not preclude adoption of special arrangements which may be required for reasons of program security at any stage of the proceedings in particular areas.
§ 706.11
Consent elections.
In accordance with the recommendation of the President's Commission on Labor Relations in the Atomic Energy Installations, it is the policy of DOE to encourage every effort by management and labor at DOE installations to determine bargaining units and representatives by agreement and consent elections in preference to contested proceedings before the National Labor Relations Board.
§ 706.12
Administrative Law Judges.
By agreement with the National Labor Relations Board, a panel of cleared NLRB administrative law judges is maintained to facilitate resolution of questions as to the materiality of classified information in NLRB hearings and to facilitate preparation of an unclassified record. The assignment of individual administrative law judges to DOE cases remains a matter
within the discretion of the National Labor Relations Board.
§ 706.13
Clearance of counsel.
It is recognized that clearance of counsel for the parties is sometimes desirable for proper preparation of a case even though the record is to be unclassified. Clearance of counsel makes possible their participation in any closed discussions needed preparatory to making an unclassified record. Each party is responsible for requesting clearance of its counsel well in advance so that clearance requirements will not delay the proceeding. The clearance of temporary special counsel will be terminated on completion of the proceeding.
§ 706.14
DOE's role in proceedings.
If controversies within the scope of the Labor Management Relations Act arise which cannot be adjusted by mutual agreement, and contested proceedings before NLRB result, each party to such proceedings will present his own position and the evidence in support thereof with due regard for existing security rules. DOE will be continuously informed of the progress of such proceedings and will act as may appear desirable (a) to assure the protection of classified information; (b) to assure that material and relevant information is not withheld from the record on grounds of security if such information can be supplied in unclassified form; and (c) to assist in determining appropriate action where a decision may turn on data which can be expressed only in classified form.

# Loyalty of Participants
§ 706.20
Policy.
Loyalty to the United States is a paramount factor applicable to all participants in DOE program including those whose participation (although not requiring access to restricted data) involves the exercise of administrative, negotiating and disciplinary authority over bargaining units composed of employees engaged on classified work. Individuals involved in questions of loyalty will be given full opportunity to explore the questions with DOE. DOE will take such further steps as may be appropriate in the circumstances.

# Contract Negotiation and Administration
§ 706.30
Clearance of certain local union representatives.
It is recognized that security clearance of certain union representatives may be necessary to assure opportunity for effective representation of employees in collective bargaining relationships with DOE contractors. Accordingly, DOE managers may authorize investigation for “Q” clearance of union officials whose functions as representatives of employees may reasonably be expected to require access to Restricted Data under NLRB and other procedures according to applicable law (LMRA, 1947); to effectively perform their representation functions in the resolution of grievances and in other collective bargaining relationships with contractors; to effectuate the recommendation of the President's Commission on Labor Relations in the Atomic Energy Installations in respect to integration of the union into the plant organization “as to two-way channel of communication and a medium of understanding between management and workers”.
(a) In the pre-contract stage of union-management relations, the requirements of the Labor Management Relations Act normally will be the applicable criteria for determining which bargaining representatives, if any, will need access to classified material in the exercise of their functions as employee representatives.
(b) After a bargaining relationship has been established between the contractor and the representatives of its employees the nature of this relationship and the procedures followed in it normally will be the controlling criteria for determination of the access to be granted to particular persons in carrying out their functions as employee representatives. For example, many contract grievance procedures designate by title certain union and management officials who are to have definite roles in the resolution of grievances under the procedure. Investigation for “Q” clearance will normally be
in order for such officials, both company and union, employee, and non-employee. In addition, persons not so designated may be investigated for clearance where the company and the union advise DOE manager that their established relationships contemplate access for such persons.
§ 706.31
Clearance of conciliators and arbitrators.
Conciliators and arbitrators who are regularly assigned to DOE cases may be processed for “Q” clearance at the discretion of the local DOE manager, either on the manager's initiative or at the request of a contractor.
§ 706.32
Security indoctrination of non-employee representatives.
All collective bargaining representatives, company and union, who are to have access to Restricted Data, will be given appropriate security indoctrination.
§ 706.40
Final responsibility of DOE in security matters.
On all matters of security at all Government-owned, privately operated DOE installations, DOE retains absolute and final authority, and neither the security rules nor their administration are matters for collective bargaining between management and labor, insofar as DOE security regulations affect the collective bargaining process, the security policies and regulations will be made known to both parties. To the fullest extent feasible DOE will consult with representatives of management and labor in formulating security rules and regulations that affect the collective bargaining process.
Pt. 707

# PART 707—WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS AT DOE SITES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
707.1
Purpose.
707.2
Scope.
707.3
Policy.
707.4
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Procedures
707.5
Submission, approval, and implementation of a baseline workplace substance abuse program.
707.6
Employee assistance, education, and training.
707.7
Random drug testing requirements and identification of testing designated positions.
707.8
Applicant drug testing.
707.9
Drug testing as a result of an occurrence.
707.10
Drug testing for reasonable suspicion of illegal drug use.
707.11
Drugs for which testing is performed.
707.12
Specimen collection, handling, and laboratory analysis for drug testing.
707.13
Medical review of results of tests for illegal drug use.
707.14
Action pursuant to a determination of illegal drug use.
707.15
Collective bargaining.
707.16
Records.
707.17
Permissible actions in the event of contractor noncompliance.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 8102
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 2012, 2013, 2051, 2061, 2165, 2201b, 2201i, and 2201p; 42 U.S.C. 5814 and 5815; 42 U.S.C. 7151, 7251, 7254, and 7256; 50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.

# Source:
57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 707.1
Purpose.
The Department of Energy (DOE) promulgates this part in order to protect the environment, maintain public health and safety, and safeguard the national security. This part establishes policies, criteria, and procedures for developing and implementing programs that help to maintain a workplace free from the use of illegal drugs. It applies to DOE contractors and subcontractors performing work at sites owned or controlled by DOE and operated under the authority of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and to individuals with unescorted access to the control areas of certain DOE reactors. The procedures include detection of the use of illegal drugs by current or prospective contractor employees in testing designated positions.
§ 707.2
Scope.
(a) This part applies to the following contracts with DOE, at sites owned or controlled by DOE which are operated
under the authority of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended:
(1) Management and operating contracts; and
(2) Other contracts or subcontracts with a value of $25,000 or more, and which have been determined by DOE to involve:
(i) Access to or handling of classified information or special nuclear materials;
(ii) High risk of danger to life, the environment, public health and safety, or national security; or
(iii) Transportation of hazardous materials to or from a DOE site.
(b) Individuals described in § 707.7 (b) and (c) will be subject to random drug testing; to drug testing as a result of an occurrence, as described in § 707.9; and to drug testing on the basis of reasonable suspicion, as described in § 707.10.
(c) Applicants for employment in testing designated positions will be tested in accordance with § 707.8.
§ 707.3
Policy.
It is the policy of DOE to conduct its programs so as to protect the environment, maintain public health and safety, and safeguard the national security. This policy is advanced in this rule by requiring contractors and subcontractors within its scope to adopt procedures consistent with the baseline requirements of this part, and to impose significant sanctions on individuals in testing designated positions or with unescorted access to the control areas of certain DOE reactors, who use or are involved with illegal drugs.
§ 707.4
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Collection Site Person
means a technician or other person trained and qualified to take urine samples and to secure urine samples for later laboratory analysis.
Confirmed Positive Test
means, for drugs, a finding based on a positive initial or screening test result, confirmed by another positive test on the same sample. The confirmatory test must be by the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry method.
Counseling
means assistance provided by qualified professionals to employees, especially, but not limited to those employees whose job performance is, or might be, impaired as a result of illegal drug use or a medical-behavioral problem; such assistance may include short-term counseling and assessment, crisis intervention, referral to outside treatment facilities, and follow-up services to the individual after completion of treatment and return to work.
Drug Certification
means a written assurance signed by an individual with known past illegal drug involvement, as a condition for obtaining or retaining a DOE access authorization, stating that the individual will refrain from using or being involved with illegal drugs while employed in a position requiring DOE access authorization (security clearance).
Employee Assistance
means a program of counseling, referral, and educational services concerning illegal drug use and other medical, mental, emotional, or personal problems of employees, particularly those which adversely affect behavior and job performance.
Hazardous Material
means any material subject to the placarding requirements of 49 CFR 172.504, table 1, and materials presenting a poison-inhalation hazard that must be placarded under the provisions of 49 CFR 172.505.
Head of DOE Field Element
means an individual who is the manager or head of the DOE operations office or field office.
Illegal Drug
means a controlled substance, as specified in Schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 811, 812. The term “illegal drugs” does not apply to the use of a controlled substance in accordance with terms of a valid prescription, or other uses authorized by law.
Management and Operating Contract
means an agreement for the operation, maintenance, or support, on behalf of the Government, of a Government-owned or controlled research, development, special production, or testing establishment wholly or principally devoted to one or more major programs of DOE.
Medical Review Officer
(MRO) means a licensed physician, approved by DOE to perform certain functions under this
part. The MRO is responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by an employer's drug testing program, has knowledge of illegal drug use and other substance abuse disorders, and has appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual's positive test result, together with that person's medical history and any other relevant biomedical information. For purposes of this part a physician from the site occupational medical department may be the MRO.
Occurrence
means any event or incident that is a deviation from the planned or expected behavior or course of events in connection with any Department of Energy or Department of Energy-controlled operation, if the deviation has environmental, public health and safety, or national security protection significance. Incidents having such significance include the following, or incidents of a similar nature:
(1) Injury or fatality to any person involving actions of a Department of Energy contractor employee.
(2) Involvement of nuclear explosives under Department of Energy jurisdiction which results in an explosion, fire, the spread of radioactive material, personal injury or death, or significant damage to property.
(3) Accidental release of pollutants which results or could result in a significant effect on the public or environment.
(4) Accidental release of radioactive material above regulatory limits.
Random Testing
means the unscheduled, unannounced urine drug testing of randomly selected individuals in testing designated positions, by a process designed to ensure that selections are made in a non-discriminatory manner.
Reasonable Suspicion
means a suspicion based on an articulable belief that an employee uses illegal drugs, drawn from particularized facts and reasonable inferences from those facts, as detailed further in § 707.10.
Referral
means the direction of an individual toward an employee assistance program or to an outside treatment facility by the employee assistance program professional, for assistance with prevention of illegal drug use, treatment, or rehabilitation from illegal drug use or other problems. Referrals to an employee assistance program can be made by the individual (self-referral), by contractor supervisors or managers, or by a bargaining unit representative.
Rehabilitation
means a formal treatment process aimed at the resolution of behavioral-medical problems, including illegal drug use, and resulting in such resolution.
Special Nuclear Material
has the same meaning as in section 11aa of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(aa)).
Specimen Chain of Custody Form
is a form used to document the security of the specimen from time of collection until receipt by the laboratory. This form, at a minimum, shall include specimen identifying information, date and location of collection, name and signature of collector, name of testing laboratory, and the names and signatures of all individuals who had custody of the specimen from time of collection until the specimen was prepared for shipment to the laboratory.
Testing Designated Position
names a position whose incumbents are subject to drug testing under this part.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015]

# Subpart B—Procedures
§ 707.5
Submission, approval, and implementation of a baseline workplace substance abuse program.
(a) Each contractor subject to this part shall develop a written program consistent with the requirements of this part and the guidelines of the Department of Health and Human Services and subsequent amendments to those guidelines (“Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs,” 53 FR 11970, April 11, 1988; hereinafter “HHS Mandatory Guidelines”), and applicable to appropriate DOE sites. Such a program shall be submitted to DOE for review and approval, and shall include at least the following baseline elements:
(1) Prohibition of the use; possession, sale, distribution, or manufacture of illegal drugs at sites owned or controlled by DOE;
(2) Plans for instruction of supervisors and employees concerning problems of substance abuse, including illegal drug use, and the availability of assistance through the employee assistance program and referrals to other resources, and the penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug-related violations occurring on the DOE owned or controlled site;
(3) Provision for distribution to all employees engaged in performance of the contract on the DOE owned or controlled site of a statement which sets forth the contractor's policies prohibiting the possession, sale, distribution, or manufacture of illegal drugs at the DOE owned or controlled site. The statement shall include notification to all employees that as a condition of employment under the contract, the employee will:
(i) Abide by the terms of the statement; and
(ii) Notify the employer in writing of the employee's conviction under a criminal drug statute for a violation occurring on the DOE owned or controlled site no later than 10 calendar days after such conviction;
(4) Provision for written notification to the DOE contracting officer within 10 calendar days after receiving notice under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of an employee's conviction of a drug-related offense;
(5) Provision for imposing one of the following actions, with respect to any employee who is convicted of a drug-related violation occurring in the workplace, within 30 calendar days after receiving such notice of conviction under paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(i) Taking appropriate personnel action against such employee, up to and including termination; or
(ii) Offering such employee, consistent with the contractor's policies, an opportunity to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency. If the employee does not participate in such a rehabilitation program, the contractor must take appropriate personnel action, up to and including termination, in accordance with the contractor's policies.
(6) Commitment to make a good faith effort to maintain a workplace free of substance abuse through implementation of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.
(b) In addition, the following baseline elements must be included in programs developed by contractors that have identified testing designated positions (see § 707.7(b));
(1) Notification to DOE of the positions subject to drug testing;
(2) Prohibition of individuals in testing designated positions who are not free from the use of illegal drugs from working in those positions;
(3) Sanctions for individuals in testing designated positions who violate the prohibitions of paragraphs (a)(1) or (b)(2) of this section;
(4) Provision for:
(i) Notification, at least 60 days in advance of initiating testing, to those individuals subject to drug testing, unless the contractor is currently conducting a testing program.
(ii) Urine drug analysis of applicants for testing designated positions before final selection for employment or assignment;
(iii) Random urine drug analysis for employees in testing designated positions;
(iv) Urine drug analysis for employees in testing designated positions on the basis of reasonable suspicion, as a result of an occurrence, or as a follow-up to rehabilitation; and
(v) Random urine drug analysis and urine drug analysis on the basis of reasonable suspicion or as the result of an occurrence, for any individual with unescorted access to the control areas of certain DOE reactors (see § 707.7(c)).
(vi) Written notice to the contractor by an employee in a testing designated position of a drug-related arrest or conviction, or receipt of a positive drug test result regarding that employee, as soon as possible but within 10 calendar days of such arrest, conviction, or receipt; and
(vii) Appropriate action, if any, to be taken regarding an employee who:
(A) is arrested for or convicted of a drug-related offense; or
(B) has a positive drug test result (consistent with § 707.14).
(5) Provision to employees of the opportunity for rehabilitation, consistent with the contractor's policies, under circumstances as provided in this part (see § 707.14(b));
(6) Immediate notification to DOE security officials whenever the circumstances in connection with procedures under this part raise a security concern as provided in DOE Orders, rules and regulations; such circumstances including, but are not necessarily limited to, a determination that an individual holding a DOE access authorization has used an illegal drug.
(c) Each contractor's written policy and procedures under this part shall comply with the requirements of 10 CFR part 710, “Criteria and Procedures for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Matter or Significant Quantities of Special Nuclear Material.”
(d) Contractors are required to submit all subcontracts they believe to be within the scope of this part to the Head of DOE Field Element for a determination as to whether the subcontract falls within the scope of this part. Subcontractors so determined to be within the scope of this part shall be required to agree to comply with its requirements, as a condition of eligibility for performing the subcontract work. Each subcontractor subject to this part shall submit its plan to the appropriate prime contractor for approval; the contractor shall be responsible for periodically monitoring the implementation of the subcontractor's program for effectiveness and compliance with this part.
(e) In reviewing each proposed workplace substance abuse plan, the Head of DOE Field Element shall decide whether the program meets the applicable baseline requirements established by this part. The responsible Head of DOE Field Element will reject proposed workplace substance abuse plans that are deemed not to meet the baseline requirements. The Head of DOE Field Element shall provide the contractor with a written notification regarding the decision as to the acceptability of the plan. Nothing in this rule is intended to prohibit any contractor subject to this part from implementing workplace substance abuse requirements additional to those of the baseline, including drug testing employees and applicants for employment in any position and testing for any illegal drugs. However, the contractor shall inform Head of DOE Field Element of such additional requirements at least 30 days prior to implementation.
(f) DOE shall periodically review and evaluate each contractor's program, including the contractor's oversight of the covered subcontractors, to assure effectiveness and compliance with this part.
(g) Contractors or proposers will submit their program to the appropriate Head of DOE Field Element for review within 30 days of notification by the appropriate Head of DOE Field Element that the contract or proposed contract falls within the scope of this part. Workplace substance abuse programs, as provided in this part, shall be implemented within 30 days of approval by the Head of DOE Field Element. The Head of DOE Field Element may grant an extension to the notification or implementation period, as warranted by local conditions. Implementation may require changes to collective bargaining agreements as discussed in § 707.15 of this part.
(h) To assure consistency of application, The Head of DOE Field Element shall periodically review designated contracts and testing designated positions included in the workplace substance abuse plans approved by The Head of DOE Field Element. The Head of DOE Field Element will also periodically review implementation of programs conducted by prime contractors, to assure consistency of application among prime contracts (and subcontracts where appropriate).
(i) This part preempts any State or local law, rule, regulation, order, or standard to the extent that:
(1) compliance with both the State or local requirement and any requirements in this part is not possible; or
(2) compliance with the State or local requirement is an obstacle to the
accomplishments and execution of any requirement in this part.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992,, as amended at 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015]
§ 707.6
Employee assistance, education, and training.
Contractor programs shall include the following or appropriate alternatives:
(a) Employee assistance programs emphasizing preventive services, education, short-term counseling, coordination and referral to outside agencies, and follow-up. These services shall be available to all contractor on-site employees involved in the DOE contract. The contractor has no obligation to pay the costs of any individual's counseling, treatment, or rehabilitation beyond those services provided by the contractor's employee assistance program, except as provided for in the contractor's benefits programs. DOE undertakes no obligation to pay for any individual's counseling, rehabilitation, or treatment, unless specifically provided for by contract.
(b) Education and training programs for on-site employees on a periodic basis, which will include, at a minimum, the following subjects:
(1) For all on-site employees: Health aspects of substance abuse, especially illegal drug use; safety, security, and other workplace-related problems caused by substance abuse, especially illegal drug use; the provisions of this rule; the employer's policy; and available employee assistance services.
(2) For managers and supervisors:
(i) The subjects listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Recognition of deteriorating job performance or judgment, or observation of unusual conduct which may be the result of possible illegal drug use;
(iii) Responsibility to intervene when there is deterioration in performance, or observed unusual conduct, and to offer alternative courses of action that can assist the employee in returning to satisfactory performance, judgment, or conduct, including seeking help from the employee assistance program;
(iv) Appropriate handling and referral of employees with possible substance abuse problems, especially illegal drug use; and
(v) Employer policies and practices for giving maximum consideration to the privacy interests of employees and applicants.
§ 707.7
Random drug testing requirements and identification of testing designated positions.
(a)(1) Each workplace substance abuse program will provide for random testing for evidence of the use of illegal drugs of employees in testing designated positions identified in this section.
(2) Programs developed under this part for positions identified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall provide for random tests at a rate equal to 30 percent of the total number of employees in testing designated positions for each 12-month period. Employees in the positions identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and individuals identified in paragraph (c) of this section will be subject to random testing at a rate equal to 100 percent of the total number of employees or individuals, as applicable, identified, and those identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) may be subject to additional drug tests.
(b) The testing designated positions subject to random drug testing are:
(1) Positions determined to be covered by the Human Reliability Program (HRP), codified at 10 CFR part 712. HRP employees will be subject to the drug testing standards of this part and any additional requirements of the HRP rule.
(2) Positions identified by the contractor which entail duties where failure of an employee adequately to discharge his or her position could significantly harm the environment, public health or safety, or national security, such as:
(i) Pilots;
(ii) Firefighters;
(iii) Protective force personnel, exclusive of those covered in paragraph (b)(1) and (c) of this section, in positions involving use of firearms where the duties also require potential contact with, or proximity to, the public at large;
(iv) Personnel directly engaged in construction, maintenance, or operation of nuclear reactors;
(v) Personnel directly engaged in production, use, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials sufficient to cause significant harm to the environment or public health and safety; or
(vi) All other personnel in positions that require an access authorization (security clearance), other than those identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) of this section.
(3) Other positions determined by the DOE, after consultation with the contractor, to have the potential to significantly affect the environment, public health and safety, or national security.
(c) Each contractor shall require random testing of any individual, whether or not an employee, who is allowed unescorted access to the control areas of the following DOE reactors: Advanced Test Reactor (ATR) and High Flux Isotope Reactor (HFIR). A confirmed positive test shall result in such an individual being denied unescorted access. If such an individual is not an employee of the contractor, that individual may be granted unescorted access only after the individual meets the conditions established in § 707.14(d) of this part. If, after restoration of unescorted access, such an individual is determined to have used illegal drugs for a second time, unescorted access shall be denied for a period of not less than three (3) years. Such an individual thereafter shall be granted unescorted access only upon a determination by the Head of DOE Field Element that a grant of unescorted access to the individual presents no unacceptable safety or security risk. If such an individual is an employee, that individual is subject to the other requirements of this part, including appropriate disciplinary measures.
(d) A position otherwise subject to testing under this part may be exempted from such testing if it is within the scope of another comparable Federal drug testing program, as determined by DOE, after consultation with the contractor, to avoid unnecessary multiple tests.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992, as amended at 73 FR 3863, Jan. 23, 2008; 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015; 87 FR 49978, Aug. 15, 2022]
§ 707.8
Applicant drug testing.
An applicant for a testing designated position will be tested for the use of illegal drugs before final selection for employment or assignment to such a position. Provisions of this part do not prohibit contractors from conducting drug testing on applicants for employment in any position.
§ 707.9
Drug testing as a result of an occurrence.
When there is an occurrence which is required to be reported to DOE by the contractor, under contract provisions incorporating applicable DOE Orders, rules, and regulations, it may be necessary to test individuals in testing designated positions, or individuals with unescorted access to the control areas of the DOE reactors listed in § 707.7(c), for the use of illegal drugs, if such individuals could have caused or contributed to the conditions which caused the occurrence. For an occurrence requiring immediate notification or reporting as required by applicable DOE Orders, rules, and regulations, the contractor will require testing as soon as possible after the occurrence but within 24 hours of the occurrence, unless DOE determines that it is not feasible to do so. For other occurrences requiring notifications to DOE as required by applicable DOE Orders, rules, and regulations, the contractor may require testing.
§ 707.10
Drug testing for reasonable suspicion of illegal drug use.
(a)(1) It may be necessary to test any employee in a testing designated position, or individuals with unescorted access to the control areas of the DOE reactors listed in § 707.7(c), for the use of illegal drugs, if the behavior of such an individual creates the basis for reasonable suspicion of the use of illegal drugs. Two or more supervisory or management officials, at least one of whom is in the direct chain of supervision of the employee, or is a physician from the site occupational medical department, must agree that such testing is appropriate. Reasonable suspicion must be based on an articulable belief that an employee uses illegal drugs, drawn from particularized facts
and reasonable inferences from those facts.
(2) Such a belief may be based upon, among other things:
(i) Observable phenomena, such as direct observation of:
(A) The use or possession of illegal drugs; or
(B) The physical symptoms of being under the influence of drugs;
(ii) A pattern of abnormal conduct or erratic behavior;
(iii) Arrest for a conviction of a drug related offense, or the identification of the individual as the focus of a criminal investigation into illegal drug possession use, or trafficking;
(iv) Information that is either provided by a reliable and credible source or is independently corroborated;
(v) Evidence that an employee has tampered with a drug test; or
(vi) Temperature of the urine specimen is outside the range of 32-38 degrees centigrade or 90-100 degrees Fahrenheit.
(b) The fact that an employee had a confirmed positive test for the use for the use of illegal drugs at some prior time, or has undergone a period of rehabilitation or treatment, will not, in and of itself, be grounds for testing on the basis of reasonable suspicion.
(c) The requirements of this part relating to the testing for the use of illegal drugs are not intended to prohibit the contractor from pursuing other existing disciplinary procedures or from requiring medical evaluation of any employee exhibiting aberrant or unusual behavior.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015]
§ 707.11
Drugs for which testing is performed.
Where testing is performed under this part, at a minimum, contractors will be required to test for the use of the following drugs or classes of drugs: marijuana; cocaine; opiates; phencyclidine; and amphetamines. However, when conducting reasonable suspicion or occurrence testing, the contractor may test for any drug listed in Schedules I or II of the Controlled Substances Act.
§ 707.12
Specimen collection, handling and laboratory analysis for drug testing.
(a) Procedures for providing urine specimens must allow individual privacy, unless there is reason to believe that a particular individual may alter or substitute the specimen to be provided. Contractors shall utilize a chain of custody procedure for maintaining control and accountability from point of collection to final disposition of specimens, and testing laboratories shall use appropriate cutoff levels in screening specimens to determine whether they are negative or positive for a specific drug, consistent with the HHS Mandatory Guidelines (see § 707.5(a)). The contractor shall ensure that only testing laboratories certified by the Department of Health and Human Services, are utilized.
(b)(1) If the individual refuses to cooperate with the urine collection (e.g., refusal to provide a specimen, or to complete paperwork), then the collection site person shall inform the MRO and shall document the non-cooperation on the specimen chain of custody form. The MRO shall report the failure to cooperate to the appropriate management authority, who shall report to DOE if the individual holds an access authorization. Individuals so failing to cooperate shall be treated in all respects as if they had been tested and had been determined to have used an illegal drug. The contractor may apply additional sanctions consistent with its disciplinary policy.
(2) The collection site person shall ascertain that there is a sufficient amount of urine to conduct an initial test, a confirmatory test, and a retest, in accordance with the HHS Mandatory Guidelines. If there is not a sufficient amount of urine, additional urine will be collected in a separate container. The individual may be given reasonable amounts of liquid and a reasonable amount of time in which to provide the specimen required. The individual and the collection site person must keep the specimen in view at all times. In the event that the individual fails to provide a sufficient amount of urine, the amount collected will be noted on the “Urine Sample Custody Document.” In this case, the collection site
person will telephone the individual's supervisor who will determine the next appropriate action. This may include deciding to reschedule the individual for testing, to return the individual to his or her work site and initiate disciplinary action, or both.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992, as amended at 73 FR 3863, Jan. 23, 2008; 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015]
§ 707.13
Medical review of results of tests for illegal drug use.
(a) All test results shall be submitted for medical review by the MRO. A confirmed positive test for drugs shall consist of an initial test performed by the immunoassay method, with positive results on that initial test confirmed by another test, performed by the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry method (GC/MS). This procedure is described in the HHS Mandatory Guidelines.
(b) The Medical Review Officer will consider the medical history of the employee or applicant, as well as any other relevant biomedical information. When there is a confirmed positive test result, the employee or applicant will be given an opportunity to report to the MRO the use of any prescription or over-the-counter medication. If the MRO determines that there is a legitimate medical explanation for a confirmed positive test result, consistent with legal and non-abusive drug use, the MRO will certify that the test results do not meet the conditions for a determination of use of illegal drugs. If no such certification can be made, the MRO will make a determination of use of illegal drugs. Determinations of use of illegal drugs will be made in accordance with the criteria provided in the Medical Review Officer Manual issued by the Department of Health and Human Services.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015]
§ 707.14
Action pursuant to a determination of illegal drug use.
(a) When an applicant for employment has been tested and determined to have used an illegal drug, processing for employment will be terminated and the applicant will be so notified.
(b)(1) When an employee who is in a testing designated position has been tested and determined to have used an illegal drug, the contractor shall immediately remove that employee from the testing designated position; if such employee also holds, or is an applicant for, an access authorization, then the contractor shall immediately notify DOE security officials for appropriate adjudication. If this is the first determination of use of illegal drugs by that employee (for example, the employee has not previously signed a DOE drug certification, and has not previously tested positive for use of illegal drugs), the employee may be offered a reasonable opportunity for rehabilitation, consistent with the contractor's policies. If rehabilitation is offered, the employee will be placed in a non-testing designated position, which does not require a security clearance, provided there is such an acceptable position in which the individual can be placed during rehabilitation; if there is no acceptable non-testing designated position, the employee will be placed on sick, annual, or other leave status, for a reasonable period sufficient to permit rehabilitation. However, the employee will not be protected from disciplinary action which may result from violations of work rules other than a positive test result for illegal drugs.
(2) Following a determination by the site occupational medical department, after counseling or rehabilitation, that the employee can safely return to duty, the contractor may offer the employee reinstatement, in the same or a comparable position to the one held prior to the removal, consistent with the contractor's policies and the requirements of 10 CFR part 710. Failure to take the opportunity for rehabilitation, if it has been made available, for the use of illegal drugs, will require significant disciplinary action up to and including removal from employment under the DOE contract, in accordance with the contractor's policies. Any employee who is twice determined to have used illegal drugs shall in all cases be removed from employment under the DOE contract. Also, if an employee who has signed a DOE drug certification violates the terms of the certification, DOE shall conduct a
timely review of the circumstances of such violation, and the individual's continued eligibility for a DOE access authorization shall be determined under the provisions of 10 CFR part 710, “Criteria and Procedures for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Matter or Significant Quantities of Special Nuclear Material.”
(c) An employee who has been removed from a testing designated position because of the use of illegal drugs may not be returned to such position until that employee has:
(1) Successfully completed counseling or a program of rehabilitation;
(2) Undergone a urine drug test with a negative result; and
(3) Been evaluated by the site occupational medical department, which has determined that the individual is capable of safely returning to duty.
(d) An individual who is not an employee of a contractor who has been denied unescorted access because of the use of illegal drugs may not have the unescorted access reinstated until that individual has:
(1) Provided evidence of successful completion of counseling or a program of rehabilitation;
(2) Undergone a urine drug test with a negative result; and
(3) Been evaluated by the site occupational medical department, which has determined that the individual is capable of being permitted unescorted access to a reactor control area.
(e) If a DOE access authorization is involved, DOE must be notified of a contractor's intent to return to a testing designated position an employee removed from such duty for use of illegal drugs. Positions identified in § 707.7(b)(1) of this part will require DOE approval prior to return to a testing designated position.
(f) An individual who has been notified of a positive test result may request a retest of the same sample at the same or another certified laboratory. The individual shall bear the costs of transportation and/or testing of the specimen. The contractor will inform employees of their right to request a retest under the provisions of this paragraph.
(g) After an employee determined to have used illegal drugs has been returned to duty, the employee shall be subject to unannounced drug testing, at intervals, for a period of 12 months.
[57 FR 32656, July 22, 1992,, as amended at 80 FR 5008, Jan. 30, 2015; 87 FR 49979, Aug. 15, 2022]
§ 707.15
Collective bargaining.
When establishing drug testing programs, contractors who are parties to collective bargaining agreements will negotiate with employee representatives, as appropriate, under labor relations laws or negotiated agreements. Such negotiation, however, cannot change or alter the requirements of this rule because DOE security requirements themselves are non-negotiable under the security provisions of DOE contracts. Employees covered under collective bargaining agreements will not be subject to the provisions of this rule until those agreements have been modified, as necessary; provided, however, that if one year after commencement of negotiation the parties have failed to reach agreement, an impasse will be determined to have been reached and the contractor will unilaterally implement the requirements of this rule.
§ 707.16
Records.
(a) Confirmed positive test results shall be provided to the Medical Review Officer and other contractor and DOE officials with a need to know. Any other disclosure may be made only with the written consent of the individual.
(b) Contractors shall maintain maximum confidentiality of records related to illegal drug use, to the extent required by applicable statutes and regulations (including, but not limited to, 42 U.S.C. 290dd-3, 42 U.S.C. 290ee-3, and 42 CFR part 2). If such records are sought from the contractor for criminal investigations, or to resolve a question or concern relating to the Personnel Assurance Program certification or access authorization under 10 CFR part 710, any applicable procedures in statute or regulation for disclosure of such information shall be followed. Moreover, owing to DOE's express environmental, public health and safety, and national security interests,
and the need to exercise proper contractor oversight, DOE must be kept fully apprised of all aspects of the contractor's program, including such information as incidents involving reasonable suspicion, occurrences, and confirmed test results, as well as information concerning test results in the aggregate.
(c) Unless otherwise approved by DOE, the contractors shall ensure that all laboratory records relating to positive drug test results, including initial test records and chromatographic tracings, shall be retained by the laboratory in such a manner as to allow retrieval of all information pertaining to the individual urine specimens for a minimum period of five years after completion of testing of any given specimen, or longer if so instructed by DOE or by the contractor. In addition, a frozen sample of all positive urine specimens shall be retained by the laboratory for at least six months, or longer if so instructed by DOE.
(d) The contractor shall maintain as part of its medical records copies of specimen chain of custody forms.
(e) The specimen chain of custody form will contain the following information:
(1) Date of collection;
(2) Tested person's name;
(3) Tested employee/applicant's social security number or other identification number unique to the individual;
(4) Specimen number;
(5) Type of test (random, applicant, occurrence, reasonable suspicion, follow-up, or other);
(6) Temperature range of specimen;
(7) Remarks regarding unusual behavior or conditions;
(8) Collector's signature; and
(9) Certification signature of specimen provider certifying that specimen identified is in fact the specimen the individual provided.
§ 707.17
Permissible actions in the event of contractor noncompliance.
Actions available to DOE in the event of contractor noncompliance with the provisions of this part or otherwise performing in a manner inconsistent with its approved program include, but are not limited to, suspension or debarment, contract termination, or reduction in fee in accordance with the contract terms.
Pt. 708

# PART 708—DOE CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE PROTECTION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
708.1
Scope and purpose.
708.2
Definitions.
708.3
Complaints covered.
708.4
Complaints not covered.
708.5
Protected conduct.
708.6
Reasonable fear of serious injury.
708.7
Filing a complaint based on retaliation for refusal to participate.
708.8
Application to pending cases.
708.9
How to file complaints or other documents.
708.10
Informal resolution of complaints.

# Subpart B—Employee Complaint Resolution Process
708.11
Filing a complaint.
708.12
No expectation of confidentiality.
708.13
Requirements for the form and content of a complaint.
708.14
Exhaustion of grievance-arbitration procedures.
708.15
Time to file a complaint.
708.16
Duplicative actions under State or other law.
708.17
Notification of complaints and opportunities to respond.
708.18
Dismissal for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause.
708.19
Appealing the dismissal of a complaint by the Head of Field Element or EC Director for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause.
708.20
Review by the Secretary of Energy of a decision on appeal of a dismissal.

# Subpart C—Investigation, Hearing, and Decision Process
708.21
Referral to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
708.22
Investigation of complaints.
708.23
Time to issue a report of investigation.
708.24
Hearings not required.
708.25
Appointment of Administrative Judge.
708.26
Time and location of hearings.
708.27
The Administrative Judge may not require that the parties participate in alternative dispute resolution.
708.28
Hearing procedures.
708.29
Burdens of proof.
708.30
Timing for issuing an initial agency decision.
708.31
Procedure for issuing an initial agency decision.
708.32
Appealing an initial agency decision.
708.33
Procedure for appeals.
708.34
Procedure for issuing an appeal decision.
708.35
Review by the Secretary of Energy of an appeal decision.
708.36
Remedies.
708.37
Reimbursement of costs and expenses.
708.38
Implementation of final agency decision.
708.39
The Contract Disputes Act.
708.40
Notice of program requirements.
708.41
Referral to another agency.
708.42
Extension of deadlines.
708.43
Affirmative duty not to retaliate.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201(b), 2201(c), 2201(i), and 2201(p); 42 U.S.C. 5814 and 5815; 42 U.S.C. 7251, 7254, 7255, and 7256; and 5 U.S.C. Appendix 3.

# Source:
84 FR 37757, Aug. 2, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 708.1
Scope and purpose.
This part provides procedures for processing complaints by employees of DOE contractors alleging retaliation by their employers for disclosure of information concerning danger to public or worker health or safety, substantial violations of law, or gross mismanagement; for participation in Congressional proceedings; or for refusal to participate in dangerous activities.
§ 708.2
Definitions.
(a) For purposes of this part:
Administrative Judge
means an attorney appointed by the OHA Director to preside over the disposition of a complaint.
Alternative Dispute Resolution
means any technique for resolving disputes and managing conflict without resorting to litigation in either an administrative or judicial forum. Alternative Dispute Resolution techniques include, but are not limited to, mediation, facilitation, shuttle diplomacy, partnering, and dispute systems design.
Complainant
means an employee who has filed a complaint under 10 CFR part 708.
Contractor
means a seller of goods or services who is a party to a management and operating contract or other type of contract with DOE, or subcontract to such a contract, to perform work directly related to activities at DOE-owned or -leased facilities.
Day
means a calendar day.
Discovery
means a process used to enable the parties to learn about each other's evidence before a hearing takes place, including oral depositions, written interrogatories, requests for admissions, inspection of property, and requests for production of documents.
DOE Official
means any officer or employee of DOE whose duties include program management or the investigation or enforcement of any law, rule, or regulation relating to Government contractors or the subject matter of a contract.
EC Director
means the Director of the Office of Employee Concerns at DOE Headquarters, or any official to whom the Director delegates his functions under this part.
Employee
means a person employed by a contractor, and any person previously employed by a contractor if that person's complaint alleges that employment was terminated for conduct described in § 708.5 of this subpart.
Field element
means a DOE operations office or field office that is responsible for the management, coordination, and administration of operations at a DOE facility.
Head of Field Element
means the manager or head of a DOE operations office or field office, or any official to whom those individuals delegate their functions under this part.
Management and operating contract
means an agreement under which DOE contracts for the operation, maintenance, or support of a Government-owned or -leased research, development, special production, or testing establishment that is wholly or principally devoted to one or more of the programs of DOE.
OHA Director
means the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, or any official to whom the Director delegates his functions under this part.
Party
means an employee, contractor, or other party named in a proceeding under this part.
Retaliation
means an action (including intimidation, threats, restraint, coercion, or similar action) taken by a contractor against an employee with respect to employment (
e.g.,
discharge,
demotion, or other negative action with respect to the employee's compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment) that would not have been taken but for the employee's disclosure of information, participation in proceedings, or refusal to participate in activities described in § 708.5 of this subpart.
(b) Throughout this part, the use of a word or term in the singular includes the plural, and the use of the male gender is gender neutral.
§ 708.3
Complaints covered.
This part applies to a complaint of retaliation filed by an employee of a contractor that performs work on behalf of DOE, directly related to activities at a DOE-owned or -leased site, if the complaint stems from a disclosure, participation, or refusal described in § 708.5 of this subpart.
§ 708.4
Complaints not covered.
An employee of a contractor may not file a complaint against his employer under this part if:
(a) The complaint is based on race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, or other similar basis; or
(b) The complaint involves misconduct that the employee, acting without direction from the employer, deliberately caused, or in which the employee knowingly participated; or
(c) Except as provided in § 708.15(a), the complaint is based on the same facts for which the employee has chosen to pursue a remedy available under:
(1) Department of Labor regulations at 29 CFR part 24, “Procedures for the Handling of Discrimination Complaints under Federal Employee Protection Statutes;”
(2) Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 3, “Federal Acquisition Regulation; Whistleblower Protection for Contractor Employees (Ethics);” or
(3) State or other applicable law, including final and binding grievance-arbitration, as described in § 708.16 of subpart B; or
(d) The complaint is based on the same facts in which the employee, in the course of a covered disclosure or participation, improperly disclosed Restricted Data, national security information, or any other classified or sensitive information in violation of any Executive Order, statute, or regulation. This part does not override any provision or requirement of any regulation pertaining to Restricted Data, national security information, or any other classified or sensitive information; or
(e) The complaint deals with “terms and conditions of employment” within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act, except as provided in § 708.5.
§ 708.5
Protected conduct.
An employee of a contractor may file a complaint against his employer alleging that he has been subject to retaliation for:
(a) Disclosing to a DOE official, a member of Congress, any other government official who has responsibility for the oversight of the conduct of operations at a DOE site, the employer, or any higher tier contractor, information that he reasonably believes reveals—
(1) A substantial violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
(2) A substantial and specific danger to employees or to public health or safety; or
(3) Fraud, gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds, or abuse of authority; or
(b) Participating in a Congressional proceeding or an administrative proceeding conducted under this part; or
(c) Subject to § 708.7 of this subpart, refusing to participate in an activity, policy, or practice if the employee believed participation would—
(1) Constitute a violation of a Federal health or safety law; or
(2) Cause the employee to have a reasonable fear of serious injury to himself, other employees, or members of the public.
§ 708.6
Reasonable fear of serious injury.
Participation in an activity, policy, or practice may cause an employee to have a reasonable fear of serious injury that justifies a refusal to participate if:
(a) A reasonable person, under the circumstances that confronted the employee, would conclude there is a substantial risk of a serious accident, injury, or impairment of health or safety resulting from participation in the activity, policy, or practice; or
(b) An employee, because of the nature of his employment responsibilities, does not have the training or skills needed to participate safely in the activity or practice.
§ 708.7
Filing a complaint based on retaliation for refusal to participate.
An employee may file a complaint for retaliation for refusing to participate in an activity, policy, or practice only if:
(a) Before refusing to participate in the activity, policy, or practice, the employee asked the employer to correct the violation or remove the danger, and the employer refused to take such action; and
(b) By the 30th day after the refusal to participate, the employee reported the violation or dangerous activity, policy, or practice to a DOE official, a member of Congress, another government official with responsibility for the oversight of the conduct of operations at the DOE site, his employer, or any higher tier contractor, and stated his reasons for refusing to participate.
§ 708.8
Application to pending cases.
The procedures in this part apply in any complaint proceeding filed with the Head of Field Element or EC Director, as appropriate, on or after the effective date of this part.
§ 708.9
How to file complaints or other documents.
(a) Under this part, a complaint or other document is considered filed on the date it is mailed, electronically submitted, or personally delivered to the specified official or office.
(b) A complaint may be withdrawn at any time at the request of the complainant.
(c) Absent exceptional circumstances, all submissions to the Office of Hearings and Appeals must be filed electronically in accordance with the instructions set forth on the Office of Hearings and Appeals website, found at
https://www.energy.gov/oha/filing-information.
The Office of Hearings and Appeals may grant permission to file via mail or facsimile.
§ 708.10
Informal resolution of complaints.
(a) DOE encourages the use of alternative dispute resolution. If the parties are willing, they can seek to utilize alternative dispute resolution techniques, such as settlement discussions or mediation, in an attempt to resolve the complaint.
(b) The parties may engage in alternative dispute resolution at any time prior to the issuance of an initial agency decision.
(c) If the parties resolve the complaint informally, the Head of Field Element, EC Director, and the Office of Hearings and Appeals must be given a copy of the settlement agreement or a written statement from the employee that withdraws the complaint.

# Subpart B—Employee Complaint Resolution Process
§ 708.11
Filing a complaint.
(a) If an employee was employed by a contractor whose contract is overseen by a contracting officer located in DOE Headquarters when the alleged retaliation occurred, the employee must file the written complaint with the EC Director.
(b) If an employee was employed by a contractor at a DOE field facility or site when the alleged retaliation occurred, the employee must file the written complaint with the Head of Field Element at the DOE field element with jurisdiction over the contract.
§ 708.12
No expectation of confidentiality.
The identity of an employee who files a complaint under this part appears on the complaint. A copy of the complaint is provided to the employer and the complainant's identity cannot be maintained as confidential.
§ 708.13
Requirements for the form and content of a complaint.
A complaint does not need to be in any specific form but must be signed by the employee and contain the following:
(a) A statement specifically describing
(1) The alleged retaliation taken against the employee and
(2) The disclosure, participation, or refusal covered under § 708.5 that the employee believes gave rise to the retaliation;
(b) A statement that the complainant is not currently pursuing a remedy under State or other applicable law, as described in § 708.16 of this subpart;
(c) A statement that all of the facts that the complainant has included in his complaint are true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief; and
(d) An affirmation, as described in § 708.14 of this subpart, that the complainant has exhausted all applicable grievance or arbitration procedures.
§ 708.14
Exhaustion of grievance-arbitration procedures.
(a) To show that all applicable grievance-arbitration procedures have been exhausted, the complainant must:
(1) State that all available opportunities for resolution through an applicable grievance-arbitration procedure have been exhausted, and provide the date on which the grievance-arbitration procedure was terminated and the reasons for termination; or
(2) State that the complainant filed a grievance under applicable grievance-arbitration procedures, but more than 150 days have passed and a final decision on it has not been issued, and provide the date that the grievance was filed; or
(3) State that the employer has established no grievance-arbitration procedures.
(b) If the complainant does not provide the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the complaint may be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction as provided in § 708.18 of this subpart.
§ 708.15
Time to file a complaint.
(a) A complaint must be filed by the 90th day after the date the employee knew, or reasonably should have known, of the alleged retaliation.
(b) The period for filing a complaint does not include time spent attempting to resolve the dispute through an internal company grievance-arbitration procedure. The time period for filing stops running on the day the internal grievance is filed and begins to run again on the earlier of:
(1) The day after such dispute resolution efforts end; or
(2) 150 days after the internal grievance was filed if a final decision on the grievance has not been issued.
(c) The period for filing a complaint does not include time spent resolving jurisdictional issues related to a complaint the employee files under State or other applicable law. The time period for filing stops running on the date the complaint under State or other applicable law is filed and begins to run again the day after a final decision on the jurisdictional issues is issued.
(d) If the complaint is not filed during the 90-day period, the Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will give the complainant an opportunity to show any good reason he may have for not filing within that period, and that official may, in his discretion, accept the complaint for processing.
§ 708.16
Duplicative actions under State or other law.
(a) An employee may not file a complaint under this part if, with respect to the same facts, he chooses to pursue a remedy under State or other applicable law, including final and binding grievance-arbitration procedures, unless:
(1) The complaint under State or other applicable law is dismissed for lack of jurisdiction;
(2) The complaint was filed under 48 CFR part 3, subpart 3.9 and the Inspector General, after conducting an initial inquiry, determines not to pursue it; or
(3) The employee has exhausted grievance-arbitration procedures pursuant to § 708.14, and issues related to alleged retaliation for conduct protected under § 708.5 remain.
(b) Pursuing a remedy other than final and binding grievance-arbitration procedures does not prevent an employee from filing a complaint under this part.
(c) An employee is considered to have filed a complaint under State or other applicable law if he files a complaint, or other pleading, with respect to the same facts in a proceeding established or mandated by State or other applicable law, whether such a complaint is filed before, concurrently with, or after a complaint is filed under this part.
(d) If an employee files a complaint under State or other applicable law after filing a complaint under this part, the complaint under this regulation will be dismissed under § 708.18(c)(3).
§ 708.17
Notification of complaints and opportunities to respond.
(a) By the 15th day after receiving a complaint, the Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will provide the employer a copy of the complaint. The employer has 15 days from receipt of the complaint to submit any response it wishes to make regarding the allegations in the complaint. The Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will provide the complainant with a copy of the employer's response. The complainant has 10 days from receipt of the response to submit any additional comments regarding the complaint or the response. The Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will provide the employer with a copy of those additional comments.
(b) If the complainant is part of a bargaining unit represented for purposes of collective bargaining by a labor organization, the Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will provide the representative a copy of the complaint by the 15th day after receiving it. The labor organization will be advised that it has 10 days from the receipt of the complaint to submit any comments it wishes to make regarding the allegations in the complaint.
§ 708.18
Dismissal for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause.
(a) The Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) may dismiss a complaint for lack of jurisdiction or for other good cause after receiving the complaint, either on his own initiative or at the request of a party named in the complaint. Such decisions are generally issued by the 20th day after the receipt of the employer's response, but not before the complainant has submitted comments on the response or his time to do so has elapsed, whichever is soonest.
(b) The Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will notify the complainant by certified mail, return receipt requested, if the complaint is dismissed for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause, will give specific reasons for the dismissal and the contact information for the DOE's Alternative Dispute Resolution Office, and will notify other parties of the dismissal.
(c) Dismissal for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause is appropriate if:
(1) The complaint is untimely; or
(2) The facts, as alleged in the complaint, do not present issues for which relief can be granted under this part; or
(3) The complainant filed a complaint under State or other applicable law with respect to the same facts as alleged in a complaint under this part; or
(4) The complaint is frivolous or without merit on its face; or
(5) The issues presented in the complaint have been rendered moot by subsequent events or substantially resolved; or
(6) The employer has made a formal offer to provide the remedy requested in the complaint or a remedy that DOE considers to be equivalent to what could be provided as a remedy under this part.
§ 708.19
Appealing the dismissal of a complaint by the Head of Field Element or EC Director for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause.
(a) If a complaint is dismissed by the Head of Field Element or EC Director, the administrative process is terminated unless the complainant appeals the dismissal to the OHA Director by the 10th day after receipt of the notice of dismissal as evidenced by a receipt for delivery of certified mail. Decisions not to dismiss may not be appealed.
(b) If the complainant appeals a dismissal to the OHA Director, he must
send copies of his appeal to the Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) and all parties. The appeal must include a copy of the notice of dismissal, and state the reasons the dismissal was erroneous.
(c) The OHA Director has all powers necessary to adjudicate the appeal. The OHA Director will issue a decision on the appeal and notify the parties of the decision by the 30th day after it is received. The OHA Director will review findings of fact for clear error and conclusions of law
de novo.
(d) The OHA Director's decision, either upholding the dismissal by the Head of Field Element or EC Director or ordering further processing of the complaint, is the final decision on the appeal, unless a party files a petition for Secretarial review by the 30th day after receiving the appeal decision.
§ 708.20
Review by the Secretary of Energy of a decision on appeal of a dismissal.
(a) By the 30th day after receiving a decision on an appeal under § 708.19 from the OHA Director, any party may file a petition for Secretarial review of a dismissal with the Office of Hearings and Appeals. A decision by the OHA Director to reverse a dismissal may not be the subject of a petition for Secretarial review.
(b) By the 15th day after filing the petition for Secretarial review, the petitioning party must file a statement setting forth the arguments in support of its position. A copy of the statement must be served on the other parties, who may file a response by the 20th day after receipt of the statement. Any response must also be served on the other parties.
(c) All submissions permitted under this section must be filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(d) The Secretary (or his designee) will reverse or revise an appeal decision by the OHA Director only under extraordinary circumstances. Upon consideration of the petition for Secretarial review, the Secretary will direct the OHA Director to issue an order either upholding the dismissal by the Head of Field Element or EC Director or ordering further processing of the complaint. If the dismissal is upheld, this is a final agency action.

# Subpart C—Investigation, Hearing, and Decision Process
§ 708.21
Referral to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(a) If a complaint is not dismissed for lack of jurisdiction or other good cause, the Head of Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will forward the complaint to the OHA Director by the later of:
(1) The 25th day after receipt of the employer's response, or
(2) The 5th day after receipt of an order to continue processing the complaint following an appeal of dismissal.
(b) The Head of the Field Element or EC Director (as applicable) will notify all parties that the complaint has been referred to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(c) The OHA Director and an Administrative Judge appointed to preside over any aspect of a part 708 proceeding are prohibited, beginning with the complaint's referral to the OHA and until a final agency decision is issued, from initiating or otherwise engaging in
ex parte
discussions with any party on the merits of the complaint.
(d) In all proceedings under this subpart:
(1) The parties have the right to be represented by a person of their choosing or to proceed without representation. The parties are responsible for producing witnesses on their behalf, including requesting the issuance of subpoenas, if necessary;
(2) Formal rules of evidence do not apply, but the OHA may use the Federal Rules of Evidence as a guide.
§ 708.22
Investigation of complaints.
(a) The OHA Director will appoint a person to conduct an investigation. The investigator may not participate or advise in any proceedings in the case subsequent to the investigation's completion.
(b) The investigator will determine the appropriate scope of investigation based on the circumstances of the complaint. The investigator may enter and inspect places and records; make copies of records; interview persons alleged to
have been involved in retaliation and other individuals who may have relevant information; take sworn statements; and require the production of any documents or other evidence.
(c) All parties must cooperate fully with the investigator by making all pertinent evidence available. The contractor must make employees available upon request.
(d) A person being interviewed in an investigation has the right to be represented by a person of his choosing.
(e) Parties to the complaint are not entitled to be present at interviews conducted by an investigator.
(f) If a person other than the complainant requests that his identity be kept confidential, the investigator may grant confidentiality, but must advise such person that confidentiality means that the Office of Hearings and Appeals will not identify the person as a source of information to anyone outside the Office of Hearings and Appeals, except as required by statute or other law, or as determined by the OHA Director to be unavoidable.
(g) At any point during the investigation, the investigator may request that the OHA Director appoint an Administrative Judge to whom the complaint will be referred for a decision on whether dismissal is appropriate. The investigator will serve the parties with notice of the referral. The investigator will submit a written statement to the Administrative Judge outlining the reasons he believes dismissal may be appropriate and any facts supporting that belief. The Administrative Judge will then decide whether to dismiss the complaint. In making such decision, the Administrative Judge will have access to the entire investigative file. The Administrative Judge's decision, regardless of outcome, will be served on all the parties. A complaint may be dismissed prior to the completion of the investigation for:
(1) Any reason listed in § 708.18(c), or
(2) Lack of merit, provided the facts obtained by the investigator indicate there is no genuine dispute of material fact.
(h) If the Administrative Judge decides to dismiss the complaint, he will issue an initial agency decision that includes the factual and legal bases for the dismissal. The investigator's written statement will be attached to the Administrative Judge's initial agency decision and served on all the parties. No report of investigation will issue for a complaint dismissed by the Administrative Judge following a referral for dismissal by the investigator.
(i) If the Administrative Judge decides not to dismiss the complaint, he will issue a written statement to that effect which will include the factual and legal basis for his decision. The investigation will then continue. The OHA Director may, at his discretion, appoint a new investigator.
(j) Dismissals under paragraph (h) of this section may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 708.32, 708.33, 708.34, and 708.35. Decisions not to dismiss under paragraph (i) of this section may not be appealed.
§ 708.23
Time to issue a report of investigation.
(a) If the complaint is not dismissed prior to the completion of the investigation, the investigator will complete the investigation and issue a report of investigation by the 60th day after the complaint is received by the Office of Hearings and Appeals, unless the OHA Director, for good cause, extends the investigation for no more than 30 days. If a case is referred for dismissal by an investigator, the time to issue the report of investigation stops running on the day of referral and, if the Administrative Judge decides against dismissal, begins to run again on the day after the Administrative Judge's decision issues.
(b) The investigator will provide copies of the report of investigation to the parties. The investigation will not be reopened after the report of investigation is issued.
§ 708.24
Hearings not required.
(a) A complainant may withdraw a hearing request after the report of investigation is issued. However, the hearing may be canceled only if all parties agree that they do not want a hearing.
(b) If the hearing is canceled, the Administrative Judge will issue an initial agency decision pursuant to § 708.31 of this subpart.
§ 708.25
Appointment of Administrative Judge.
The OHA Director will appoint an Administrative Judge from the Office of Hearings and Appeals to conduct a hearing.
§ 708.26
Time and location of hearings.
(a) The Administrative Judge will schedule a hearing to be held by the 90th day after issuance of the report of investigation. Any extension of the hearing date must be approved by the OHA Director.
(b) The Administrative Judge will schedule the hearing for a location near the site where the alleged retaliation occurred or the complainant's place of employment, or at another location that is appropriate considering the circumstances of a particular case. Hearings may be conducted by video teleconference or other remote means, at the Administrative Judge's discretion.
§ 708.27
The Administrative Judge may not require that the parties participate in alternative dispute resolution.
The Administrative Judge may recommend, but may not require, that the parties attempt to resolve the complaint through alternative dispute resolution. Within 5 days of appointment, the Administrative Judge will make the contact information for the DOE's Alternative Dispute Resolution Office available to the parties.
§ 708.28
Hearing procedures.
(a) In all hearings under this part:
(1) Testimony of witnesses is given under oath or affirmation, and witnesses must be advised of the applicability of 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 18 U.S.C. 1621, dealing with the criminal penalties associated with false statements and perjury;
(2) Witnesses are subject to cross-examination; and
(3) A court reporter will make a transcript of the hearing.
(b) The Administrative Judge has all powers necessary to regulate the conduct of proceedings, including the following.
(1) The Administrative Judge may order discovery at the request of a party, based on a showing that the requested discovery is designed to produce evidence regarding a matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter of the complaint.
(2) The Administrative Judge may permit parties to obtain discovery by any appropriate method, including deposition upon oral examination or written questions; written interrogatories; production of documents or things; permission to enter upon land or other property for inspection and other purposes; and requests for admission.
(3) The Administrative Judge may issue subpoenas for the appearance of witnesses on behalf of either party, or for the production of specific documents or other physical evidence.
(4) The Administrative Judge may rule on objections to the presentation of evidence; exclude evidence that is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious; require the advance submission of documents offered as evidence; dispose of procedural requests; grant extensions of time; determine the format of the hearing; direct that written motions, documents, or briefs be filed with respect to issues raised during the course of the hearing; ask questions of witnesses; direct that documentary evidence be served upon other parties (under protective order if such evidence is deemed confidential); and otherwise regulate the conduct of the hearing.
(5) The Administrative Judge may, at the request of a party or on his own initiative, dismiss a claim, defense, or party. He may also make adverse findings upon the failure of a party or the party's representative to comply with a lawful order of the Administrative Judge, or, without good cause, to attend a hearing. If the Administrative Judge's rulings result in termination of the proceeding prior to the completion of the hearing, the Administrative Judge will issue an initial agency decision pursuant to § 708.31 of this subpart.
(6) The Administrative Judge, upon request of a party, may allow the parties a reasonable time to file pre-hearing briefs or written statements with respect to material issues of fact or law. Any pre-hearing submission must be limited to the issues specified and
filed within the time prescribed by the Administrative Judge.
(7) The parties are entitled to make closing arguments, but post-hearing submissions are only permitted by direction of the Administrative Judge.
(8) Parties allowed to file written submissions must serve copies upon the other parties within the time prescribed by the Administrative Judge.
§ 708.29
Burdens of proof.
The complainant has the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that he made a disclosure, participated in a proceeding, or refused to participate, as described under § 708.5, and that such act was a contributing factor in one or more alleged acts of retaliation against the complainant by the contractor. Once the complainant has met this burden, the burden shifts to the contractor to prove by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same action without the complainant's disclosure, participation, or refusal.
§ 708.30
Timing for issuing an initial agency decision.
The Administrative Judge will issue an initial agency decision on the complaint by the 60th day after the later of:
(a) The date the Administrative Judge approves the parties' agreement not to hold a hearing;
(b) The date the Administrative Judge receives the transcript of the hearing; or
(c) The date the Administrative Judge receives post-hearing submissions permitted under § 708.28(b)(7) of this subpart.
§ 708.31
Procedure for issuing an initial agency decision.
(a) The Administrative Judge will serve the initial agency decision on all parties.
(b) An initial agency decision issued by the Administrative Judge will contain appropriate findings, conclusions, an order, and the factual basis for each finding, whether or not a hearing has been held on the complaint. In making such findings, the Administrative Judge may rely upon, but is not bound by, the report of investigation.
(c) If the Administrative Judge determines that an act of retaliation has occurred, the initial agency decision will include an order for any form of relief permitted under § 708.36. If the Administrative Judge does not determine that an act of retaliation has occurred, the initial agency decision will state that the complaint is denied.
§ 708.32
Appealing an initial agency decision.
(a) By the 15th day after receiving an initial agency decision from the Administrative Judge, any party may file a notice of appeal with the OHA Director requesting review of the initial agency decision.
(b) A party who appeals an initial agency decision (the appellant) must serve a copy of the notice of appeal on all other parties.
(c) A party who receives an initial agency decision has not exhausted its administrative remedies until an appeal has been filed with the OHA Director and a decision granting or denying the appeal has been issued.
§ 708.33
Procedure for appeals.
(a) By the 15th day after filing a notice of appeal under § 708.32, the appellant must file a statement identifying the issues that it wishes the OHA Director to review. A copy of the statement must be served on the other parties, who may file a response by the 20th day after receipt of the statement. Any response must also be served on the other parties.
(b) In considering the appeal, the OHA Director:
(1) Will possess all powers necessary to adjudicate the appeal.
(2) Will review findings of fact for clear error and conclusions of law
de novo;
and
(3) Will close the record on appeal after receiving the last submission permitted under this section.
§ 708.34
Procedure for issuing an appeal decision.
(a) If there is no appeal of an initial agency decision, and the time for filing an appeal has passed, the initial agency decision becomes the final agency decision.
(b) If there is an appeal of an initial agency decision, the OHA Director will issue an appeal decision based on the record of proceedings by the 60th day after the record is closed.
(1) An appeal decision issued by the OHA Director will contain appropriate findings, conclusions, an order, and the factual basis for each finding, whether or not a hearing has been held on the complaint. In making such findings, the OHA Director may rely upon, but is not bound by, the report of investigation and/or the initial agency decision.
(2) If the OHA Director determines that an act of retaliation has occurred, the appeal decision will include an order for any form of relief permitted under § 708.36.
(3) If the OHA Director does not determine that the employer has committed an act of retaliation, the appeal decision will deny the complaint.
(4) If the OHA Director determines that the complaint was properly dismissed, the appeal decision will deny the appeal.
(5) If the OHA Director determines that a complaint should not have been dismissed, the appeal decision will vacate the initial agency decision and order further processing of the complaint.
(c) The OHA Director will send an appeal decision to all parties and to the Head of Field Element or EC Director having jurisdiction over the contract under which the complainant was employed when the alleged retaliation occurred.
(d) The appeal decision issued by the OHA Director—other than an appeal decision ordering further processing of a complaint—is the final agency decision unless a party files a petition for Secretarial review by the 30th day after receiving the appeal decision. A decision by the OHA Director to reverse a dismissal may not be the subject of a petition for Secretarial review.
§ 708.35
Review by the Secretary of Energy of an appeal decision.
(a) By the 30th day after receiving an appeal decision from the OHA Director, any party may file a petition for Secretarial review with the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(b) By the 15th day after filing a petition for Secretarial review, the petitioner must file a statement identifying the issues that it wishes the Secretary to consider. A copy of the statement must be served on the other parties, who may file a response by the 20th day after receipt of the statement. Any response must also be served on the other parties.
(c) All submissions permitted under this section must be filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(d) The Secretary (or his designee) will reverse or revise an appeal decision by the OHA Director only under extraordinary circumstances. In the event the Secretary determines that a revision in the appeal decision is appropriate, the Secretary will direct the OHA Director to issue a revised decision which is the final agency action on the complaint. In the event the Secretary determines to reverse an appeal decision dismissing the complaint, the Secretary may, as appropriate, direct the OHA Director to issue a revised decision ordering further processing of the complaint. If no further processing is ordered, the Secretary's decision is the final agency action on the complaint.
§ 708.36
Remedies.
(a)
General remedies.
If the initial or final agency decision determines that an act of retaliation has occurred, it may order:
(1) Reinstatement;
(2) Transfer preference;
(3) Back pay;
(4) Reimbursement of the complainant's reasonable costs and expenses, including attorney and expert-witness fees reasonably incurred to prepare for and participate in proceedings leading to the initial or final agency decision; or
(5) Such other remedies as are deemed necessary to abate the violation and provide the complainant with relief.
(b)
Interim relief.
If an initial agency decision contains a determination that an act of retaliation occurred, the decision may order the employer to provide the complainant with appropriate interim relief (including reinstatement) pending the outcome of any request for
review of the decision by the OHA Director. Such interim relief will not include payment of any money.
§ 708.37
Reimbursement of costs and expenses.
If a complaint is denied by a final agency decision, the complainant will not be reimbursed for the costs and expenses incurred in pursuing the complaint.
§ 708.38
Implementation of final agency decision.
(a) The Head of Field Element having jurisdiction over the contract under which the complainant was employed when the alleged retaliation occurred, or EC Director, will implement a final agency decision by forwarding the decision and order to the contractor, or subcontractor, involved.
(b) An employer's failure or refusal to comply with a final agency decision and order under this regulation may result in a contracting officer's decision to disallow certain costs or terminate the contract for default. In the event of a contracting officer's decision to disallow costs or terminate a contract for default, the contractor may file a claim under the disputes procedures of the contract.
§ 708.39
The Contract Disputes Act.
A final agency decision and order issued pursuant to this regulation is not considered a claim by the government against a contractor or “a decision by the contracting officer” under sections 6 and 7 of the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. 605 and 41 U.S.C. 606).
§ 708.40
Notice of program requirements.
Employers who are covered by this part must inform their employees about these regulations by posting notices in conspicuous places at the work site. These notices must include the name, address, telephone number, and website or email address of the DOE office where employees can file complaints under this part.
§ 708.41
Referral to another agency.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this part, the Secretary of Energy retains the right to request that a complaint filed under this part be accepted by another Federal agency for investigation and factual determinations.
§ 708.42
Extension of deadlines.
The Secretary of Energy (or the Secretary's designee) may approve the extension of any deadline established by this part, and the OHA Director may approve the extension of any deadline under §§ 708.22 through 708.34 of this subpart (relating to the investigation, hearing, and OHA appeal process). Failure by the DOE to comply with timing requirements does not create a substantive right for any party to overturn a DOE decision on a complaint.
§ 708.43
Affirmative duty not to retaliate.
DOE contractors will not retaliate against any employee because the employee (or any person acting at the request of the employee) has taken an action listed in § 708.5(a) through (c).
Pt. 709

# PART 709—COUNTERINTELLIGENCE EVALUATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
709.1
Purpose.
709.2
Definitions.
709.3
Covered persons subject to a CI evaluation and polygraph.
709.4
Notification of a CI evaluation.
709.5
Waiver of polygraph examination requirements.

# Subpart B—CI Evaluation Protocols and Protection of National Security
709.10
Scope of a counterintelligence evaluation.
709.11
Topics within the scope of a polygraph examination.
709.12
Defining polygraph examination questions.
709.13
Implications of refusal to take a polygraph examination.
709.14
Consequences of a refusal to complete a CI evaluation including a polygraph examination.
709.15
Processing counterintelligence evaluation results.
709.16
Application of Counterintelligence Evaluation Review Boards in reaching conclusions regarding CI evaluations.
709.17
Final disposition of CI evaluation findings and recommendations.

# Subpart C—Safeguarding Privacy and Employee Rights
709.21
Requirements for notification of a polygraph examination.
709.22
Right to counsel or other representation.
709.23
Obtaining consent to a polygraph examination.
709.24
Other information provided to the covered person prior to a polygraph examination.
709.25
Limits on use of polygraph examination results that reflect “Significant Response” or “No Opinion”.
709.26
Protection of confidentiality of CI evaluation records to include polygraph examination records and other pertinent documentation.

# Subpart D—Polygraph Examination and Examiner Standards
709.31
DOE standards for polygraph examiners and polygraph examinations.
709.32
Training requirements for polygraph examiners.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2011,
et seq.,
7101,
et seq.,
7144b,
et seq.,
7383h-1; 50 U.S.C. 2401,
et seq.

# Source:
71 FR 57392, Sept. 29, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 709.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Describes the categories of individuals who are subject for counterintelligence evaluation processing;
(b) Provides guidelines for the counterintelligence evaluation process, including the use of counterintelligence-scope polygraph examinations, and for the use of event-specific polygraph examinations; and
(c) Provides guidelines for protecting the rights of individual DOE employees and DOE contractor employees subject to this part.
§ 709.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Access authorization
means an administrative determination under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, Executive Order 12968, or 10 CFR part 710 that an individual is eligible for access to classified matter or is eligible for access to, or control over, special nuclear material.
Adverse personnel action
means:
(1) With regard to a DOE employee, the removal, suspension for more than 14 days, reduction in grade or pay, or a furlough of 30 days or less as described in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75; or
(2) With regard to a contractor employee, the discharge, discipline, or denial of employment or promotion, or any other discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of employment or any term or condition of employment.
Contractor
means any industrial, educational, commercial, or other entity, assistance recipient, or licensee, including an individual who has executed an agreement with DOE for the purpose of performing under a contract, license, or other agreement, and including any subcontractors of any tier.
Counterintelligence or CI
means information gathered and activities conducted to protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons, or international terrorist activities, but not including personnel, physical, document or communications security programs.
Counterintelligence evaluation or CI evaluation
means the process, possibly including a counterintelligence scope polygraph examination, used to make recommendations as to whether certain employees should have access to information or materials protected by this part.
Counterintelligence program office
means the Office of Counterintelligence in the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (and any successor office to which that office's duties and authorities may be reassigned).
Counterintelligence-scope or CI-scope polygraph examination
means a polygraph examination using questions reasonably calculated to obtain counterintelligence information, including questions relating to espionage, sabotage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure of classified information, deliberate damage to or malicious misuse of a United States Government information or defense system, and unauthorized contact with foreign nationals.
Covered person
means an applicant for employment with DOE or a DOE contractor, a DOE employee, a DOE contractor employee, and an assignee or detailee to DOE from another agency.
DOE
means the Department of Energy including the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA).
Foreign nexus
means specific indications that a covered person is or may be engaged in clandestine or unreported relationships with foreign powers, organizations or persons, or international terrorists; contacts with foreign intelligence services; or other hostile activities directed against DOE facilities, property, personnel, programs or contractors by or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons, or international terrorists.
Human Reliability Program
means the program under 10 CFR part 712.
Intelligence
means information relating to the capabilities, intentions, or activities of foreign governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations or foreign persons.
Local commuting area
means the geographic area that usually constitutes one area for employment purposes. It includes any population center (or two or more neighboring ones) and the surrounding localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
Materials
means any “nuclear explosive” as defined in 10 CFR 712.3, and any “special nuclear material,” hazardous “source material,” and hazardous “byproduct material” as those terms are defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014).
National security information
means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12958, as amended by Executive Order 13292, or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.
NNSA
means DOE's National Nuclear Security Administration.
No opinion
means an evaluation of a polygraph test by a polygraph examiner in which the polygraph examiner cannot render an opinion.
Polygraph examination
means all activities that take place between a Polygraph Examiner and an examinee (person taking the test) during a specific series of interactions, including the pretest interview, the use of the polygraph instrument to collect physiological data from the examinee while presenting a series of tests, the test data analysis phase, and the post-test phase.
Polygraph examination records
means all records of the polygraph examination, including the polygraph report, audio-video recording, and the polygraph consent form.
Polygraph instrument
means a diagnostic instrument used during a polygraph examination, which is capable of monitoring, recording and/or measuring at a minimum, respiratory, electrodermal, and cardiovascular activity as a response to verbal or visual stimuli.
Polygraph report
means a document that may contain identifying data of the examinee, a synopsis of the basis for which the examination was conducted, the relevant questions utilized, and the examiner's conclusion.
Polygraph test
means that portion of the polygraph examination during which the polygraph instrument collects physiological data based upon the individual's responses to questions from the examiner.
Program Manager
means a DOE official designated by the Secretary or the Head of a DOE Element to make an access determination under this part.
Random
means a statistical process whereby eligible employees have an equal probability of selection for a CI evaluation each time the selection process occurs.
Regular and routine
means access by individuals without further permission more than two times per calendar quarter.
Relevant questions
are those questions used during the polygraph examination that pertain directly to the issues for which the examination is being conducted.
Restricted data
means all data concerning the design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; the production of special nuclear material; or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but does not include data declassified or removed
from the restricted data category pursuant to section 142 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
Secret
means the security classification that is applied to DOE-generated information or material the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause serious damage to the national security.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy or the Secretary's designee.
Significant response
means an opinion that the analysis of the polygraph charts reveals consistent, significant, timely physiological responses to the relevant questions.
Special Access Program or SAP
means a program established under Executive Order 12958 for a specific class of classified information that imposes safeguarding and access requirements that exceed those normally required for information at the same classification level.
Suspend
means temporarily to withdraw an employee's access to information or materials protected under § 709.3 of this part.
System Administrator
means any individual who has privileged system, data, or software access that permits that individual to exceed the authorization of a normal system user and thereby override, alter, or negate integrity verification and accountability procedures or other automated and/or technical safeguards provided by the systems security assets for normal users.
Top Secret
means the security classification that is applied to DOE-generated information or material the unauthorized disclosure of which reasonably could be expected to cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security.
Unresolved issues
means an opinion by a CI evaluator that the analysis of the information developed during a CI evaluation remains inconclusive and needs further clarification before a CI access recommendation can be made.
§ 709.3
Covered persons subject to a CI evaluation and polygraph.
(a)
Mandatory CI evaluation.
Except as provided in § 709.5 of this part with regard to waivers, a CI evaluation, which may include a CI-scope polygraph examination, is required for any covered person in any category under paragraph (b) of this section who will have or has access to classified information or materials protected under this paragraph. Such an evaluation is required for covered persons who are incumbent employees at least once every five years. DOE, in its sole discretion, may require a CI-scope polygraph examination:
(1) If the CI evaluation reveals foreign nexus issues;
(2) If a covered person who is an incumbent employee is to be assigned within DOE to activities involving another agency and a polygraph examination is required as a condition of access to the activities by the other agency; or
(3) If a covered person who is an incumbent employee is proposed to be assigned or detailed to another agency and the receiving agency requests DOE to administer a polygraph examination as a condition of the assignment or detail.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section applies to covered persons:
(1) In an intelligence or counterintelligence program office (or with programmatic reporting responsibility to an intelligence or counterintelligence program office) because of access to classified intelligence information, or sources, or methods;
(2) With access to Sensitive Compartmented Information;
(3) With access to information that is protected within a non-intelligence Special Access Program (SAP) designated by the Secretary;
(4) With regular and routine access to Top Secret Restricted Data;
(5) With regular and routine access to Top Secret National Security Information; and
(6) Designated, with approval of the Secretary, on the basis of a risk assessment consistent with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, by a Program Manager for the following DOE offices and programs (and any successors to those offices and programs): The Office of the Secretary; the Human Reliability Program; the National Nuclear Security Administration (including the Office of Emergency Operations); and the Office of Health, Safety and Security.
(c)
Random CI evaluation.
Except as provided in § 709.5 of this part with regard to waivers, DOE may require a CI evaluation, including a CI-scope polygraph examination, of covered persons who are incumbent employees selected on a random basis from the following:
(1) All covered persons identified in § 709.3(b);
(2) All employees in the Office of Independent Oversight (or any successor office) within the Office of Health, Safety and Security because of access to classified information regarding the inspection and assessment of safeguards and security functions, including cyber security, of the DOE;
(3) All employees in other elements of the Office of Health, Safety and Security (or any successor office) because of their access to classified information;
(4) All employees in the NNSA Office of Emergency Operations (OEO or any successor office) including DOE field offices or contractors who support OEO because of their access to classified information;
(5) All employees with regular and routine access to classified information concerning: The design and function of nuclear weapons use control systems, features, and their components (currently designated as Sigma 15); vulnerability of nuclear weapons to deliberate unauthorized nuclear detonation (currently designated as Sigma 14); and improvised nuclear device concepts or designs; and
(6) Any system administrator with access to a system containing classified information, as identified by the DOE or NNSA Chief Information Officer.
(d)
Specific incident polygraph examinations.
In response to specific facts or circumstances with potential counterintelligence implications with a defined foreign nexus, the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (or, in the case of a covered person in NNSA, the Administrator of NNSA, after consideration of the recommendation of the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence) may require a covered person with access to DOE classified information or materials to consent to and take an event-specific polygraph examination. Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary, on the recommendation of the appropriate Program Manager, if a covered person with access to DOE classified information or materials refuses to consent to or take a polygraph examination under this paragraph, then the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (or, in the case of a covered person in NNSA, the Administrator of NNSA, after consideration of the recommendation of the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence) shall direct the denial of access (if any) to classified information and materials protected under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and shall refer the matter to the Office of Health, Safety and Security for a review of access authorization eligibility under 10 CFR part 710. In addition, in the circumstances described in this paragraph, any covered person with access to DOE classified information or material may request a polygraph examination.
(e)
Risk assessment.
For the purpose of deciding whether to designate or remove employees for mandatory CI evaluations under paragraph (b)(6) of this section, Program Managers may consider:
(1) Access on a non-regular and non-routine basis to Top Secret Restricted Data or Top Secret National Security Information or the nature and extent of access to other classified information;
(2) Unescorted or unrestricted access to significant quantities or forms of special nuclear materials; and
(3) Any other factors concerning the employee's responsibilities that are relevant to determining risk of unauthorized disclosure of classified information or materials.
(f) Based on the risk assessments conducted under paragraph (e) of this section and in consultation with the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, the Program Manager shall provide recommendations as to positions to be designated or removed under paragraph (b)(6) of this section for approval by the Secretary. Recommendations shall include a summary of the basis for designation or removal of the positions and of the views of the Director of the Office of
Intelligence and Counterintelligence as to the recommendations.
(g) Not less than once every calendar year quarter, the responsible Program Manager must provide a list of all incumbent employees who are covered persons under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence.
§ 709.4
Notification of a CI evaluation.
(a) If a polygraph examination is scheduled, DOE must notify the covered person, in accordance with § 709.21 of this part.
(b) Any job announcement or posting with respect to any position with access to classified information or materials protected under § 709.3(b) and (c) of this part should indicate that DOE may condition the selection of an individual for the position (709.3(b)) or retention in that position (709.3(b) and (c)) upon his or her successful completion of a CI evaluation, including a CI-scope polygraph examination.
(c) Advance notice will be provided to the affected Program Manager and laboratory/site/facility director of the covered persons who are included in any random examinations that are administered in accordance with provisions at § 709.3(c).
§ 709.5
Waiver of polygraph examination requirements.
(a)
General.
Upon a waiver request submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, DOE may waive the CI-scope polygraph examination under § 709.3 of this part for:
(1) Any covered person based upon certification from another Federal agency that the covered person has successfully completed a full scope or CI-scope polygraph examination administered within the previous five years;
(2) Any covered person who is being treated for a medical or psychological condition that, based upon consultation with the covered person and appropriate medical personnel, would preclude the covered person from being tested; or
(3) Any covered person in the interest of national security.
(b)
Submission of Waiver Requests.
A covered person may submit a request for waiver under this section, and the request shall assert the basis for the waiver sought and shall be submitted, in writing, to the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, at the following address: U.S. Department of Energy, Attn: Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585.
(c)
Disposition of Waiver Requests.
The Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, shall issue a written decision on a request for waiver prior to the administration of a polygraph examination. The Director shall obtain the concurrence of the Secretary in his or her decision on a request for waiver under § 709.5(a)(3) and shall obtain the concurrence of the Administrator of NNSA in a decision on a waiver request from an NNSA covered person under § 709.5(a)(1) and § 709.5(a)(2). Notification of approval of a waiver request will contain information regarding the duration of the waiver and any other relevant information. Notification of the denial of a waiver request will state the basis for the denial and state that the covered person may request reconsideration of the denial by the Secretary under § 709.5(d).
(d)
Reconsideration Rights.
If a waiver is denied, the covered person may file with the Secretary a request for reconsideration of the denial within 30 days of receipt of the decision, and the Secretary's decision will be issued prior to the administration of a polygraph examination.

# Subpart B—CI Evaluation Protocols and Protection of National Security
§ 709.10
Scope of a counterintelligence evaluation.
A counterintelligence evaluation consists of a counterintelligence-based review of the covered person's personnel security file and review of other relevant information available to DOE in accordance with applicable guidelines and authorities. As provided in § 709.3(b), DOE also may require a CI-
scope polygraph examination. As provided for in § 709.3(c), a CI evaluation, if conducted on a random basis, will include a CI-scope polygraph examination. As set forth in § 709.15(b) and (c) of this part, a counterintelligence evaluation may also include other pertinent measures to address and resolve counterintelligence issues in accordance with Executive Order 12333, the DOE “Procedures for Intelligence Activities,” and other relevant laws, guidelines and authorities, as applicable.
§ 709.11
Topics within the scope of a polygraph examination.
(a) DOE may ask questions in a specific incident polygraph examination that are appropriate for a CI-scope examination or that are relevant to the counterintelligence concerns with a defined foreign nexus raised by the specific incident.
(b) A CI-scope polygraph examination is limited to topics concerning the covered person's involvement in espionage, sabotage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure of classified information, unauthorized foreign contacts, and deliberate damage to or malicious misuse of a U.S. government information or defense system.
(c) DOE may not ask questions that:
(1) Probe a covered person's thoughts or beliefs;
(2) Concern conduct that has no CI implication with a defined foreign nexus; or
(3) Concern conduct that has no direct relevance to a CI evaluation.
§ 709.12
Defining polygraph examination questions.
The examiner determines the exact wording of the polygraph questions based on the examiner's pretest interview of the covered person, the covered person's understanding of the questions, established test question procedures from the Department of Defense Polygraph Institute, and other input from the covered person.
§ 709.13
Implications of refusal to take a polygraph examination.
(a) Subject to § 709.14 of this part, a covered person may refuse to take a polygraph examination pursuant to § 709.3 of this part, and a covered person being examined may terminate the examination at any time.
(b) If a covered person terminates a polygraph examination prior to the completion of the examination, DOE may treat that termination as a refusal to complete a CI evaluation under § 709.14 of this part.
§ 709.14
Consequences of a refusal to complete a CI evaluation including a polygraph examination.
(a) If a covered person is an applicant for employment or assignment or a potential detailee or assignee with regard to an identified position and the covered person refuses to complete a CI evaluation including a polygraph examination required by this part as an initial condition of access, DOE and its contractors must refuse to employ, assign, or detail that covered person with regard to the identified position.
(b) If a covered person is an incumbent employee in an identified position subject to a CI evaluation including a polygraph examination under § 709.3(b), (c), or (d), and the covered person refuses to complete a CI evaluation, DOE and its contractors must deny that covered person access to classified information and materials protected under § 709.3(b) and (c) and may take other actions consistent with the denial of access, including administrative review of access authorization under 10 CFR part 710. If the covered person is a DOE employee, DOE may reassign or realign the DOE employee's duties, or take other action, consistent with that denial of access and applicable personnel regulations.
(c) If a DOE employee refuses to take a CI polygraph examination, DOE may not record the fact of that refusal in the employee's personnel file.
§ 709.15
Processing counterintelligence evaluation results.
(a) If the reviews under § 709.10 or a polygraph examination present unresolved foreign nexus issues that raise significant questions about the covered person's access to classified information or materials protected under § 709.3 of this part that justified the counterintelligence evaluation, DOE may undertake a more comprehensive
CI evaluation that, in appropriate circumstances, may include evaluation of financial, credit, travel, and other relevant information to resolve any identified issues. Participation by Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence personnel in any such evaluation is subject to Executive Order 12333, the DOE “Procedures for Intelligence Activities,” and other relevant laws, guidelines, and authorities as may be applicable with respect to such matters.
(b) The Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, in coordination with NNSA with regard to issues concerning a NNSA covered person, may conduct an in-depth interview with the covered person, may request relevant information from the covered person, and may arrange for the covered person to undergo an additional polygraph examination.
(c) Whenever information is developed by the Office of Health, Safety and Security indicating counterintelligence issues, the Director of that Office shall notify the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence.
(d) If, in carrying out a comprehensive CI evaluation of a covered person under this section, there are significant unresolved issues, not exclusively related to polygraph examination results, indicating counterintelligence issues, then the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence shall notify the DOE national laboratory director (if applicable), plant manager (if applicable) and program manager(s) for whom the individual works that the covered person is undergoing a CI evaluation pursuant to this part and that the evaluation is not yet complete.
(e) Utilizing the DOE security criteria in 10 CFR part 710, the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, makes a determination whether a covered person completing a CI evaluation has made disclosures that warrant referral, as appropriate, to the Office of Health, Safety and Security or the Manager of the applicable DOE/NNSA Site, Operations Office or Service Center.
§ 709.16
Application of Counterintelligence Evaluation Review Boards in reaching conclusions regarding CI evaluations.
(a)
General.
If the results of a counterintelligence evaluation are not dispositive, the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence may convene a Counterintelligence Evaluation Review Board to obtain the individual views of each member as assistance in resolving counterintelligence issues identified during a counterintelligence evaluation.
(b)
Composition.
A Counterintelligence Evaluation Review Board is chaired by the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (or his/her designee) and includes representation from the appropriate line Program Managers, lab/site/facility management (if a contractor employee is involved), NNSA, if the unresolved issues involve an NNSA covered person, the DOE Office of Health, Safety and Security and security directors for the DOE or NNSA site or operations office.
(c)
Process.
When making a final recommendation under § 709.17 of this part, to a Program Manager, the Director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence shall report on the Counterintelligence Evaluation Review Board's views, including any consensus recommendation, or if the members are divided, a summary of majority and dissenting views.
§ 709.17
Final disposition of CI evaluation findings and recommendations.
(a) Following completion of a CI evaluation, the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence must recommend, in writing, to the appropriate Program Manager that the covered person's access be approved or retained, or denied or revoked.
(b) If the Program Manager agrees with the recommendation, the Program Manager notifies the covered person that the covered person's access has been approved or retained, or denied or revoked.
(c) If the Program Manager disagrees with the recommendation of the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, the matter is referred to the Secretary for a final decision.
(d) If the Program Manager denies or revokes a DOE employee's access, DOE may reassign the employee or realign the employee's duties within the local commuting area or take other actions consistent with the denial of access.
(e) If the Program Manager revokes the access of a covered person assigned or detailed to DOE, DOE may remove the assignee or detailee from access to the information that justified the CI evaluation and return the assignee or detailee to the agency of origin.
(f) Covered persons whose access is denied or revoked may request reconsideration by the head of the relevant DOE element.
(g) For cases involving a question of loyalty to the United States, the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence may refer the matter to the FBI as required by section 145d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. For cases indicating that classified information is being, or may have been, disclosed in an unauthorized manner to a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power, DOE is required by 50 U.S.C. 402a(e) to refer the matter to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

# Subpart C—Safeguarding Privacy and Employee Rights
§ 709.21
Requirements for notification of a polygraph examination.
When a polygraph examination is scheduled, the DOE must notify the covered person, in writing, of the date, time, and place of the polygraph examination, the provisions for a medical waiver, and the covered person's right to obtain and consult with legal counsel or to secure another representative prior to the examination. DOE must provide a copy of this part to the covered person. The covered person must receive the notification at least ten days, excluding weekend days and holidays, before the time of the examination except when good cause is shown or when the covered person waives the advance notice provision.
§ 709.22
Right to counsel or other representation.
(a) At the covered person's own expense, a covered person has the right to obtain and consult with legal counsel or another representative. However, the counsel or representative may not be present during the polygraph examination. Except for interpreters and signers, no one other than the covered person and the examiner may be present in the examination room during the polygraph examination.
(b) A covered person has the right to consult with legal counsel or another representative at any time during an interview conducted in accordance with § 709.15 of this part.
§ 709.23
Obtaining consent to a polygraph examination.
DOE may not administer a polygraph examination unless DOE:
(a) Notifies the covered person of the polygraph examination in writing in accordance with § 709.21 of this part; and
(b) Obtains written consent from the covered person prior to the polygraph examination.
§ 709.24
Other information provided to a covered person prior to a polygraph examination.
Before administering the polygraph examination, the examiner must:
(a) Inform the covered person that audio and video recording of each polygraph examination session will be made, and that other observation devices, such as two-way mirrors and observation rooms, also may be employed;
(b) Explain to the covered person the characteristics and nature of the polygraph instrument and examination;
(c) Explain to the covered person the physical operation of the instrument and the procedures to be followed during the examination;
(d) Review with the covered person the relevant questions to be asked during the examination;
(e) Advise the covered person of the covered person right against self-incrimination; and
(f) Provide the covered person with a pre-addressed envelope, which may be used to submit a quality assurance questionnaire, comments or complaints concerning the examination.
§ 709.25
Limits on use of polygraph examination results that reflect “Significant Response” or “No Opinion”.
DOE or its contractors may not:
(a) Take an adverse personnel action against a covered person or make an adverse access recommendation solely on the basis of a polygraph examination result of “significant response” or “no opinion”; or
(b) Use a polygraph examination that reflects “significant response” or “no opinion” as a substitute for any other required investigation.
§ 709.26
Protection of confidentiality of CI evaluation records to include polygraph examination records and other pertinent documentation.
(a) DOE owns all CI evaluation records, including polygraph examination records and reports and other evaluation documentation.
(b) DOE maintains all CI evaluation records, including polygraph examination records and other pertinent documentation acquired in conjunction with a counterintelligence evaluation, in a system of records established under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
(c) DOE must afford the full privacy protection provided by law to information regarding a covered person's refusal to participate in a CI evaluation to include a polygraph examination and the completion of other pertinent documentation.
(d) With the exception of the polygraph report, all other polygraph examination records are destroyed ninety days after the CI evaluation is completed, provided that a favorable recommendation has been made to grant or continue the access to the position. If a recommendation is made to deny or revoke access to the information or involvement in the activities that justified conducting the CI evaluation, then all of the polygraph examination records are retained until the final resolution of any request for reconsideration by the covered person or the completion of any ongoing investigation.

# Subpart D—Polygraph Examination and Examiner Standards
§ 709.31
DOE standards for polygraph examiners and polygraph examinations.
(a) DOE adheres to the procedures and standards established by the Department of Defense Polygraph Institute (DODPI). DOE administers only DODPI approved testing formats.
(b) A polygraph examiner may administer no more than five polygraph examinations in any twenty-four hour period. This does not include those instances in which a covered person voluntarily terminates an examination prior to the actual testing phase.
(c) The polygraph examiner must be certified to conduct polygraph examinations under this part by the DOE Psychophysiological Detection of Deception/Polygraph Program Quality Control Official.
(d) To be certified under paragraph (c) of this section, an examiner must have the following minimum qualifications:
(1) The examiner must be an experienced CI or criminal investigator with extensive additional training in using computerized instrumentation in Psychophysiological Detection of Deception and in psychology, physiology, interviewing, and interrogation.
(2) The examiner must have a favorably adjudicated single-scope background investigation, complete a CI-scope polygraph examination, and must hold a “Q” access authorization, which is necessary for access to Secret Restricted Data and Top Secret National Security Information. In addition, he or she must have been granted SCI access approval.
(3) The examiner must receive basic Forensic Psychophysiological Detection of Deception training from the DODPI.
§ 709.32
Training requirements for polygraph examiners.
(a) Examiners must complete an initial training course of thirteen weeks, or longer, in conformance with the procedures and standards established by DODPI.
(b) Examiners must undergo annual continuing education for a minimum of
forty hours training within the discipline of Forensic Psychophysiological Detection of Deception.
(c) The following organizations provide acceptable curricula to meet the training requirement of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) American Polygraph Association,
(2) American Association of Police Polygraphists, and
(3) Department of Defense Polygraph Institute.
Pt. 710

# PART 710—PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED MATTER AND SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL OR ELIGIBILITY TO HOLD A SENSITIVE POSITION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
710.1
Purpose.
710.2
Scope.
710.3
[Reserved]
710.4
Policy.
710.5
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Eligibility for Access to Classified Matter or Special Nuclear Material
710.6
Cooperation by the individual.
710.7
Application of the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines.
710.8
Action on derogatory information.
710.9
Suspension of access authorization.

# Subpart C—Administrative Review
710.20
Purpose of administrative review.
710.21
Notice to the individual.
710.22
Initial decision process.
710.23
Extensions of time by the manager.
710.24
Appointment of DOE Counsel.
710.25
Appointment of Administrative Judge; prehearing conference; commencement of hearings.
710.26
Conduct of hearings.
710.27
Administrative Judge's decision.
710.28
Action on the Administrative Judge's decision.
710.29
Final appeal process.
710.30
Action by the Secretary.
710.31
Reconsideration of access eligibility.

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
710.32
Terminations.
710.33
Time frames.
710.34
Acting officials.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2165, 2201, 5815, 7101,
et seq.,
7383h-l; 50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.;
E.O. 10865, 3 CFR 1959-1963 comp., p. 398, as amended, 3 CFR Chap. IV; E.O. 13526, 3 CFR 2010 Comp., pp. 298-327 (or successor orders); E.O. 12968, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 391; E.O. 13467, 3 CFR 2008 Comp., p. 196.

# Source:
81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 710.1
Purpose.
(a) This part establishes the procedures for determining the eligibility of individuals described in § 710.2 for access to classified matter or special nuclear material, pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, or for access to national security information in accordance with E.O. 13526 (Classified National Security Information), or eligibility to hold a sensitive position pursuant to E.O. 13467 (Reforming Processes Related to Suitability for Government Employment, Fitness for Contractor Employees, and Eligibility for Access to Classified National Security Information).
(b) This part implements: E.O. 12968, 60 FR 40245 (August 2, 1995), as amended; E.O. 13526, 75 FR 707 (January 5, 2010) as amended; E.O. 10865, 25 FR 1583 (February 24, 1960), as amended; E.O. 13467, 73 FR 38103 (June 30, 2008) as amended; and the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines, issued as SEAD 4, by the Director of National Intelligence on December 10, 2016, or successor directive.
[89 FR 59595, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.2
Scope.
(a) The procedures outlined in this part apply to determinations of eligibility for access authorization or eligibility to hold a sensitive position for:
(1) Employees (including consultants) of, and applicants for employment with, contractors and agents of the DOE;
(2) Access permittees of the DOE and their employees (including consultants) and applicants for employment;
(3) Employees (including consultants) of, and applicants for employment with, the DOE; and
(4) Other persons designated by the Secretary of Energy.
(b) To the extent the procedures in this part apply to determinations of
eligibility for access to classified information or special nuclear material, they shall also apply to determinations of eligibility to hold a sensitive position, except as specifically noted.
[89 FR 59595, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.3
[Reserved]
§ 710.4
Policy.
(a) It is the policy of DOE to provide for the security of its programs in a manner consistent with traditional American concepts of justice and fairness. To this end, the Secretary has established procedures that will afford those individuals described in § 710.2 the opportunity for administrative review of questions concerning their eligibility for access authorization or eligibility to hold a sensitive position.
(b) It is also the policy of DOE that none of the procedures established for determining eligibility for access authorization or eligibility to hold a sensitive position shall be used for an improper purpose, including any attempt to coerce, restrain, threaten, intimidate, or retaliate against individuals for exercising their rights under any statute, regulation or DOE directive. Any DOE officer or employee violating, or causing the violation of this policy, shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
[89 FR 59595, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.5
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part:
Access authorization
means an administrative determination that an individual is eligible for access to classified matter or is eligible for access to, or control over, special nuclear material.
Administrative Judge
means a DOE attorney appointed by the Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals, pursuant to § 710.25 of this part. An Administrative Judge shall be a U.S. citizen and shall hold a Q access authorization.
Classified matter
means the material of thought or expression that is classified pursuant to statute or Executive Order.
Continuous vetting
means reviewing the background of an individual described in § 710.2(a)(1) through (4) at any time to determine whether that individual continues to meet applicable requirements for access authorization or a sensitive position.
Director
means the Director, DOE Office of Departmental Personnel Security.
DOE Counsel
means a DOE attorney assigned to represent DOE in proceedings under this part. DOE Counsel shall be a U.S. citizen and shall hold a Q access authorization.
Local Director of Security
means the individual with primary responsibility for safeguards and security at the Idaho Operations Office; for the Office of Environmental Management (EM), the individual(s) designated in writing by the Senior Advisor, or delegee; for the Office of Science (SC), the individual designated in writing by the Deputy Director for Operations; for Naval Reactors, the individual(s) designated under the authority of the Director, Security Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program; for the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), the individual(s) designated in writing by the Chief, Defense Nuclear Security; and for DOE Headquarters cases the Director, Office of Headquarters Personnel Security Operations.
Manager
means the senior Federal official at the Idaho, Richland (to include the Office of River Protection) Operations Offices; for the Office of Environmental Management, the individual(s) designated in writing by the Senior Advisor, or delegee; for the Office of Science (SC), the individual designated in writing by the Deputy Director for Operations; for Naval Reactors, the individual designated under the authority of the Director, Security Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program; for the NNSA, the individual designated in writing by the NNSA Administrator or Deputy Administrator; and for DOE Headquarters cases, the Director, Office of Headquarters Security Vetting.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy, as provided by section 201 of the Department of Energy Organization Act.
Sensitive position
means any position within or in support of a department or agency, the occupant of which could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the position, a material adverse effect on the national security, regardless of
whether the occupant has access to classified information, and regardless of whether the occupant is an employee, a military service member, or a contractor. Sensitive positions for the purpose of this part only include individuals designated by DOE in non-critical sensitive, critical sensitive or special sensitive positions.
Special nuclear material
means plutonium, uranium enriched in the isotope 233, or in the isotope 235, and any other material which, pursuant to the provisions of section 51 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, has been determined to be special nuclear material, but does not include source material; or any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing, not including source material.
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59595, July 23, 2024]

# Subpart B—Eligibility for Access to Classified Matter or Special Nuclear Material
§ 710.6
Cooperation by the individual.
(a)(1) It is the responsibility of the individual to provide full, frank, and truthful answers to DOE's relevant and material questions, and when requested, to furnish or authorize others to furnish information that the DOE deems pertinent to the individual's eligibility for access authorization. This obligation to cooperate applies when completing security forms, during the course of a personnel security background investigation, reinvestigation or continuous vetting, and at any stage of DOE's processing of the individual's access authorization request, including but not limited to, personnel security consultations, DOE-sponsored mental health evaluations, and other authorized DOE actions under this part. The individual may elect not to cooperate; however, such refusal may prevent DOE from reaching an affirmative finding required for granting or continuing the access authorization. In this event, for incumbents any access authorization then in effect may be administratively withdrawn or, for applicants, further processing may be administratively terminated.
(2) It is the responsibility of an individual subject to 10 CFR 709.3(d) to consent to and take a polygraph examination required by part 709. A refusal to consent to or take such an examination may prevent DOE from reaching an affirmative finding required for continuing access authorization. In this event, any access authorization then in effect may be administratively withdrawn.
(b) If the individual believes that the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section have been inappropriately applied, the individual may file a written appeal of the action with the Director within 30 calendar days of the date the individual was notified of the action.
(c) Upon receipt of the written appeal, the Director shall conduct an inquiry as to the circumstances involved in the action and shall, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the written appeal, notify the individual, in writing, of their decision. If the Director determines that the action was inappropriate, the Director shall notify the Manager that access authorization must be reinstated or, for applicants, that the individual must continue to be processed for access authorization. If the Director determines the action was appropriate, the Director shall notify the individual of this fact in writing. The Director's decision is final and not subject to further review or appeal.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.7
Application of the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines.
(a) The decision on an access authorization request is a comprehensive, common-sense judgment, made after consideration of all relevant information, favorable and unfavorable, as to whether the granting or continuation of access authorization will not endanger the common defense and security and is clearly consistent with the national interest. Any doubt as to an individual's access authorization eligibility shall be resolved in favor of the national security.
(b) All such determinations shall be based upon the application of the National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (Adjudicative Guidelines), or any
successor national standard issued under authority of the President.
(c) Each Adjudicative Guideline sets forth a series of concerns that may create a doubt regarding an individual's eligibility for access authorization. In resolving these concerns, all DOE officials involved in the decision-making process shall consider: The nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct; the circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable participation; the frequency and recency of the conduct; the age and maturity of the individual at the time of the conduct; the voluntariness of participation; the absence or presence of rehabilitation or reformation and other pertinent behavioral changes; the motivation for the conduct; the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; the likelihood of continuation or recurrence; and other relevant and material factors.
(d) If the investigative results report of an individual or other reliable information tend to establish the validity and significance of one or more areas of concern as set forth in the Adjudicative Guidelines, such information shall be regarded as derogatory and create a question as to the individual's access authorization eligibility. Absent any derogatory information, a favorable determination will be made as to access authorization eligibility.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 57107, Dec. 4, 2017; 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.8
Action on derogatory information.
(a) If a question arises as to the individual's access authorization eligibility, the Local Director of Security shall authorize the conduct of a consultation with the individual, or other appropriate actions and, on the basis of the results of such consultation or actions, may authorize the granting of the individual's access authorization. If, in the opinion of the Local Director of Security, the question as to the individual's access authorization eligibility has not been favorably resolved, the Local Director of Security shall submit the matter to the Manager with a recommendation that authority be obtained to process the individual's case under administrative review procedures set forth in this part.
(b) If the Manager agrees that unresolved derogatory information is present and that appropriate attempts to resolve such derogatory information have been unsuccessful, the Manager shall notify the Director of the proposal to conduct an administrative review proceeding, accompanied by an explanation of the security concerns and a duplicate Personnel Security File. If the Manager believes that the derogatory information has been favorably resolved, the Manager shall direct that access authorization be granted for the individual. The Manager may also direct the Local Director of Security to obtain additional information prior to deciding whether to grant the individual access authorization or to submit a request for authority to conduct an administrative review proceeding. A decision in the matter shall be rendered by the Manager within 10 calendar days of its receipt.
(c) Upon receipt of the Manager's notification, the Director shall review the matter and confer with the Manager on:
(1) The institution of administrative review proceedings set forth in §§ 710.20 through 710.30;
(2) The granting of access authorization; or
(3) Other actions as the Director deems appropriate.
(d) The Director shall act pursuant to one of these options within 30 calendar days of receipt of the Manager's notification unless an extension is granted by the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023; 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.9
Suspension of access authorization.
(a) If derogatory information is received, the Local Director of Security shall authorize action(s), to be taken on an expedited basis, to resolve the question pursuant to § 710.8(a). If the question as to the individual's continued access authorization eligibility is not resolved in favor of the individual, the Local Director of Security shall
submit the matter to the Manager with the recommendation that the individual's access authorization be suspended pending the final determination resulting from the procedures set forth in this part.
(b) If the information received is determined to represent an immediate threat to national security or to the safety or security of a DOE facility or employee, or is determined to be so serious in nature that action(s) to resolve the matter as set forth in § 710.8(b) are not practical or advisable, the Local Director of Security shall immediately submit the matter to the Manager with a recommendation that the individual's access authorization be suspended pending the final determination resulting from the procedures set forth in this part. The Manager shall either authorize the immediate suspension of access authorization, or shall direct the Local Director of Security to take action(s) as set forth in § 710.8(b), in an expedited manner, to resolve the matter.
(c) The Manager shall, within two working days of receipt of the recommendation from the Local Director of Security to suspend the individual's DOE access authorization:
(1) Approve the suspension of access authorization; or
(2) Direct the continuation of access authorization, or
(3) Take or direct other such action(s) as the Manager deems appropriate.
(d) Upon suspension of an individual's access authorization pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the individual, the individual's employer, any other DOE office or program having an access authorization interest in the individual, and, if known, any other government agency where the individual holds an access authorization, security clearance, or access approval, or to which the DOE has certified the individual's DOE access authorization, shall be notified immediately in writing. The appropriate DOE database for tracking access authorizations and related actions shall also be updated. Notification to the individual shall reflect, in general terms, the reason(s) why the suspension has been affected. Pending final determination of the individual's eligibility for access authorization from the operation of the procedures set forth in this part, the individual shall not be afforded access to classified matter, special nuclear material, or unescorted access to security areas that require the individual to possess a DOE access authorization.
(e) Written notification to the individual shall include notification that if the individual believes that the action to suspend their access authorization was taken as retaliation against the individual for having made a protected disclosure, as defined in Presidential Policy Directive 19,
Protecting Whistleblowers with Access to Classified Information,
or any successor directive issued under the authority of the President, the individual may submit a request for review of this matter directly to the DOE Office of the Inspector General. Such a request shall have no impact upon the continued processing of the individual's access authorization eligibility under this part. If the individual receives an adverse final agency determination in response to such request, the individual may submit an appeal of that decision to the Director of National Intelligence, in accordance with the Security Executive Agent Directive 9, Appellate Review of Retaliation Regarding Security Clearances and Access Determinations, or to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, in accordance with Intelligence Community Directive 120, Intelligence Community Whistleblower Protection.
(f) Following the decision to suspend an individual's DOE access authorization pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Manager shall immediately notify the Director in writing of the action and the reason(s) therefor. In addition, the Manager, within 10 calendar days of the date of suspension (unless an extension of time is approved by the Director), shall notify the Director in writing of their proposal to conduct an administrative review proceeding, accompanied by an explanation of its basis and a duplicate Personnel Security File.
(g) Upon receipt of the Manager's notification, the Director shall review the matter and confer with the Manager on:
(1) The institution of administrative review procedures set forth in §§ 710.20 through 710.30; or
(2) The reinstatement of access authorization; or
(3) Other actions as the Director deems appropriate.
(h) The Director shall act pursuant to one of these options within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the Manager's notification unless an extension is granted by the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023; 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]

# Subpart C—Administrative Review
§ 710.20
Purpose of administrative review.
These procedures govern the conduct of the administrative review of questions concerning an individual's eligibility for access authorization when it is determined that such questions cannot be favorably resolved by consultation or other action.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.21
Notice to the individual.
(a) Unless an extension is authorized in writing by the Director, within 30 calendar days of receipt of authority to institute administrative review procedures, the Manager shall prepare and deliver to the individual a notification letter approved by the local Office of Chief Counsel, or the Office of the General Counsel for Headquarters cases. Where practicable, the letter shall be delivered to the individual in person.
(b) The letter shall state:
(1) That reliable information in the possession of DOE has created a substantial doubt concerning the individual's eligibility for access authorization.
(2) The information which creates a substantial doubt regarding the individual's access authorization eligibility (which shall be as comprehensive and detailed as the national security permits) and why that information creates such doubt.
(3) That the individual has the option to have the substantial doubt regarding eligibility for access authorization resolved in one of two ways:
(i) By the Manager, without a hearing, on the basis of the existing information in the case; or
(ii) By personal appearance before an Administrative Judge (a “hearing”).
(4) That, if the individual desires a hearing, the individual must, within 20 calendar days of the date of receipt of the notification letter, make a written request for a hearing to the Manager from whom the letter was received.
(5) That the individual may also file with the Manager the individual's written answer to the reported information which raises the question of the individual's eligibility for access authorization, and that, if the individual requests a hearing without filing a written answer, the request shall be deemed a general denial of all of the reported information.
(6) That, if the individual so requests, a hearing shall be scheduled before an Administrative Judge, with due regard for the convenience and necessity of the parties or their representatives, for the purpose of affording the individual an opportunity of supporting his eligibility for access authorization. The Administrative Judge shall decide whether the hearing will be conducted via video teleconferencing.
(7) That, if a hearing is requested, the individual will have the right to appear personally before an Administrative Judge or, at the discretion of the Administrative Judge, via video teleconferencing; to present evidence in their own behalf, through witnesses, or by documents, or both; and, subject to the limitations set forth in § 710.26(g), to be present during the entire hearing and be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel or other representative of the individual's choosing and at the individual's own expense at every stage of the proceedings. Such representative or counsel, if applicable, shall be identified in writing to the Administrative Judge and DOE Counsel and authorized by the individual to receive all correspondence, transcripts and other documents pertaining to the proceedings under this part.
(8) That the individual's failure to file a timely written request for a hearing before an Administrative Judge in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, unless time deadlines are extended for good cause, shall be considered as a relinquishment by the individual of the right to a hearing provided in this part, and that in such event a final decision to deny or revoke the individual's access authorization shall be made by the Manager.
(9) That in any proceedings under this subpart DOE Counsel will participate on behalf of and representing DOE and that any statements made by the individual to DOE Counsel may be used in subsequent proceedings;
(10) The individual's access authorization status until further notice;
(11) The name and telephone number of the designated DOE official to contact for any further information desired concerning the proceedings, including an explanation of the individual's rights under the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act;
(12) If applicable, that if the individual is currently the subject of criminal charges for a felony offense or an offense punishable by imprisonment of one year or more, the individual must elect either to continue with the Administrative Review process and have the substantial doubt regarding eligibility for access authorization resolved by the Manager or by a hearing, or to withdraw from the Administrative Review process.
(i) If the individual elects to continue with the Administrative Review process a determination as to the individual's access authorization shall be made by the Manager or by an Administrative Judge via a hearing. The individual will be expected to participate fully in the process. Any refusal to cooperate, answer all questions, or provide requested information may prevent DOE from reaching an affirmative finding required for granting or continuing access authorization.
(ii) If the individual elects to withdraw from the Administrative Review process, the individual's access authorization shall be administratively withdrawn. Such action shall be taken in accordance with applicable procedures set forth in pertinent Departmental directives. Any future requests for access authorization for the individual must be accompanied by documentary evidence of resolution of the criminal charges.
(iii) The individual must, within 20 calendar days of receipt of the notification letter, indicate in writing their decision to continue or to withdraw from the Administrative Review process. Such notification must be made to the Manager from whom the notification letter was received.
(c) The notification letter referenced in paragraph (b) of this section shall also:
(1) Include a copy of this part and SEAD 4,
National Security Adjudicative Guidelines,
or successor directive; and
(2) Indicate that if the individual believes that the action to process the individual under this part was taken as retaliation against the individual for having made a protected disclosure, as defined in Presidential Policy Directive 19,
Protecting Whistleblowers with Access to Classified Information,
or any successor directive issued under the authority of the President, the individual may submit a request for review of this matter directly to the DOE Office of the Inspector General. Such a request shall have no impact upon the continued processing of the individual's access authorization eligibility under this part. If the individual receives an adverse final agency determination in response to such request, the individual may submit an appeal of that decision to the Director of National Intelligence, in accordance with the SEAD 9,
Appellate Review of Retaliation Regarding Security Clearances and Access Determinations,
or to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, in accordance with
Intelligence Community Directive 120,
Intelligence Community Whistleblower Protection.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.22
Initial decision process.
(a) The Manager shall make an initial decision as to the individual's access authorization eligibility based on the existing information in the case if:
(1) The individual fails to respond to the notification letter by filing a timely written request for a hearing before
an Administrative Judge or fails to respond to the notification letter after requesting an extension of time to do so;
(2) The individual's response to the notification letter does not request a hearing before an Administrative Judge; or
(3) The Administrative Judge refers the individual's case to the Manager in accordance with § 710.25(e) or § 710.26(b).
(b) Unless an extension of time is granted by the Director, the Manager's initial decision as to the individual's access authorization eligibility shall be made within 15 calendar days of the date of receipt of the information in paragraph (a) of this section. The Manager shall either grant or deny, or reinstate or revoke, the individual's access authorization.
(c) A letter reflecting the Manager's initial decision shall be signed by the Manager and delivered to the individual within 15 calendar days of the date of the Manager's decision unless an extension of time is granted by the Director. If the Manager's initial decision is unfavorable to the individual, the individual shall be advised:
(1) Of the Manager's unfavorable decision and the reason(s) therefor;
(2) That within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the letter, the individual may file a written request for a review of the Manager's initial decision, through the Director, to the DOE Headquarters Appeal Panel (Appeal Panel);
(3) That the Director may, for good cause shown, at the written request of the individual, extend the time for filing a written request for a review of the case by the Appeal Panel; and
(4) That if the written request for a review of the Manager's initial decision by the Appeal Panel is not filed within 30 calendar days of the individual's receipt of the Manager's letter, or by the date to which the Director has granted an extension, the Manager's initial decision in the case shall be final and not subject to further review or appeal.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.23
Extensions of time by the manager.
The Manager may, for good cause shown, at the written request of the individual, extend the time for filing a written request for a hearing, and/or the time for filing a written answer to the matters contained in the notification letter. The Manager shall notify the Director, in writing, when such extensions have been approved.
§ 710.24
Appointment of DOE Counsel.
(a) Upon receipt from the individual of a written request for a hearing, a DOE attorney shall forthwith be assigned by the Manager to act as DOE Counsel.
(b) DOE Counsel is authorized to consult directly with the individual if he/she is not represented by counsel, or with the individual's counsel or other representative if so represented, to clarify issues and reach stipulations with respect to testimony and contents of documents and physical evidence. Such stipulations shall be binding upon the individual and the DOE Counsel for the purposes of this part.
§ 710.25
Appointment of Administrative Judge; prehearing conference; commencement of hearings.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the Manager shall in a timely manner transmit that request to the Office of Hearings and Appeals, and identify the DOE Counsel. The Manager shall at the same time transmit a copy of the notification letter and the individual's response to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(b) Upon receipt of the hearing request from the Manager, the Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals, shall appoint, as soon as practicable, an Administrative Judge.
(c) Immediately upon appointment, the Administrative Judge shall notify the individual and DOE Counsel of their identity and the address to which all further correspondence should be sent.
(d) The Administrative Judge shall have all powers necessary to regulate the conduct of proceedings under this part, including, but not limited to, establishing a list of persons to receive service of papers, issuing subpoenas for
witnesses to attend the hearing or for the production of specific documents or physical evidence, administering oaths and affirmations, ruling upon motions, receiving evidence, regulating the course of the hearing, disposing of procedural requests or similar matters, and taking other actions consistent with the regulations in this part. Requests for subpoenas shall be liberally granted except where the Administrative Judge finds that the issuance of subpoenas would result in evidence or testimony that is repetitious, incompetent, irrelevant, or immaterial to the issues in the case. The Administrative Judge may take sworn testimony, sequester witnesses, and control the dissemination or reproduction of any record or testimony taken pursuant to this part, including correspondence, or other relevant records or physical evidence including, but not limited to, information retained in computerized or other automated systems in possession of the subpoenaed person.
(e) The Administrative Judge shall determine the day, time, and place for the hearing and shall decide whether the hearing will be conducted via video teleconferencing. In the event the individual fails to appear at the time and place specified, without good cause shown, the record in the case shall be closed and returned to the Manager, who shall then make an initial determination regarding the eligibility of the individual for DOE access authorization in accordance with § 710.22(a)(3).
(f) At least 7 calendar days prior to the date scheduled for the hearing, the Administrative Judge shall convene a prehearing conference for the purpose of discussing stipulations and exhibits, identifying witnesses, and disposing of other appropriate matters. The conference may be conducted by telephone, video teleconference, or other means as directed by the Administrative Judge.
(g) Hearings shall commence within 60 calendar days from the date the individual's request for a hearing is received by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Any extension of the hearing date past 60 calendar days from the date the request for a hearing is received by the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be decided by the Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59596, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.26
Conduct of hearings.
(a) In all hearings conducted under this part, the individual shall have the right to be represented by a person of their own choosing, at the individual's own expense. The individual is responsible for producing witnesses in their own behalf, including requesting the issuance of subpoenas, if necessary, or presenting testimonial, documentary, or physical evidence before the Administrative Judge to support the individual's defense to the derogatory information contained in the notification letter. With the exception of procedural or scheduling matters, the Administrative Judge is prohibited from initiating or otherwise engaging in
ex parte
discussions about the case during the pendency of proceedings under this part.
(b) Unless the Administrative Judge finds good cause for deferring issuance of a decision, in the event that the individual unduly delays the hearing, such as by failure to meet deadlines set by the Administrative Judge, the record shall be closed, and an initial decision shall be made by the Manager on the basis of the record in the case per § 710.22(a)(3).
(c) Hearings shall be open only to DOE Counsel, duly authorized representatives of DOE, the individual and the individual's counsel or other representatives, and such other persons as may be authorized by the Administrative Judge. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Judge, witnesses shall testify in the presence of the individual but not in the presence of other witnesses.
(d) DOE Counsel shall assist the Administrative Judge in establishing a complete administrative hearing record in the proceeding and bringing out a full and true disclosure of all facts, both favorable and unfavorable, having a bearing on the issues before the Administrative Judge. The individual shall be afforded the opportunity of presenting testimonial, documentary, and physical evidence, including testimony by the individual in
the individual's own behalf. All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination, if possible.
(e) The Administrative Judge may ask the witnesses any questions which the Administrative Judge deems appropriate to assure the fullest possible disclosure of relevant and material facts.
(f) During the course of the hearing, the Administrative Judge shall rule on all objections raised.
(g) In the event it appears during the course of the hearing that classified matter may be disclosed, it shall be the duty of the Administrative Judge to assure that disclosure is not made to persons who are not authorized to receive it, and take other appropriate measures.
(h) Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but the Federal Rules of Evidence may be used as a guide for procedures and principles designed to assure production of the most probative evidence available. The Administrative Judge shall admit into evidence any matters, either oral or written, which are material, relevant, and competent in determining issues involved, including the testimony of responsible persons concerning the integrity of the individual. In making such determinations, the utmost latitude shall be permitted with respect to relevancy, materiality, and competency. The Administrative Judge may also exclude evidence which is incompetent, immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. Every reasonable effort shall be made to obtain the best evidence available. Subject to §§ 710.26(l), 710.26(m), 710.26(n) and 710.26(o), hearsay evidence may, at the discretion of the Administrative Judge and for good cause show, be admitted without strict adherence to technical rules of admissibility and shall be accorded such weight as the Administrative Judge deems appropriate.
(i) Testimony of the individual and witnesses shall be given under oath or affirmation. Attention of the individual and each witness shall be directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 18 U.S.C. 1621.
(j) The Administrative Judge shall endeavor to obtain all the facts that are reasonably available in order to arrive at a decision. If, prior to or during the proceedings, in the opinion of the Administrative Judge, the derogatory information in the notification letter is not sufficient to address all matters into which inquiry should be directed, the Administrative Judge may recommend to the Manager concerned that, in order to give more adequate notice to the individual, the notification letter should be amended. Any amendment shall be made with the concurrence of the local Office of Chief Counsel or the Office of the General Counsel in Headquarters cases. If, in the opinion of the Administrative Judge, the circumstances of such amendment may involve undue hardship to the individual because of limited time to respond to the new derogatory information in the notification letter, an appropriate adjournment shall be granted upon the request of the individual.
(k) A written or oral statement of a person relating to the characterization in the notification letter of any organization or person other than the individual may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge without affording the individual an opportunity to cross-examine the person making the statement on matters relating to the characterization of such organization or person, provided the individual is given notice that such a statement has been received and may be considered by the Administrative Judge, and is informed of the contents of the statement, provided such notice is not prohibited by paragraph (g) of this section.
(l) Any oral or written statement adverse to the individual relating to a controverted issue may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge without affording an opportunity for cross-examination in either of the following circumstances:
(1) The head of the agency supplying the statement certifies that the person who furnished the information is a confidential informant who has been engaged in obtaining intelligence information for the Government and that disclosure of the informant's identity would be substantially harmful to the national interest;
(2) The Secretary or the Secretary's special designee for that particular
purpose has preliminarily determined, after considering information furnished by the investigative agency as to the reliability of the person and the accuracy of the statement concerned, that:
(i) The statement concerned appears to be reliable and material; and
(ii) Failure of the Administrative Judge to receive and consider such statement would, in view of the access sought to classified matter or special nuclear material, be substantially harmful to the national security and that the person who furnished the information cannot appear to testify:
(A) Due to death, severe illness, or similar cause, in which case the identity of the person and the information to be considered shall be made available to the individual, or
(B) Due to some other specified cause determined by the Secretary to be good and sufficient.
(m) Whenever procedures under paragraph (l) of this section are used:
(1) The individual shall be given a summary or description of the information which shall be as comprehensive and detailed as the national interest permits, and
(2) Appropriate consideration shall be accorded to the fact that the individual did not have an opportunity to cross-examine such person(s).
(n) Records compiled in the regular course of business, or other evidence other than investigative reports obtained by DOE, may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge subject to rebuttal without authenticating witnesses, provided that such information has been furnished to DOE by an investigative agency pursuant to its responsibilities in connection with assisting the Secretary to safeguard classified matter or special nuclear material.
(o) Records compiled in the regular course of business, or other evidence other than investigative reports, relating to a controverted issue which, because they are classified, may not be inspected by the individual, may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge, provided that:
(1) The Secretary or the Secretary's special designee for that particular purpose has made a preliminary determination that such evidence appears to be material;
(2) The Secretary or the Secretary's special designee for that particular purpose has made a determination that failure to receive and consider such evidence would, in view of the access sought to classified matter or special nuclear material, be substantially harmful to the national security; and
(3) To the extent that national security permits, a summary or description of such evidence is made available to the individual. In every such case, information as to the authenticity and accuracy of such evidence furnished by the investigative agency shall be considered.
(p) The Administrative Judge may request the Local Director of Security to arrange for additional investigation on any points which are material to the deliberations of the Administrative Judge and which the Administrative Judge believes need further investigation or clarification. In this event, the Administrative Judge shall set forth in writing those issues upon which more evidence is requested, identifying where possible persons or sources from which the evidence should be sought. The Local Director of Security shall make every effort through appropriate sources to obtain additional information upon the matters indicated by the Administrative Judge.
(q) A written transcript of the entire hearing shall be made and, except for portions containing classified matter, a copy of such transcript shall be furnished to the individual without cost.
(r) Whenever information is made a part of the record under the exceptions authorized by paragraphs (l) or (o) of this section, the record shall contain certificates evidencing that the determinations required therein have been made.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59597, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.27
Administrative Judge's decision.
(a) The Administrative Judge shall carefully consider the entire record of the proceeding and shall render a decision, within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the hearing transcript, as to
whether granting or restoring the individual's access authorization would not endanger the common defense and security and would be clearly consistent with the national interest. In resolving a question concerning the eligibility of an individual for access authorization under these procedures, the Administrative Judge shall consider the factors stated in § 710.7(c) to determine whether the findings will be favorable or unfavorable.
(b) In reaching the findings, the Administrative Judge shall consider the demeanor of the witnesses who have testified at the hearing, the probability or likelihood of the truth of their testimony, their credibility, and the authenticity and accuracy of documentary evidence, or lack of evidence on any material points in issue. If the individual is, or may be, prejudiced by the non-disclosure to the individual of undisclosed information or by lack of opportunity to cross-examine confidential informants, the Administrative Judge shall take that fact into consideration. The possible adverse impact of the loss of the individual's access authorization upon the DOE program in which the individual works shall not be considered by the Administrative Judge.
(c) The Administrative Judge shall make specific findings based upon the record as to the validity of each instance of derogatory information contained in the notification letter and the significance which the Administrative Judge attaches to it. These findings shall be supported fully by a statement of reasons which constitute the basis for such findings.
(d) The Administrative Judge's decision shall be based on the Administrative Judge's findings of fact. If, after considering all of the factors set forth in § 710.7(c) in light of the Adjudicative Guidelines, the Administrative Judge is of the opinion that it will not endanger the common defense and security and will be clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or reinstate access authorization for the individual, the Administrative Judge shall render a favorable decision; otherwise, the Administrative Judge shall render an unfavorable decision. Within 15 calendar days of the Administrative Judge's written decision, the Administrative Judge shall provide copies of the decision and the administrative record to the Manager and the Director.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 59597, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.28
Action on the Administrative Judge's decision.
(a) Within 10 calendar days of receipt of the decision and the administrative record, unless an extension of time is granted by the Director, the Manager shall:
(1) Notify the individual in writing of the Administrative Judge's decision;
(2) Advise the individual in writing of the appeal procedures available to the individual in paragraph (b) of this section if the decision is unfavorable to the individual;
(3) Advise the individual in writing of the appeal procedures available to the Manager and the Director in paragraph (c) of this section if the decision is favorable to the individual; and
(4) Provide the individual and/or their counsel or other representative a copy of the Administrative Judge's decision and the administrative record.
(b) If the Administrative Judge's decision is unfavorable to the individual:
(1) The individual may file with the Director a written request for further review of the decision by the Appeal Panel along with a statement required by paragraph (e) of this section within 30 calendar days of the individual's receipt of the Manager's notice;
(2) The Director may, for good cause shown, extend the time for filing a request for further review of the decision by the Appeal Panel at the written request of the individual, provided the request for an extension of time is filed by the individual within 30 calendar days of receipt of the Manager's notice;
(3) The Administrative Judge's decision shall be final and not subject to review or appeal if the individual does not:
(i) File a written request for a review of the decision by the Appeal Panel or for an extension of time to file a written request for review of the decision by the Appeal Panel in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, or
(ii) File a written request for review of the decision by the Appeal Panel after having been granted an extension of time to do so.
(c) If the Administrative Judge's decision is favorable to the individual:
(1) The Manager, with the concurrence of the Director, shall grant or reinstate the individual's access authorization within 30 calendar days of the Administrative Judge's decision becoming final, or
(2) The Manager or the Director may file a written request with the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security for review of the decision by the Appeal Panel, along with statement required by paragraph (e) of this section, within 30 calendar days of the individual's receipt of the Manager's notice.
(3) The Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security may, for good cause shown, extend the time for filing a request for review of the decision by the Appeal Panel at the request of the Manager or Director, provided the request for an extension of time is filed by the Manager or Director within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the Manager's notice;
(4) The Administrative Judge's decision shall constitute final action, and not be subject to review or appeal, if the Manager or Director does not:
(i) File a written request for review of the decision by the Appeal Panel or for an extension of time to file a written request for review of the decision by the Appeal Panel in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section, or
(ii) File a written request for a review of the decision by the Appeal Panel after having been granted an extension of time to do so.
(d) A copy of any request for review of the individual's case by the Appeal Panel filed by the Manager or the Director shall be provided to the individual by the Manager.
(e) The party filing a request for review by the Appeal Panel shall include with the request a statement identifying the issues upon which the appeal is based. A copy of the request and statement shall be served on the other party, who may file a response with the Appeal Panel within 20 calendar days of receipt of the statement.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023; 89 FR 59597, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.29
Final appeal process.
(a) The Appeal Panel shall be convened by the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security to review and render a final decision in access authorization eligibility cases referred by the individual, the Manager, or the Director in accordance with §§ 710.22 or 710.28.
(b) The Appeal Panel shall consist of three members, each of whom shall be a DOE Headquarters employee, a United States citizen, and hold a DOE Q access authorization. The Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security shall serve as a permanent member of the Appeal Panel and as the Appeal Panel Chair. The second member of the Appeal Panel shall be a DOE attorney designated by the General Counsel. The head of the DOE Headquarters element which has cognizance over the individual whose access authorization eligibility is being considered may designate an employee to act as the third member on the Appeal Panel; otherwise, the third member shall be designated by the Chair. Only one member of the Appeal Panel shall be from the security field.
(c) In filing a written request for a review by the Appeal Panel in accordance with §§ 710.22 and 710.28, the individual, or their counsel or other representative, shall identify the issues upon which the appeal is based. The written request, and any response, shall be made a part of the administrative record. The Director shall provide staff support to the Appeal Panel as requested by the Chair.
(d) Within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the request for review of a case by the Appeal Panel, the Chair shall arrange for the Appeal Panel members to convene and review the administrative record or provide a copy of the administrative record to the Appeal Panel members for their independent review.
(e) The Appeal Panel shall consider only that evidence and information in the administrative record at the time of the Manager's or the Administrative Judge's initial decision.
(f) Within 45 calendar days of receipt of the administrative record, the Appeal Panel shall render a final decision in the case. If a majority of the Appeal Panel members determine that it will not endanger the common defense and security and will be clearly consistent with the national interest, the Chair shall grant or reinstate the individual's access authorization; otherwise, the Chair shall deny or revoke the individual's access authorization. The Appeal Panel's written decision shall be made a part of the administrative record and is not subject to further review or appeal.
(g) The Chair, through the Director, shall inform the individual in writing, as well as the individual's counsel or other representative, of the Appeal Panel's final decision. A copy of the correspondence shall also be provided to the other panel members and the Manager.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023; 89 FR 59597, July 23, 2024]
§ 710.30
Action by the Secretary.
(a) Whenever an individual has not been afforded an opportunity to cross-examine witnesses who have furnished information adverse to the individual under the provisions of §§ 710.26(l) or (o), the Secretary may issue a final decision to deny or revoke access authorization for the individual after personally reviewing the administrative record and any additional material provided by the Chair. The Secretary's authority may, in accordance with applicable provisions of Executive Order 12968, be delegated to the Deputy Secretary where the effected individual is a Federal employee. The Secretary's authority, in accordance with applicable provisions of Executive Order 10865, may not be delegated where the effected individual is a contractor employee. This authority may be exercised only when the Secretary determines that the circumstances described in § 710.26(l) or (o) are present, and such determination shall be final and not subject to review or appeal.
(b) Whenever the Secretary issues a final decision as to an individual's access authorization eligibility, the individual and other concerned parties shall be notified in writing by the Chair of that decision and of the Secretary's findings with respect to each instance of derogatory information contained in the notification letter and each substantial issue identified in the statement in support of the request for review to the extent allowed by the national security.
(c) Nothing contained in these procedures shall be deemed to limit or affect the responsibility and powers of the Secretary to issue subpoenas or to deny or revoke access to classified matter or special nuclear material.
§ 710.31
Reconsideration of access eligibility.
(a) If, pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 710.20 through 710.30, the Manager, Administrative Judge, Appeal Panel, or the Secretary has made a decision granting or reinstating an individual's access authorization, eligibility shall be reconsidered as a new administrative review under the procedures set forth in this part when previously unconsidered derogatory information is identified, or the individual violates a commitment upon which the DOE previously relied to favorably resolve an issue of access authorization eligibility.
(b) If, pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 710.20 through 710.31, the Manager, Administrative Judge, Appeal Panel, or the Secretary has made a decision denying or revoking the individual's access authorization, eligibility may be reconsidered only when the individual so requests in writing, when there is a bona fide offer of employment requiring access authorization, and when there is either material and relevant new evidence which the individual and the individual's representatives were without fault in failing to present earlier, or convincing evidence of rehabilitation or reformation.
(1) A request for reconsideration shall be accepted when a minimum of one year has elapsed since the date of
the Manager's, Administrative Judge's, Appeal Panel's or Secretary's final decision, or of a previous denial of reconsideration. Requests must be submitted in writing to the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, and must include an affidavit setting forth in detail the new evidence or evidence of rehabilitation or reformation.
(2) If the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security approves the request for reconsideration of an individual's access authorization eligibility, he/she shall so notify the individual, and shall direct the Manager to take appropriate actions to determine whether the individual is eligible for access authorization.
(3) If the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security denies the request for reconsideration of an individual's access authorization eligibility, he/she shall so notify the individual in writing. Such a denial is final and not subject to review or appeal.
(4) If, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Manager determines the individual is eligible for access authorization, the Manager shall grant access authorization.
(5) If, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Manager determines the individual remains ineligible for access authorization, the Manager shall so notify the Director in writing. If the Director concurs, the Director shall notify the individual in writing. This decision is final and not subject to review or appeal. If the Director does not concur, the Director shall confer with the Manager on further actions.
(6) Determinations as to eligibility for access authorization pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) or (5) of this section may be based solely upon the mitigation of derogatory information which was relied upon in a final decision to deny or to revoke access authorization. If, pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, previously unconsidered derogatory information is identified, a determination as to eligibility for access authorization must be subject to a new Administrative Review proceeding.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023; 89 FR 59597, July 23, 2024]

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
§ 710.32
Terminations.
(a) If the individual is no longer an applicant for access authorization or no longer requires access authorization, the procedures of this part shall be terminated without a final decision as to the individual's access authorization eligibility, unless a final decision has been rendered prior to the DOE being notified of the change in the individual's pending access authorization status. Where the procedures of this part have been terminated pursuant to this paragraph after an unfavorable initial agency decision as to the individual's access authorization eligibility has been rendered, any subsequent request for access authorization for the individual will be processed as a request for a review of the initial agency decision by the Appeal Panel and a final agency decision will be rendered pursuant to § 710.29, unless a minimum of one year has elapsed since the date of the initial agency decision.
(b) With regard to applicants (individuals for whom DOE has not yet approved access authorization), DOE may administratively terminate processing an application for access authorization under the following circumstances:
(1) If the applicant is currently the subject of criminal proceedings for a felony offense or an offense that is punishable by a term of imprisonment of one year or longer, or is awaiting or serving a form of probation, suspended or deferred sentencing, or parole. Once all judicial proceedings on the criminal charges have been finally resolved, and the term (if any) of imprisonment, probation, or parole has been completed, DOE processing of a request for access authorization shall resume upon receipt by DOE of a written request therefor, provided that the individual has a bona fide offer of employment requiring access authorization.
(2) If sufficient information about the individual's background cannot be obtained to meet the investigative scope
and extent requirements for the access authorization requested.
(c) If an individual believes that the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section have been inappropriately applied, a written appeal may be filed with the Director within 30 calendar days of the date the individual was notified of the action. The Director shall act on the written appeal as described in § 710.6(c).
§ 710.33
Time frames.
Statements of time established for processing aspects of a case under this part are the agency's desired time frames in implementing the procedures set forth in this part. However, failure to meet the time frames shall have no impact upon the final disposition of an access authorization by a Manager, Administrative Judge, the Appeal Panel, or the Secretary, and shall confer no procedural or substantive rights upon an individual whose access authorization eligibility is being considered.
§ 710.34
Acting officials.
Except for the Secretary, the responsibilities and authorities conferred in this part may be exercised by persons who have been designated in writing as acting for, or in the temporary capacity of, the following DOE positions: The Local Director of Security; the Manager; the Director, or the General Counsel. The responsibilities and authorities of the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security may be exercised by persons in senior security-related positions within the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security who have been designated in writing as acting for, or in the temporary capacity of, the Deputy Director for Security, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, with the approval of the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
[81 FR 71335, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
Pt. 712

# PART 712—HUMAN RELIABILITY PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Establishment of and Procedures for the Human Reliability Program

# General Provisions
Sec.
712.1
Purpose.
712.2
Applicability.
712.3
Definitions.
712.4
Exemptions.

# Procedures
712.10
Designation of HRP positions.
712.11
General requirements for HRP certification.
712.12
HRP implementation.
712.13
Supervisory review.
712.14
Medical assessment.
712.15
Management evaluation.
712.16
Security review.
712.17
Instructional requirements.
712.18
Transferring HRP certification.
712.19
Actions related to removal, revocation and/or reinstatement.
712.20
Request for reconsideration or certification review hearing.
712.21
Appointment of DOE counsel.
712.22
Office of Hearings and Appeals.
712.23
Administrative Judge's decision.
712.24
Final decision by DOE Under Secretary.
712.25
Cooperation by the individual.

# Subpart B—Medical Standards
712.30
Applicability.
712.31
Purpose.
712.32
Designated Physician.
712.33
Designated Psychologist.
712.34
Site Occupational Medical Director.
712.35
Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
712.36
Medical assessment process.
712.37
Evaluation for hallucinogen use.
712.38
Maintenance of medical records.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2165; 42 U.S.C. 2201; 42 U.S.C. 5814-5815; 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.;
E.O. 10450, 3 CFR 1949-1953 Comp., p. 936, as amended; E.O. 10865, 3 CFR 1959-1963 Comp., p. 398, as amended; 3 CFR Chap. IV.

# Source:
69 FR 3223, Jan. 23, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 712 appear at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023.

# Subpart A—Establishment of and Procedures for the Human Reliability Program

# Source:
83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 712.1
Purpose.
This part establishes the policies and procedures for a Human Reliability Program (HRP) in the Department of Energy (DOE), including the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). The HRP is a security and safety reliability program designed to ensure that individuals who occupy positions affording access to certain materials, nuclear explosive devices, facilities, and programs meet the highest standards of reliability and physical and mental suitability. This objective is accomplished under this part through a system of continuous evaluation that identifies individuals whose judgment and reliability may be impaired by physical or mental/personality disorders, alcohol abuse, use of illegal drugs or the abuse of legal drugs or other substances, or any other condition or circumstance that may be of a security or safety concern.
§ 712.2
Applicability.
The HRP applies to all applicants for, or current employees of DOE or NNSA or a DOE or NNSA contractor or subcontractor in a position defined or designated under § 712.10 of this subpart as an HRP position.
§ 712.3
Definitions.
The following definitions are used in this part:
Access
means:
(1) A situation that may provide an individual proximity to or control over Category I special nuclear material (SNM); or
(2) The proximity to a nuclear explosive and/or Category I SNM that allows the opportunity to divert, steal, tamper with, and/or damage the nuclear explosive or material in spite of any controls that have been established to prevent such unauthorized actions.
Alcohol
means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohol.
Alcohol abuse
means consumption of any beverage, mixture, or preparation, including any medication containing alcohol that results in impaired social or occupational functioning.
Alcohol concentration
means the alcohol in a volume of breath expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as indicated by a breath test.
Alcohol use disorder
means a maladaptive pattern in which a person's intake of alcohol is great enough to damage or adversely affect physical or mental health or personal, social, or occupational function; or when alcohol has become a prerequisite to normal function.
Case chronology
means a written recitation of all actions that support a recommendation to revoke an individual's HRP certification under § 712.19.
Certification
means the formal action the HRP certifying official takes that permits an individual to perform HRP duties after it is determined that the individual meets the requirements for certification under this part.
Contractor
means contractors and subcontractors at all tiers and any industrial, educational, commercial, or other entity, grantee, or licensee, including an employee that has executed an agreement with the Federal government for the purpose of performing under a contract, license, or other arrangement.
Designated Physician
means a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy who has been nominated by the Site Occupational Medical Director (SOMD) and approved by the Manager or designee, with the concurrence of the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee to provide professional expertise in occupational medicine for the HRP.
Designated Psychologist
means a licensed Ph.D., or Psy.D., in clinical psychology who has been nominated by the SOMD and approved by the Manager or designee, with the concurrence of the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee to provide professional expertise in the area of psychological assessment for the HRP.
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
means the current version of the American Psychiatric Association's manual containing definitions of psychiatric terms and diagnostic criteria of mental disorders.
Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security
means the DOE individual with responsibility for policy and quality assurance for DOE occupational medical programs.
Drug abuse
means use of an illegal drug or misuse of legal drugs.
Evaluative report
means the document that sets forth the bases supporting the revocation of an individual's certification.
Evidential-grade breath alcohol device
means a device that conforms to the model standards for an evidential breath-testing device as listed on the Conforming Products List of Evidential Breath Measurement Devices published by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).
Flashback
means an involuntary, spontaneous recurrence of some aspect of a hallucinatory experience or perceptual distortion that occurs long after taking the hallucinogen that produced the original effect; also referred to as hallucinogen persisting perception disorder.
Hallucinogen
means a drug or substance that produces hallucinations, distortions in perception of sights and sounds, and disturbances in emotion, judgment, and memory.
HRP candidate
means an individual being considered for assignment to an HRP position.
HRP-certified individual
means an individual who has successfully completed the HRP requirements.
HRP certifying official
means the Manager or the Manager's designee who certifies, recertifies, temporarily removes, reviews the circumstances of an individual's removal from an HRP position, and directs reinstatement.
HRP management official
means an individual designated by the DOE or a DOE contractor, as appropriate, who has programmatic responsibility for HRP positions.
Illegal drug
means a controlled substance, as specified in Schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 811 and 812; the term does not apply to the use of a controlled substance in accordance with the terms of a valid prescription, or other uses authorized by Federal law.
Impaired
or
impairment
means a decrease in functional capacity of a person that is caused by a physical, mental, emotional, substance abuse, or behavioral disorder.
Incident
means an unplanned, undesired event that interrupts the completion of an activity and that may include property damage or injury.
Job task analysis
means the formal process of defining the requirements of a position and identifying the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to effectively perform the duties of the position.
Manager
means the senior Federal line manager at a departmental site or Federal office with HRP-designated positions.
Material access area
means a type of Security Area that is authorized to contain a Category I quantity of special nuclear material and that has specifically defined physical barriers, is located within a Protected Area, and is subject to specific access controls.
Medical assessment
means an evaluation of an HRP candidate and HRP-certified individual's present health status and health risk factors by means of:
(1) Medical history review;
(2) Job task analysis;
(3) Physical examination;
(4) Appropriate laboratory tests and measurements; and
(5) Appropriate psychological and psychiatric evaluations.
Nuclear explosive
means an assembly of fissionable and/or fusionable materials and main charge high explosive parts or propellants that is capable of producing a nuclear detonation.
Nuclear explosive duties
means work assignments that allow custody of a nuclear explosive or access to a nuclear explosive device or area.
Occurrence
means any event or incident that is a deviation from the planned or expected behavior or course of events in connection with any DOE or DOE-controlled operation if the deviation has environmental, public health and safety, or national security protection significance, including (but not limited to) incidents involving:
(1) Injury or fatality to any person involving actions of a DOE employee or contractor employee;
(2) An explosion, fire, spread of radioactive material, personal injury or death, or damage to property that involves nuclear explosives under DOE jurisdiction;
(3) Accidental release of pollutants that results from, or could result in, a significant effect on the public or environment; or
(4) Accidental release of radioactive material above regulatory limits.
Psychological assessment or test
means a scientifically validated instrument designed to detect psychiatric, personality, and behavioral tendencies that would indicate problems with reliability and judgment.
Random alcohol testing
means the unscheduled, unannounced alcohol testing of randomly selected employees by a process designed to ensure that selections are made in a nondiscriminatory manner.
Random drug testing
means the unscheduled, unannounced drug testing of randomly selected employees by a process designed to ensure that selections are made in a nondiscriminatory manner.
Reasonable suspicion
means a suspicion based on an articulable belief that an individual uses illegal drugs or is under the influence of alcohol, drawn from reasonable inferences from particular facts, as detailed further in part 707 of this title.
Recertification
means the action the HRP certifying official takes annually, not to exceed 12 months, that permits an employee to remain in the HRP and perform HRP duties.
Reinstatement
means the action taken after it has been determined that an employee who has been temporarily removed from the HRP meets the certification requirements of this part and can be returned to HRP duties, contingent on the individual completing any and all components of the annual recertification process under § 712.11 and any other specific requirements that must be completed in order to return to full HRP duties.
Reliability
means an individual's ability to adhere to security and safety rules and regulations.
Restoration
means the actions necessary to restore an individual's HRP duties after a final decision has been made by the cognizant Under Secretary or his/her designee to overturn the revocation decision. The restoration of HRP duties is contingent on the individual completing any and all components of the annual recertification process under § 712.11 and any other specific requirements that must be completed in order to return to full HRP duties.
Safety concern
means any condition, practice, or violation that causes a reasonable probability of physical harm, property loss, and/or environmental impact.
Security concern
means the presence of information regarding an individual that raises a question as to whether HRP certification and recertification would endanger the common defense and security and would be clearly consistent with the national interest.
Semi-structured interview
means an interview by a Designated Psychologist, or a psychologist under his or her supervision, who has the latitude to vary the focus and content of the questions depending on the interviewee's responses.
Site Occupational Medical Director (SOMD)
means the physician responsible for the overall direction and operation of the occupational medical program at a particular site or program.
Supervisor
means the individual who has oversight and organizational responsibility for a person holding an HRP position, and whose duties include evaluating the behavior and performance of the HRP-certified individual.
Transfer
means an HRP-certified individual moving from one site to another site.
Unacceptable damage
means an incident that could result in a nuclear detonation; high-explosive detonation or deflagration from a nuclear explosive; the diversion, misuse, or removal of Category I special nuclear material; or an interruption of nuclear explosive operations with a significant impact on national security.
Unsafe practice
means either a human action departing from prescribed hazard controls or job procedures or practices, or an action causing a person unnecessary exposure to a hazard.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.4
Exemptions.
The Department is authorized to grant exemptions from the requirements in § 712.11 of this part as it determines are authorized by law. Exemptions from requirements in this part are allowed only on a case-by-case basis. All requests for an exemption should be submitted in writing from the Manager to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security for coordination, and approval by the cognizant Under Secretary. A request for an exemption shall be approved only if the cognizant Under Secretary determines that the exemption will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security, and is otherwise consistent with the national interest. The procedures in this section shall not be used to establish stricter recertification standards than those required by § 712.11.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]

# Procedures
§ 712.10
Designation of HRP positions.
(a) HRP certification is required for each individual assigned to, or applying for, a position that:
(1) Affords access to Category I SNM or has responsibility for transportation or protection of Category I quantities of SNM;
(2) Involves nuclear explosive duties or has responsibility for working with, protecting, or transporting nuclear explosives, nuclear devices, or selected components;
(3) Affords access to information concerning vulnerabilities in protective systems when transporting nuclear explosives, nuclear devices, selected components, or Category I quantities of SNM; or
(4) Is not included in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section but affords the potential to significantly impact national security or cause unacceptable damage and is approved pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The Manager or the HRP management official may nominate positions for the HRP that are not specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section or that have not previously been designated HRP positions. All such nominations must be submitted to and approved by either the NNSA Administrator, his or her designee, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or the appropriate Lead Program Secretarial Officer, or his or her designee.
(c) Before nominating a position for designation as an HRP position, the Manager or the HRP management official must analyze the risks the position poses for the particular operational program. If the analysis shows that more restrictive physical, administrative, or other controls could be implemented that would prevent the position from being designated an HRP position, those controls will be implemented, if practicable.
(d) Nothing in this part prohibits contractors from establishing stricter employment standards for individuals who are nominated to DOE for certification or recertification in the HRP.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.11
General requirements for HRP certification.
(a) The following requirements apply to each individual applying for or in an HRP position:
(1) A DOE “Q” access authorization;
(2) Signed releases, acknowledgments, and waivers to participate in the HRP on forms provided by DOE;
(3) Completion of initial and annual HRP instruction as provided in § 712.17;
(4) Successful completion of an initial and annual supervisory review, medical assessment, management evaluation, and a DOE personnel security review;
(5) No use of any hallucinogen in the preceding 5 years and no experience of flashback resulting from the use of any hallucinogen more than 5 years before applying for certification or recertification;
(6) An initial drug test and random drug tests for the use of illegal drugs at least once each 12 months;
(7) An initial alcohol test and random alcohol tests at least once each 12 months; and
(8) For designated positions, identified pursuant to 10 CFR part 709, successful completion of a counterintelligence evaluation, which may include a counterintelligence-scope polygraph examination in accordance with DOE's Polygraph Examination Regulation, 10 CFR part 709, and any subsequent revisions to that regulation.
(b) Each HRP candidate must be certified in the HRP before being assigned to HRP duties and must be recertified annually, not to exceed 12 months between recertifications.
(c) Individuals in newly identified HRP positions must immediately sign the releases, acknowledgments, and waivers to participate in the HRP and complete initial instruction on the importance of security, safety, reliability, and suitability. If these requirements are not met, the individual must be removed from the HRP position. All remaining HRP requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in an expedited manner.
(d) Alcohol consumption is prohibited within an eight-hour period preceding scheduled work for individuals performing nuclear explosive duties and for individuals in specific positions designated by either the Manager, the NNSA Administrator, his or her designee, or the appropriate Lead Program Secretarial Officer, or his or her designee.
(e) Individuals reporting for unscheduled nuclear explosive duties and those specific positions designated by either the Manager, the NNSA Administrator or his or her designee, or the appropriate Lead Program Secretarial Officer, or his or her designee, will be asked prior to performing any type of work if they have consumed alcohol within the preceding eight-hour period. If they answer “no,” they may perform their assigned duties but still may be tested.
(f) Any doubt as to an HRP candidate's or HRP certified individual's eligibility for certification shall be resolved against the candidate or individual in favor of national security and/or safety.
§ 712.12
HRP implementation.
(a) The implementation of the HRP is the responsibility of the appropriate Manager or his or her designee.
(b) The HRP Management Official must prepare an HRP implementation plan and submit it to the applicable Manager for review and approval. The implementation plan must:
(1) Be reviewed and updated every 2 years;
(2) Include the four annual components of the HRP process: supervisory review, medical assessment, management evaluation (which includes random drug and alcohol testing), and a DOE personnel security determination; and
(3) Include the HRP instruction and education component described in § 712.17 of this part.
(c) The Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, or his/her designee, must:
(1) Provide advice and assistance to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security regarding policies, standards, and guidance for all nuclear explosive duty requirements; and
(2) Be responsible for implementation of all nuclear explosive duty safety requirements.
(d) The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, or designee, is responsible for HRP policy and must:
(1) Ensure consistency of the HRP throughout the DOE and NNSA;
(2) Review and comment on all HRP implementation plans to ensure consistency with policy; and
(3) Provide policies and guidance, including instructional materials, to NNSA and non-NNSA field elements concerning the HRP, as appropriate.
(e) The Manager must:
(1) Review and approve the HRP implementation plan for sites/facilities under their cognizance and forward the plan to the Director, Office of Corporate Security Strategy, or designee; and
(2) Ensure that the HRP is implemented at the sites/facilities under their cognizance.
(f) The HRP certifying official must:
(1) Approve placement, certification, reinstatement, and recertification of individuals into HRP positions; for unresolved temporary removals, follow the process in § 712.19(f);
(2) Ensure that instructional requirements are implemented;
(3) Immediately notify (for the purpose of limiting access) the appropriate HRP management official of a personnel security action that results in the suspension of access authorization; and
(4) Ensure that the supervisory review, medical assessment, and management evaluation, including drug and alcohol testing, are conducted on an annual basis (not to exceed 12 months).
(g) Individuals assigned to HRP duties must:
(1) Execute HRP releases, acknowledgments, and waivers to facilitate the collection and dissemination of information, the performance of drug and alcohol testing, and medical examinations;
(2) Notify the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD immediately of a physical or mental condition requiring medication or treatment;
(3) Report any observed or reported behavior or condition of another HRP-certified individual that could indicate a reliability concern, including those behaviors and conditions listed in § 712.13(c), to a supervisor, the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, the SOMD, or the HRP management official; and
(4) Report to a supervisor, the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, the SOMD, or the HRP management official, any behavior or condition, including those listed in § 712.13(c), that may affect his or her ability to perform HRP duties.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.13
Supervisory review.
(a) The supervisor must ensure that each HRP candidate and each individual occupying an HRP position but not yet HRP certified executes the appropriate HRP releases, acknowledgments, and waivers. If these documents are not executed:
(1) The request for HRP certification may not be further processed until these requirements are completed; and
(2) The individual is immediately removed from the position.
(b) Each supervisor of HRP-certified personnel must conduct an annual review of each HRP-certified individual during which the supervisor must evaluate information, based on his or her personal knowledge that is relevant to the individual's suitability to perform HRP tasks in a reliable and safe manner.
(c) The supervisor must report any concerns resulting from his or her review to the appropriate HRP management official. Types of behavior and conditions that would indicate a concern include, but are not limited to:
(1) Psychological or physical disorders that impair performance of assigned duties;
(2) Conduct that warrants referral for a criminal investigation or results in arrest or conviction;
(3) Indications of deceitful or delinquent behavior;
(4) Attempted or threatened destruction of property or life;
(5) Suicidal tendencies or attempted suicide;
(6) Use of illegal drugs or the abuse of legal drugs or other substances;
(7) Alcohol use disorders;
(8) Recurring financial irresponsibility;
(9) Irresponsibility in performing assigned duties;
(10) Inability to deal with stress, or the appearance of being under unusual stress;
(11) Failure to comply with work directives, hostility or aggression toward fellow workers or authority, uncontrolled anger, violation of safety or security procedures, or repeated absenteeism;
(12) Significant behavioral changes, moodiness, depression, or other evidence of loss of emotional control; and
(13) Any unusual conduct or being subject to any circumstances which tend to show that the individual is not reliable.
(d) A supervisor must immediately remove an individual from HRP duties:
(1) When the supervisor has a reasonable belief that the individual is not reliable, based on either a safety or security concern based on one or more of the types of behaviors and conditions identified in § 712.13(c);
(2) When the individual does not obtain HRP recertification; or
(3) When requested to do so by the HRP certifying official and/or HRP management official.
(e) The supervisor must contact the appropriate personnel office for guidance as to any actions that should occur as a result of the immediate removal.
(f) Immediate removal: If the supervisor immediately removes an HRP-certified individual for any reason specified in this part, he or she must, at a minimum:
(1) Require the individual to stop performing HRP duties;
(2) Take action to ensure the individual is denied both escorted and unescorted access to the material access areas; and
(3) Notify, within 24 hours, the HRP management official of the immediate removal. The HRP management official shall take actions consistent with § 712.19.
§ 712.14
Medical assessment.
(a)
Purpose.
The HRP medical assessment is performed to evaluate whether an HRP candidate or an HRP-certified individual:
(1) Represents a security concern; or
(2) Has a condition that may prevent the individual from performing HRP duties in a reliable and safe manner.
(b)
When performed.
(1) The medical assessment is performed initially on HRP candidates and individuals occupying HRP positions who have not yet received HRP certification. The medical assessment is performed annually for HRP-certified individuals, or more often as required by the SOMD.
(2) The Designated Physician and other examiners working under the direction of the Designated Physician also will conduct an evaluation:
(i) If an HRP-certified individual requests an evaluation (
i.e.,
self-referral); or
(ii) If an HRP-certified individual is referred by management for an evaluation.
(c)
Process.
The Designated Physician, under the supervision of the SOMD, is responsible for the medical assessment of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals. In performing this responsibility, the Designated Physician or the SOMD must integrate the medical evaluations, available testing results, psychological evaluations, any psychiatric evaluations, a review of current legal drug use, and any other relevant information. This information is used to determine if a reliability, safety, or security concern exists and if the individual is medically qualified for his or her assigned duties.
(d)
Evaluation.
The Designated Physician, with the assistance of the Designated Psychologist, must determine the existence or nature of any of the following:
(1) Physical or medical disabilities, such as a lack of visual acuity, defective color vision, impaired hearing, musculoskeletal deformities, and neuromuscular impairment;
(2) Mental/personality disorders or behavioral problems, including alcohol and other substance use disorders, as described in the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders;
(3) Use of illegal drugs or the abuse of legal drugs or other substances, as identified by self-reporting or by medical or psychological evaluation or testing;
(4) Threat of suicide, homicide, or physical harm; or
(5) Medical conditions such as cardiovascular disease, endocrine disease, cerebrovascular or other neurologic disease, or the use of drugs for the treatment of conditions that may adversely affect the judgment or ability of an individual to perform assigned duties in a reliable and safe manner.
(e)
Job task analysis.
Before the initial or annual medical assessment and psychological evaluation, employers must provide, to both the Designated Physician and Designated Psychologist, a job task analysis for each HRP candidate or HRP-certified individual. Medical assessments and psychological evaluations may not be performed if a
job task analysis has not been provided.
(f)
Psychological evaluations.
Psychological evaluations must be conducted:
(1) For initial HRP certification. This psychological evaluation consists of a psychological assessment (test), approved by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee, and a semi-structured interview.
(2) For recertification: This psychological evaluation consists of a semi-structured interview. A psychological assessment (test) may also be conducted as warranted.
(3) Every third year: The medical assessment for recertification must include a psychological assessment (test) approved by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee. This requirement can be implemented over a 3-year period for individuals who are currently in an HRP position.
(4) When additional psychological or psychiatric evaluations are required by the SOMD to resolve any concerns.
(g)
Return to work after sick leave.
HRP-certified individuals who have been on sick leave for five or more consecutive days, or an equivalent time period for those individuals on an alternative work schedule, must report in person to the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD before being allowed to return to normal duties. The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must provide a written recommendation to the appropriate HRP supervisor regarding the individual's return to work. An HRP-certified individual also may be required to report to the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD for written recommendation to return to normal duties after any period of sick leave.
(h)
Temporary removal or restrictions.
The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD may recommend temporary removal of an individual from an HRP position or restrictions on an individual's work in an HRP position if a medical condition or circumstance develops that affects the individual's ability to perform assigned job duties. The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must immediately recommend medical removal or medical restrictions in writing to the appropriate HRP management official. If the HRP management official concurs, he or she will then notify the appropriate HRP certifying official. To reinstate or remove such restrictions, the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must make written recommendation to the HRP management official. The HRP management official will then notify the appropriate HRP certifying official.
(i)
Medical evaluation after rehabilitation.
(1) Individuals who request reinstatement in the HRP following rehabilitative treatment for alcohol use disorder, use of illegal drugs, or the abuse of legal drugs or other substances, must undergo an evaluation, as prescribed by the SOMD, to ensure continued rehabilitation and adequate capability to perform their job duties.
(2) The HRP certifying official may reinstate HRP certification of an individual who successfully completes an SOMD-approved drug or alcohol rehabilitation program. Recertification is based on the SOMD's follow-up evaluation and recommendation. The individual is also subject to unannounced follow-up tests for illegal drugs or alcohol and relevant counseling for 3 years.
(j)
Medication and treatment.
HRP-certified individuals are required to immediately report to the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD any physical or mental condition requiring medication or treatment. The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD determines if temporary removal of the individual from HRP duties is recommended and follows the procedures pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.15
Management evaluation.
(a)
Evaluation components.
An evaluation by the HRP management official is required before an individual can be considered for initial certification or recertification in the HRP. This evaluation must be based on a careful review of the results of the supervisory
review, medical assessment, and drug and alcohol testing. If a safety or security concern is identified with respect to an HRP-certified individual, the HRP management official must take actions consistent with § 712.19(a).
(b)
Drug testing.
All HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals are subject to testing for the use of illegal drugs, as required by this part. Testing must be conducted in accordance with 10 CFR part 707, the workplace substance abuse program for DOE contractor employees, and DOE Order 343.1, “Federal Substantive Abuse Testing Program,” for DOE employees. The program must include an initial drug test, random drug tests at least once every 12 months from the previous test, and tests of HRP-certified individuals if they are involved in an incident, unsafe practice, occurrence, or based on reasonable suspicion. Failure to appear for unannounced testing within 2 hours of notification constitutes a refusal to submit to a test. Sites may establish a shorter time period between notification and testing but may not exceed the two-hour requirement. If an HRP-certified individual refuses to submit to a drug test or, based on a drug test, is determined to use illegal drugs, the supervisor must immediately remove the individual from HRP duties and take actions consistent with § 712.13(f).
(c)
Alcohol testing.
All HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals are subject to testing for the use of alcohol, as required by this part. The alcohol testing program must include, as a minimum, an initial alcohol test prior to performing HRP duties and random alcohol tests at least once every 12 months from the previous test, and tests of HRP-certified individuals if they are involved in an incident, unsafe practice, occurrence, or based on reasonable suspicion. The supervisor who has been informed that an HRP-certified individual's confirmatory breath alcohol test result is at or above an alcohol concentration of 0.02 percent shall send that individual home and not allow that individual to perform HRP duties for 24 hours, and take all appropriate administrative action consistent with § 712.13(f).
(1) Breath alcohol testing must be conducted by a certified breath alcohol technician and conform to the DOT procedures (49 CFR part 40, Procedures for Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs, subparts J through N) for use of an evidential-grade breath analysis device approved for 0.02/0.04 cutoff levels, which conforms to the DOT model specifications and the most recent “Conforming Products List” issued by NHTSA.
(2) An individual required to undergo DOT alcohol testing is subject to the regulations of the DOT. If such an individual's blood alcohol level exceeds DOT standards, the individual's employer may take appropriate disciplinary action.
(3) The following constitutes a refusal to submit to a test and shall be considered as a positive alcohol concentration test of 0.02 percent, which requires the individual be sent home and not allowed to perform HRP duties for 24 hours:
(i) Failure to appear for unannounced testing within 2 hours of notification (or established shorter time for the specific site);
(ii) Failure to provide an adequate volume of breath in 2 attempts without a valid medical excuse; and
(iii) Engaging in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process, including failure to cooperate with reasonable instructions provided by the testing technician.
(d)
Occurrence testing.
(1) When an HRP-certified individual is involved in, or associated with, an occurrence requiring immediate reporting to the DOE, the following procedures must be implemented:
(i) Testing for the use of illegal drugs in accordance with the provisions of the DOE policies implementing Executive Order 12564, and 10 CFR part 707 or DOE Order 3792.3, which establish workplace substance abuse programs for contractor and DOE employees, respectively.
(ii) Testing for use of alcohol in accordance with this section.
(2) Testing must be performed as soon as possible after an occurrence that requires immediate notification or reporting.
(3) The supervisor must immediately remove an HRP-certified individual
from HRP duties if the individual refuses to undergo the testing required by this subsection.
(e)
Testing for reasonable suspicion.
(1) If the behavior of an individual in an HRP position creates the basis for reasonable suspicion of the use of an illegal drug or alcohol, that individual must be tested if two or more supervisory or management officials, at least one of whom is in the direct chain of supervision of the individual or is the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD, agree that such testing is appropriate.
(2) Reasonable suspicion must be based on an articulable belief, drawn from facts and reasonable inferences from those particular facts that an HRP-certified individual is in possession of, or under the influence of, an illegal drug or alcohol. Such a belief may be based on, among other things:
(i) Observable phenomena, such as direct observation of the use or possession of illegal drugs or alcohol, or the physical symptoms of being under the influence of drugs or alcohol;
(ii) A pattern of abnormal conduct or erratic behavior;
(iii) Information provided by a reliable and credible source that is independently corroborated; or
(iv) Detection of alcohol odor on the breath.
(f)
Counterintelligence evaluation.
HRP candidates and, when selected, HRP-certified individuals, must submit to and successfully complete a counterintelligence evaluation, which may include a polygraph examination in accordance with 10 CFR part 709, Polygraph Examination Regulations and any subsequent revisions to that regulation.
§ 712.16
Security review.
(a) A personnel security specialist must review the personnel security file of every HRP candidate and every HRP-certified individual up for certification or recertification.
(b) If the personnel security file review is favorable, this information must be forwarded to the HRP certifying official and so noted on the certification form. If the review reveals a security concern, or if a security concern is identified during another component of the HRP process, the HRP certifying official must be notified, and the personnel security specialist must evaluate the concern in accordance with 10 CFR part 710. If a final determination is made by DOE personnel security to suspend access authorization, the HRP management official must be notified, the individual shall be temporarily removed from the HRP position, the HRP certifying official notified, and the information noted on the certification form.
(c) A favorable adjudication of security concerns under 10 CFR part 710 does not require granting or continuing HRP certification. Security concerns can be reviewed and evaluated for purposes of granting or continuing HRP certification even if the concerns have been favorably resolved under part 710.
(d) Any mental/personality disorder or behavioral issues found in a personnel security file, which could impact an HRP candidate or HRP-certified individual's ability to perform HRP duties, may be provided in writing to the SOMD, Designated Physician, and Designated Psychologist previously identified for receipt of this information. Medical personnel may not share any information obtained from the personnel security file with anyone who is not an HRP certifying official, except as consistent with the Privacy Act of 1974.
(e) If the DOE personnel security review is not completed within the 12-month time period for recertification and the individual's access authorization is not suspended, the HRP certification form shall be forwarded to the HRP certifying official for recertification or temporary removal, pending completion of the personnel security review.
§ 712.17
Instructional requirements.
(a) HRP management officials at each DOE site or facility with HRP positions must establish an initial and annual HRP instruction and education program. The program must provide:
(1) HRP candidates, HRP-certified individuals, supervisors, and managers, and supervisors and managers responsible for HRP positions with the knowledge described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(2) For all HRP medical personnel, a detailed explanation of HRP duties and responsibilities.
(b) The following program elements must be included in initial and annual instruction. The elements may be tailored to accommodate group differences and refresher training needs:
(1) The objectives of the HRP and the role and responsibilities of each individual in the HRP to include recognizing and responding to behavioral change and aberrant or unusual behavior that may result in a risk to national security or nuclear explosive safety; recognizing and reporting safety and/or security concerns, physical, mental, or emotional conditions that could adversely affect the performance of HRP duties or that require treatment by a doctor, physician's assistant or other health care professional; and prescription drug use; and an explanation of return-to-work requirements and continuous evaluation of HRP participants; and
(2) For those who have nuclear explosive responsibilities, a detailed explanation of duties and safety requirements.
§ 712.18
Transferring HRP certification.
(a) For HRP certification to be transferred, the individual must currently be certified in the HRP.
(b) Transferring the HRP certification from one site to another requires the following before the individual is allowed to perform HRP duties at the new site:
(1) Verify that the individual is currently certified in the HRP and is transferring into a designated HRP position;
(2) Incorporate the individual into the new site's alcohol and drug-testing program;
(3) Ensure that the 12-month time period for HRP requirements that was established at the prior site is not exceeded; and
(4) Provide site-specific instruction.
(c) Temporary assignment to HRP positions at other sites requires verification that the individual is currently enrolled in the HRP and has completed all site-specific instruction. The individual is required to return to the site that maintains his or her HRP certification for recertification.
§ 712.19
Actions related to removal, revocation and/or reinstatement.
(a)
Temporary removal.
The HRP management official shall direct the temporary removal of an HRP-certified individual when the management official:
(1) Identifies, during the course of the management evaluation, a safety or security concern that warrants such removal based on one or more of the types of behaviors and conditions identified in § 712.13(c);
(2) Receives a supervisor's written notice of the immediate removal of an HRP-certified individual; or
(3) Receives a recommendation from the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD to medically remove an HRP-certified individual consistent with § 712.14(h).
(b) The temporary removal of an HRP-certified individual from HRP duties pending a determination of the individual's reliability is an interim, precautionary action and does not constitute a determination that the individual is not fit to perform his or her required duties. Removal is not, in itself, cause for loss of pay, benefits, or other changes in employment status. Immediately upon directing a temporary removal, the HRP management official must notify the supervisor to take appropriate actions consistent with an immediate removal. Within five (5) business days of placing the individual on a temporary removal, the HRP management official must notify the individual in writing that s/he is temporarily removed.
(c) If temporary removal is based on derogatory information that is a security concern, the HRP management official must notify the HRP certifying official and the applicable DOE personnel security office.
(d) If temporary removal is based on a medical concern, the HRP management official must obtain a recommendation from the Designated Physician, Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD consistent with § 712.14(h).
(e) If the HRP management official determines, after conducting an evaluation of the circumstances or information that led to the temporary removal, that an individual who has been temporarily removed continues to meet the requirements for certification, the HRP management official must:
(1) Direct that the supervisor reinstate the individual and provide written explanation of the reasons and factual bases for the action;
(2) Notify the individual; and
(3) Notify the HRP certifying official.
(f) If the HRP management official determines that an individual who has been temporarily removed does not meet the HRP requirements for certification, the HRP management official must prepare a case chronology that explains why the individual does not meet the requirement for certification and forward it to the HRP certifying official. The HRP management official's determination that an individual does not meet certification requirement must be based on one or more of the types of behaviors and conditions identified in § 712.13(c). The HRP certifying official must review the case chronology from the HRP management official and take one of the following actions:
(1) Direct that the supervisor reinstate the individual, with any applicable medical restrictions, provide written explanation of the reasons and factual bases for the action, and notify the individual;
(2) Direct continuation of the temporary removal pending completion of specified actions (e.g., medical assessment, treatment) to resolve the concerns about the individual's reliability; or
(3) Recommend to the Manager the revocation of the individual's certification and provide the case chronology to the Manager. If the HRP certifying official is the Manager, he or she should take actions consistent with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(g) The Manager, on receiving the HRP management official's case chronology and the HRP certifying official's recommendation (if any), must take one of the following actions:
(1) Direct that the supervisor reinstate the individual, provide written explanation of the reasons and factual bases for the action, and notify the individual;
(2) Direct revocation of the individual's HRP certification, in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section; or
(3) Direct continuation of the temporary removal pending completion of specified actions (e.g., medical assessment, treatment) to resolve the concerns about the individual's reliability.
(h) Notification of Manager's initial decision: If the action is revocation, the Manager must direct the HRP management official to prepare an evaluative report. The appropriate DOE or NNSA counsel must review the evaluative report for legal sufficiency. Upon completion of the evaluative report, the Manager must send a letter by certified mail (return receipt requested) or hand deliver it with record of delivery to the individual whose certification is revoked notifying him or her of the reasons for the revocation and the options for review. The evaluative report must be appended to the letter. The Manager may withhold such a report, or portions thereof, to the extent that he or she determines that the report, or portions thereof, may be exempt from access by the employee under the Privacy Act or the Freedom of Information Act.
(i) If an individual is directed by the Manager or HRP certifying official to take specified actions to resolve HRP concerns pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) or (g)(3) of this section he or she must be reevaluated after those actions have been completed, and the Manager must direct either:
(1) Reinstatement of the individual; or
(2) Revocation of the individual's HRP certification. In the case of revocation, the HRP management official will be directed to prepare an evaluative report.
§ 712.20
Request for reconsideration or certification review hearing.
(a) An individual who receives notification of the Manager's decision to revoke his or her HRP certification under § 712.19 may choose one of the following options:
(1) Submit a written request to the Manager for reconsideration of the decision to revoke certification. The request must include the individual's response to the information that gave rise to the concern. The request must be sent by certified mail to the Manager within 20 working days after the individual received notice of the Manager's decision; or
(2) Submit a written request to the Manager for a certification review hearing. The request for a hearing must be sent by certified mail to the Manager within 20 working days after the individual receives notice of the Manager's decision.
(b) If an individual requests reconsideration by the Manager but not a certification review hearing, the Manager must, within 20 working days after receipt of the individual's request, send by certified mail (return receipt requested) a final agency decision to the individual.
(c) If an individual requests a certification review hearing, the Manager must forward the request to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(d) If an individual takes no action within 20 working days after receipt of the Manager's decision, the Manager's decision will become a final agency decision.
§ 712.21
Appointment of DOE counsel.
(a) Upon receipt from the individual of a written request for a certification review hearing, the Manager shall request appointment of DOE counsel as soon as possible.
(b) DOE Counsel is authorized to consult directly with the individual if he is not represented by counsel, or with the individual's counsel or representative if so represented, to clarify issues and reach stipulations with respect to testimony and contents of documents and other physical evidence. Such stipulations shall be binding upon the individual and the DOE Counsel for the purposes of this subpart.
§ 712.22
Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(a) Upon receipt of the hearing request from the Manager, the Director, DOE Office of Hearings and Appeals, shall appoint, as soon as practicable, an Administrative Judge.
(b) The Administrative Judge must have a DOE “Q” access authorization.
(c) An individual who requests a certification review hearing has the right to appear personally before the Administrative Judge; to present evidence in his or her own behalf, through witnesses or by documents, or by both; and to be accompanied and represented at the hearing by counsel or any other person of the individual's choosing and at the individual's own expense.
(d) An individual must come forward with evidence to demonstrate that the decision to revoke his or her HRP certification was clearly erroneous or that extraordinary circumstances warrant recertification into HRP. Evidence that the individual has rehabilitated or reformed since the time of the Manager's decision will not be considered by the Administrative Judge.
(e) DOE Counsel shall assist the Administrative Judge in establishing a complete administrative hearing record in the proceeding and bringing out a full and true disclosure of all facts, both favorable and unfavorable, having bearing on the issues before the Administrative Judge.
(f) In conducting the proceedings, the Administrative Judge will:
(1) Determine the date, time, and location of the hearing, including whether the hearing will be conducted by video teleconference;
(2) At least 7 calendar days prior to date scheduled for the hearing, convene a prehearing conference for the purpose of discussing stipulations and exhibits, identifying witnesses, and disposing of other appropriate matters. The conference will usually be conducted by telephone;
(3) Receive all relevant and material information relating to the individual's fitness for HRP duties through witnesses or documentation;
(4) Ensure that the individual is permitted to offer information in his or her behalf; to call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses and other persons who have made written or oral statements, and to present and examine documentary evidence to the extent permitted by national security;
(5) Require the testimony of the individual and all witnesses be given under oath or affirmation;
(6) Ensure that a transcript of the certification review proceedings is made; and
(7) Not engage in ex parte communications with either party.
(g) The Administrative Judge shall have all powers necessary to regulate the conduct of proceedings, including, but not limited to, establishing a list of persons to receive service of papers, issuing subpoenas for witnesses to attend the hearing or for the production of specific documents or other physical evidence, administering oaths and affirmations, ruling upon motions, receiving evidence, regulating the course of the hearing, disposing of procedural requests or similar matters, and taking other actions consistent with the regulations in this part. Requests for subpoenas shall be granted except where the Administrative Judge finds that the grant of subpoenas would clearly result in evidence or testimony that is repetitious, incompetent, irrelevant, or immaterial to the issues in the case.
(h) The Administrative Judge may return a case to the HRP Manager for a final agency decision consistent with § 712.20(b) if—
(1) The individual or his or her attorney fails to heed the instructions of the Administrative Judge;
(2) The individual fails to appear at the appointed time, date and location for the certification review hearing;
(3) The individual otherwise fails to cooperate at the hearing phase of the process; or
(4) The individual withdraws his/her request for a certification review hearing.
(i) Based on a review of the administrative hearing record, the Administrative Judge shall prepare a decision regarding the individual's eligibility for recertification in the HRP, which shall consist of written findings and a supporting statement of reasons. In making a decision, the Administrative Judge shall ensure that any doubt as to an individual's certification shall be resolved against the individual in favor of national security and/or safety.
§ 712.23
Administrative Judge's decision.
(a) Within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the hearing transcript by the Administrative Judge or the closing of the record, whichever is later, the Administrative Judge should forward his or her decision to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security. The Administrative Judge's decision must be accompanied by a copy of the record.
(b) Within 10 calendar days of receipt of the decision and the administrative record, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security should:
(1) Notify the individual and Manager in writing of the Administrative Judge's decision;
(2) Advise the individual in writing of the appeal procedures available to the individual in paragraph (c) of this section if the decision is unfavorable to the individual;
(3) Advise the Manager in writing of the appeal procedures available to the Manager in paragraph (c) of this section if the decision is favorable to the individual; and
(4) Provide the individual and/or counsel or representative, and the Manager a copy of the Administrative Judge's decision and the administrative record.
(c) The individual or the Manager may file with the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security a written request for further review of the decision by the cognizant Under Secretary along with a statement required by paragraph (e) of this section within 20 working days of the individual's or Manager's receipt of the Administrative Judge's decision;
(d) The copy of any request for further review of the individual's case by the cognizant Under Secretary filed by the Manager shall be provided to the individual by the Manager.
(e) The party filing a request for review of the individual's case by the cognizant Under Secretary shall include with the request a statement identifying the issues on which it wishes the cognizant Under Secretary to focus.
(f) The Administrative Judge's decision shall be considered final if a written request for review is not filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.24
Final decision by DOE Under Secretary.
(a) Within 10 calendar days of receipt of the written request for review, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security should forward to the cognizant Under Secretary the written request for review, the Administrative Judge's decision, and the administrative record.
(b) Upon receipt of the written request for review, the Administrative Judge's decision, and the administrative record, the cognizant Under Secretary, in consultation with the DOE General Counsel, will issue a final written decision. The cognizant Under Secretary may delegate this authority. In issuing a final decision, the cognizant Under Secretary shall expressly state that he or she is either revoking or restoring an individual's HRP certification. A copy of this decision must be sent by certified mail (return receipt requested) to the Manager and to the individual.
(c) The cognizant Under Secretary shall consider only that evidence and information in the administrative record at the time of the Administrative Judge's decision.
[83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.25
Cooperation by the individual.
(a) It is the responsibility of the HRP candidate or HRP certified individual to provide full, frank, and truthful answers to relevant and material questions, and when requested, furnish, or authorize others to furnish, information that DOE deems pertinent to reach a decision regarding HRP certification or recertification. This obligation to cooperate applies at any stage, including but not limited to initial certification, recertification, temporary removal, revocation, and/or hearing. The individual or candidate may elect not to cooperate; however, such refusal may prevent DOE from reaching an affirmative finding required for granting or continuing HRP certification. In this event, any HRP certification then in effect may be revoked, or, for HRP candidates, may not be granted.
(b) An HRP certified individual who receives notification of the Manager's decision to revoke his or her certification due to failure to cooperate may choose one of the following options:
(1) Take no action; or
(2) Within 20 working days after the individual received notice of the Manager's revocation decision, submit a written request by certified mail to the Manager for reconsideration. The request must include the individual's response to the information that gave rise to the revocation decision.
(c) Upon receipt of the request for reconsideration, the Manager shall notify the individual, in writing, within 20 calendar days of receipt of the written appeal, as to whether the action to revoke certification was appropriate. If the Manager determines that the action was inappropriate, he or she shall reverse revocation.

# Subpart B—Medical Standards
§ 712.30
Applicability.
This subpart establishes standards and procedures for conducting medical assessments of DOE and DOE contractor individuals in HRP positions.
§ 712.31
Purpose.
The standards and procedures set forth in this subpart are necessary for DOE to:
(a) Identify the presence of any mental/personality disorders, physical, or behavioral characteristics or conditions that present or are likely to present an unacceptable impairment in reliability;
(b) Facilitate the early diagnosis and treatment of disease or impairment and foster accommodation and rehabilitation;
(c) Determine what functions an HRP-certified individual may be able to perform and to facilitate the proper placement of individuals; and
(d) Provide for continuing monitoring of the health status of individuals to facilitate early detection and
correction of adverse health effects, trends, or patterns.
§ 712.32
Designated Physician.
(a) The Designated Physician must be qualified to provide professional expertise in the area of occupational medicine as it relates to the HRP.
(b) The Designated Physician must:
(1) Be a graduate of an accredited school of medicine or osteopathy;
(2) Have a valid, unrestricted state license to practice medicine in the state where HRP medical assessments occur;
(3) Have met the applicable HRP instruction requirements; and
(4) Be eligible for the appropriate DOE access authorization.
(c) The Designated Physician is responsible for the medical assessments of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals, including determining which components of the medical assessments may be performed by other qualified personnel. Although a portion of the assessment may be performed by another physician, physician's assistant, or nurse practitioner, the Designated Physician remains responsible for:
(1) Supervising the evaluation process;
(2) Interpreting the results of evaluations;
(3) Documenting medical conditions or issues that may disqualify an individual from the HRP;
(4) Providing medical assessment information to the Designated Psychologist to assist in determining psychological fitness;
(5) Determining, in conjunction with DOE if appropriate, the location and date of the next required medical assessment; and
(6) Signing a recommendation about the medical fitness of an individual for certification or recertification.
(d) The Designated Physician must immediately report to the SOMD any of the following about himself or herself:
(1) Initiation of an adverse action by any state medical licensing board or any other professional licensing board;
(2) Initiation of an adverse action by any Federal regulatory board since the last designation;
(3) The withdrawal of the privilege to practice by any institution;
(4) Being named a defendant in any criminal proceedings (felony or misdemeanor) since the last designation;
(5) Being evaluated or treated for alcohol use disorder or drug dependency or abuse since the last designation; or
(6) Occurrence, since the last designation, of a physical, mental/personality disorder, or health condition that might affect his or her ability to perform professional duties.
§ 712.33
Designated Psychologist.
(a) The Designated Psychologist reports to the SOMD and determines the psychological fitness of an individual to participate in the HRP. The results of this evaluation may be provided only to the Designated Physician or the SOMD.
(b) The Designated Psychologist must:
(1) Hold a doctoral degree from a clinical psychology program that includes a one-year clinical internship approved by the American Psychological Association or an equivalent program;
(2) Have accumulated a minimum of three years postdoctoral clinical experience with a major emphasis in psychological assessment and testing;
(3) Have a valid, unrestricted state license to practice clinical psychology in the state where HRP medical assessments occur;
(4) Have met the applicable HRP instruction requirements; and
(5) Be eligible for the appropriate DOE access authorization.
(c) The Designated Psychologist is responsible for all psychological evaluations of HRP candidates, HRP-certified individuals, and others as directed by the SOMD. Although a portion of the psychological evaluation may be performed by another psychologist, the Designated Psychologist must:
(1) Supervise the psychological evaluation process and designate which components may be performed by other qualified personnel;
(2) Upon request of management, assess the psychological fitness of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals for HRP duties, including specific
work settings, and recommend referrals as indicated; and
(3) Make referrals for psychiatric, psychological, substance abuse, or personal or family problems, and monitor the progress of individuals so referred.
(d) The Designated Psychologist must immediately report to the SOMD any of the following about himself or herself:
(1) Initiation of an adverse action by any state medical licensing board or any other professional licensing board;
(2) Initiation of an adverse action by any Federal regulatory board since the last designation;
(3) The withdrawal of the privilege to practice by any institution;
(4) Being named a defendant in any criminal proceeding (felony or misdemeanor) since the last designation;
(5) Being evaluated or treated for alcohol use disorder or drug dependency or abuse since the last designation; or
(6) Occurrence since the last designation of a physical, mental/personality disorder, or health condition that might affect his or her ability to perform professional duties.
§ 712.34
Site Occupational Medical Director.
(a) The SOMD must nominate a physician to serve as the Designated Physician and a clinical psychologist to serve as the Designated Psychologist. The nominations must be sent through the Manager to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee. Each nomination must describe the nominee's relevant training, experience, and licensure, and include a curriculum vitae and a copy of the nominee's current state or district license.
(b) The SOMD must submit a renomination report biennially through the Manager to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee. This report must be submitted at least 60 days before the second anniversary of the initial designation or of the last redesignation, whichever applies. The report must include:
(1) A statement evaluating the performance of the Designated Physician and Designated Psychologist during the previous designation period; and
(2) A copy of the valid, unrestricted state or district license of the Designated Physician and Designated Psychologist.
(c) The SOMD must submit, annually, to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee through the Manager, a written report summarizing HRP medical activity during the previous year. The SOMD must comply with any DOE directives specifying the form or contents of the annual report.
(d) The SOMD must investigate any reports of performance issues regarding a Designated Physician or Designated Psychologist, and the SOMD may suspend either official from HRP-related duties. If the SOMD suspends either official, the SOMD must notify the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee and provide supporting documentation and reasons for the action.
[69 FR 3223, Jan. 23, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 68731, Nov. 28, 2006; 83 FR 18208, Apr. 26, 2018; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.35
Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee must:
(a) Develop policies, standards, and guidance for the medical aspects of the HRP, including the psychological testing inventory to be used;
(b) Review the qualifications of Designated Physicians and Designated Psychologists, and concur or nonconcur with their designations by sending a statement to the Manager and an informational copy to the SOMD; and
(c) Provide technical assistance on medical aspects of the HRP to all DOE elements and DOE contractors.
[69 FR 3223, Jan. 23, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 83 FR 18208, Apr. 26, 2018; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.36
Medical assessment process.
(a) The Designated Physician, under the supervision of the SOMD, is responsible for the medical assessment of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals. In carrying out this responsibility, the Designated Physician or the SOMD must integrate the medical evaluations, psychological evaluations,
psychiatric evaluations, and any other relevant information to determine an individual's overall medical qualification for assigned duties.
(b) Employers must provide a job task analysis for those individuals involved in HRP duties to both the Designated Physician and the Designated Psychologist before each medical assessment and psychological evaluation. HRP medical assessments and psychological evaluations may not be performed if a job task analysis has not been provided.
(c) The medical process by the Designated Physician includes:
(1) Medical assessments for initial certification, annual recertification, and evaluations for reinstatement following temporary removal from the HRP;
(2) Evaluations resulting from self-referrals and referrals by management;
(3) Routine medical contacts and occupational and nonoccupational health counseling sessions; and
(4) Review of current legal drug use.
(d) Psychological evaluations must be conducted:
(1) For initial certification. This psychological evaluation consists of a generally accepted psychological assessment (test) approved by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee and a semi-structured interview.
(2) For recertification. This psychological evaluation consists of a semi-structured interview, which is conducted annually at the time of the medical examination.
(3) Every third year. The medical assessment for recertification must include a generally accepted psychological assessment (test) approved by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee.
(4) When the SOMD determines that additional psychological or psychiatric evaluations are required to resolve HRP concerns as listed in § 712.13(c).
(e) Following absences requiring return-to-work evaluations under applicable DOE directives, the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must determine whether a psychological evaluation is necessary.
(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the Designated Physician must forward the completed medical assessment of an HRP candidate and HRP-certified individual to the SOMD, who must make a recommendation, based on the assessment, to the individual's HRP management official. If the Designated Physician determines that a currently certified individual no longer meets the HRP requirements, the Designated Physician must immediately, orally, inform the HRP management official. A written explanation must follow within 24 hours.
(g) The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD may make a medical recommendation for return to work and work accommodations for HRP-certified individuals.
(h) The following documentation is required after treatment of an individual for any disqualifying condition:
(1) A summary of the diagnosis, treatment, current status, and prognosis to be furnished by the treatment provider to the Designated Physician;
(2) The medical opinion of the Designated Physician advising the individual's supervisor whether the individual is able to return to work in either an HRP or non-HRP capacity; and
(3) Any periodic monitoring plan, approved by the Designated Physician or the Designated Psychologist and the SOMD, used to evaluate the reliability of the individual.
[69 FR 3223, Jan. 23, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 68731, Nov. 28, 2006; 83 FR 18208, Apr. 26, 2018; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 712.37
Evaluation for hallucinogen use.
If DOE determines that an HRP candidate or HRP-certified individual has used any hallucinogen, the individual is not eligible for certification or recertification unless:
(a) Five years have passed since the last use of the hallucinogen;
(b) There is no evidence of any flashback within the last five years from the previous hallucinogen use; and
(c) The individual has a record of acceptable job performance and observed behavior.
§ 712.38
Maintenance of medical records.
(a) The medical records of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals must be maintained in accordance with the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and DOE implementing regulations in 10 CFR part 1008; the Department of Labor's regulations on access to individual exposure and medical records, 29 CFR 1910.1020; and applicable DOE directives. DOE contractors also may be subject to section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 793, and its implementing rules, including confidentiality provisions in 41 CFR 60-741.23 (d).
(b) The psychological record of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals is a component of the medical record. The psychological record must:
(1) Contain any clinical reports, test protocols and data, notes of individual contacts and correspondence, and other information pertaining to an individual's contact with a psychologist;
(2) Be stored in a secure location in the custody of the Designated Psychologist; and
(3) Be kept separate from other medical record documents, with access limited to the SOMD and the Designated Physician.
Pt. 715

# PART 715—DEFINITION OF NONRECOURSE PROJECT-FINANCED
Sec.
715.1
Purpose and scope.
715.2
Definitions.
715.3
Definition of “Nonrecourse Project-Financed.”

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7651o(a)(2)(B); 42 U.S.C. 7254.

# Source:
56 FR 55064, Oct. 24, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 715.1
Purpose and scope.
This part sets forth the definition of “nonrecourse project-financed” as that term is used to define “new independent power production facility,” in section 416(a)(2)(B) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 7651o(a)(2)(B). This definition is for purposes of section 416(a)(2)(B) only. It is not intended to alter or impact the tax treatment of any facility or facility owner under the Internal Revenue Code and regulations.
§ 715.2
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Act
means the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, 104 Stat. 2399.
Facility
means a “new independent power production facility” as that term is used in the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7651o(a)(2).
§ 715.3
Definition of “Nonrecourse Project-Financed”.
Nonrecourse project-financed
means when being financed by any debt, such debt is secured by the assets financed and the revenues received by the facility being financed including, but not limited to, part or all of the revenues received under one or more agreements for the sale of the electric output from the facility, and which neither an electric utility with a retail service territory, nor a public utility as defined by section 201(e) of the Federal Power Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 824(e), if any of its facilities are financed with general credit, is obligated to repay in whole or in part. A commitment to contribute equity or the contribution of equity to a facility by an electric utility shall not be considered an obligation of such utility to repay the debt of a facility. The existence of limited guarantees, commitments to pay for cost overruns, indemnity provisions, or other similar undertakings or assurances by the facility's owners or other project participants will not disqualify a facility from being “nonrecourse project-financed” as long as, at the time of the financing for the facility, the borrower is obligated to make repayment of the term debt from the revenues generated by the facility, rather than from other sources of funds. Projects that are 100 percent equity financed are also considered “nonrecourse project-financed” for purposes of section 416(a)(2)(B).
Pt. 719

# PART 719—CONTRACTOR LEGAL MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
Sec.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
719.1
What is the purpose of this part?
719.2
What are the definitions of terms used in this part?
719.3
What contracts are covered by this part?
719.4
Are law firms that are retained by contract by the Department covered by this part?
719.5
What contracts are not covered by this part?
719.6
Are there any types of legal matters not included in the coverage of this part?
719.7
Is there a procedure for exceptions or deviations from this part?
719.8
Does the provision of protected documents from the contractor to the Department constitute a waiver of privilege?

# Subpart B—Legal Management Plan, Staffing and Resource Plan and Annual Legal Budget
719.10
Who must submit a Legal Management Plan?
719.11
When must a Legal Management Plan be submitted or revised?
719.12
What information must be included in the Legal Management Plan?
719.13
Who at the Department receives and reviews the Legal Management Plan?
719.14
Will the Department notify the contractor concerning the adequacy or inadequacy of the submitted Legal Management Plan?
719.15
What are the requirements for a Staffing and Resource Plan?
719.16
When must the Staffing and Resource Plan be submitted?
719.17
Are there any budgetary requirements?

# Subpart C—Engagement Letter
719.20
When must an engagement letter be submitted to Department Counsel?
719.21
What are the required elements of an engagement letter?

# Subpart D—Requests from Contractor Counsel to Initiate, Defend, and Settle Legal Matters
719.30
In what circumstances may the contractor initiate litigation, including appeals from adverse decisions?
719.31
When must the contractor initiate litigation against third parties?
719.32
What must the contractor do when it receives notice that it is a party to litigation?
719.33
In what circumstances must the contractor seek permission from the Department to enter a settlement agreement?
719.34
What documentation must the contractor provide to Department Counsel when it seeks permission to enter a settlement agreement?
719.35
When must the contractor provide a copy of an executed settlement agreement?

# Subpart E—Reimbursement of Costs Subject to this Part
719.40
What effect do the regulations of this part have on cost allowability?
719.41
How does the Department determine whether fees are reasonable?
719.42
What categories of costs are unallowable?
719.43
What is the treatment of travel costs?
719.44
What categories of costs require advance approval?
719.45
Are there any special procedures or requirements regarding subcontractor and retrospective insurance carrier legal costs?
719.46
Are costs covered by this part subject to audit?
719.47
What happens when more than one contractor is a party to a matter?

# Subpart F—Department Counsel
719.50
What authority does Department Counsel have?
719.51
What information must be forwarded to the General Counsel's Office concerning contractor submissions to Department Counsel under this part?
719.52
What types of field actions must be coordinated with the General Counsel?
Appendix A to Part 719—Guidance for Legal Resource Management

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201, 5814, 5815 and 7101,
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 2401,
et seq.

# Source:
78 FR 25809, May 3, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 719.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part facilitates management of retained legal counsel and contractor legal costs, including litigation and legal matter costs. It requires the contractor to develop a Legal Management Plan, to document the analysis used to decide when to utilize outside counsel, and to document what law firm or individual attorney will be engaged as outside counsel. This part also requires the contractor to document the terms of the engagement with retained legal counsel. Payment of Department-retained law firm invoices and reimbursement of contractor legal costs
under covered contracts are subject to compliance with this part.
§ 719.2
What are the definitions of terms used in this part?
For purposes of this part:
Alternative dispute resolution
includes, but is not limited to, processes such as mediation, neutral evaluation, mini-trials and arbitration.
Contractor
means any person or entity with whom the Department contracts for the acquisition of goods or services.
Covered contracts
means those contracts described in § 719.3 of this part.
Days
means calendar days.
Department
means the Department of Energy (DOE), including the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA).
Department Counsel
means the attorney in the DOE or NNSA field office, or Headquarters office, designated as the contracting officer's representative and point of contact for a contractor or for Department retained legal counsel, for purposes of this part.
General Counsel
means the DOE General Counsel for DOE legal matters and the NNSA General Counsel for NNSA legal matters.
Legal costs
means, but is not limited to, administrative expenses associated with the provision of legal services by retained legal counsel; the costs of legal services provided by retained legal counsel; the costs of the services, if the services are procured in connection with a legal matter, of accountants, consultants, experts or others retained by the contractor or by retained legal counsel; and any similar costs incurred by retained legal counsel or in connection with the services of retained legal counsel.
Legal Management Plan
means a document required by subpart B of this part describing the contractor's practices for managing legal costs and legal matters for which it procures the services of retained legal counsel.
Litigation
means a proceeding arising under or related to a contract between the contractor and the Department to which the contractor is a party in a State, tribal, territorial, foreign, or federal court or before an administrative body or an arbitrator.
Retained legal counsel
means a licensed attorney working in the private sector who is retained by a contractor or the Department to provide legal services.
Retrospective insurance
means any insurance policy under which the premium is not fixed but is subject to adjustments to reimburse the insurance carrier for actual losses incurred or paid (e.g. claims, settlements, damages, and legal costs). Retrospective insurance includes service-type insurance policies as described in 48 CFR 928.370.
Settlement agreement
means a written agreement between a contractor and one or more parties pursuant to which one or more parties waives the right to pursue a legal claim in exchange for something of value.
Significant matters
means legal matters involving significant issues as determined by Department Counsel and identified to a contractor in writing, and any legal matters where the amount of any legal costs, over the life of the matter, is expected to exceed $100,000.
Staffing and Resource Plan
means a statement prepared in accordance with subpart B of this part by retained legal counsel that describes the method for managing a Significant Matter in litigation.
§ 719.3
What contracts are covered by this part?
(a) Unless excluded under § 719.5, this part covers the following three categories of contracts:
(1) All management and operating contracts;
(2) Non-management and operating cost reimbursement contracts exceeding $100,000,000; and
(3) Non-management and operating contracts exceeding $100,000,000 that include cost reimbursable elements exceeding $10,000,000 (e.g., contracts with both fixed-price and cost-reimbursable line items where the cost-reimbursable line items exceed $10,000,000 or time and materials contracts where the materials portions exceed $10,000,000).
(b) This part also covers contracts otherwise not covered by paragraph (a) of this section but which contain a
clause requiring compliance with this part.
(c) This part also covers any contract the Department awards directly to retained legal counsel exceeding $100,000.
§ 719.4
Are law firms that are retained by contract by the Department covered by this part?
Legal counsel retained under fixed rate or other type of contract or other agreement by the Department to provide legal services must comply with the following if the legal costs over the life of the matter for which counsel has been retained are expected by the Department to exceed $100,000 and retained legal counsel are so notified by the Department:
(a) Requirements related to Staffing and Resource Plans in subpart B of this part;
(b) Cost guidelines in subpart E of this part; and
(c) Engagement letter requirements in subpart C of this part if the retained legal counsel subcontracts legal work valued at $25,000 or more (e.g., a law firm retained by the Department subcontracts with another law firm to provide $26,000 in discovery-related legal work).
§ 719.5
What contracts are not covered by this part?
This part does not cover any contract under which the Department is not responsible for directly reimbursing the contractor for legal costs, such as fixed price contracts.
§ 719.6
Are there any types of legal matters not included in the coverage of this part?
Legal matters not covered by this part include:
(a) Matters handled by counsel retained by an insurance carrier, except under retrospective insurance in accordance with § 719.45;
(b) Routine intellectual property law support services; and
(c) Routine workers and unemployment compensation matters.
§ 719.7
Is there a procedure for exceptions or deviations from this part?
(a) Requests for exceptions or deviations from this part must be made in writing to Department Counsel and approved by the General Counsel. If an alternate procedure is proposed for compliance with an individual requirement in this part, that procedure must be included in the written request by the contractor. The General Counsel or his/her delegee shall provide a written response to such requests; however the response shall not require a justification of the Department's exercise of its discretion.
(b) The General Counsel may authorize exceptions or deviations requested under paragraph (a) of this section. The General Counsel may also establish exceptions to this part based on current field office and contractor practices that satisfy the purpose of these requirements.
(c) Exceptions to this part that are also a deviation from the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation (DEAR) cost principles (see subpart D of this part) must be approved in accordance with applicable DOE procurement policy. See, e.g., DOE Acquisition Guide chapter 1.1, requiring approval by the Senior Procurement Executive of DOE or NNSA as applicable. In any event, the written request from a contractor for a deviation from a cost principle relating to this part must be submitted to the contracting officer, with a copy provided to Department Counsel.
§ 719.8
Does the provision of protected documents from the contractor to the Department constitute a waiver of privilege?
Contractors are required to provide detailed information about third-party claims and litigation to the Department. The Department and its contractors typically share common legal and strategic interests relating to pending or threatened litigation. The common interest between the parties is primarily rooted in the fact that the Department reimburses contractors for allowable costs incurred when litigation is threatened or initiated against contractors. However, other sources of the common interest between the Department and its contractors may include, but are not limited to, an interest in completion of the agency's important mission work and an interest in safe and efficient operation of the
Department's facilities. To the extent documents associated with compliance with this part (e.g., Staffing and Resource Plans, invoices, engagement letters, settlement authority requests, and draft pleadings) are protected from disclosure to third parties because the items constitute attorney work product and/or involve attorney client communications, the contractor's provision of these items to the Department does not constitute a waiver of privilege. As long as the Department and the contractor share a common interest in the outcome of legal matters, this mutual legal interest permits the parties to share privileged material without waiving any applicable privilege.

# Subpart B—Legal Management Plan, Staffing and Resource Plan and Annual Legal Budget
§ 719.10
Who must submit a Legal Management Plan?
Contractors who are parties to contracts identified under § 719.3(a) and (b) must submit a Legal Management Plan.
§ 719.11
When must a Legal Management Plan be submitted or revised?
(a) Contractors must submit a Legal Management Plan to Department Counsel within 60 days following award of the contract. The deadline for submitting the Legal Management Plan may be extended by Department Counsel.
(b) Contractors must submit a revised Legal Management Plan upon request of Department Counsel within 60 days of receipt of the Department Counsel's request. The request for a revised Legal Management Plan shall include an explanation of the request. The deadline for submitting the Legal Management Plan may be extended by the Department Counsel.
§ 719.12
What information must be included in the Legal Management Plan?
The Legal Management Plan must include the following items:
(a) A description of the contractor's in-house counsel resources at the time the Legal Management Plan is submitted, including areas of expertise and an explanation of the types of matters expected to be handled in-house.
(b) A description of the legal matters that may necessitate engagement of retained legal counsel.
(c) A description of the factors the contractor will consider in determining whether to handle a particular matter utilizing retained legal counsel.
(d) An outline of the factors the contractor must consider in selecting retained legal counsel, including:
(1) Cost;
(2) Past performance of previously retained counsel;
(3) Particular expertise in a specific area of the law;
(4) Familiarity with the Department's activity at the particular site and the prevalent issues associated with facility history and current operations;
(5) Location of retained legal counsel relative to:
(i) The site involved in the matter,
(ii) Any forum in which the matter will be processed, and
(iii) The location where a significant portion of the work will be performed;
(6) Experience as an advocate in alternative dispute resolution procedures such as mediation;
(7) Actual or potential conflicts of interest; and
(8) The means and rate of compensation (e.g., hourly billing, fixed fee, blended fees).
(e) A description of the system that the contractor will use to review each matter in litigation to determine whether and when alternative dispute resolution is appropriate.
(f) A description of the role of in-house counsel in cost management.
(g) A description of the contractor's process for review and approval of invoices for legal costs.
(h) A description of the contractor's strategy for interaction with, and supervision of, retained legal counsel.
(i) A description of the procedures the contractor will employ in order to seek timely approval from Department Counsel to settle any legal matters as required by § 719.34 of this part;
(j) A description of the contractor's strategy for keeping Department Counsel apprised of all legal matters covered by this part (e.g., regularly scheduled meetings and written communications).
§ 719.13
Who at the Department receives and reviews the Legal Management Plan?
Contractors must submit a Legal Management Plan to Department Counsel. If the contractor has not been notified of the assignment of Department Counsel, the contractor must submit the Legal Management Plan to the contracting officer and the DOE Deputy General Counsel for Litigation and Enforcement or the NNSA Deputy General Counsel as appropriate.
§ 719.14
Will the Department notify the contractor concerning the adequacy or inadequacy of the submitted Legal Management Plan?
The Contracting Officer or Department Counsel will notify the contractor of any non-compliance or inadequate information relating to requirements in § 719.12 within 30 days of the contractor's submission of the plan. The contractor must either correct matters identified within 30 days of notification or file a letter with the General Counsel disputing the determination of a deficiency.
§ 719.15
What are the requirements for a Staffing and Resource Plan?
(a) For significant matters in litigation, the contractor must require retained legal counsel to prepare a Staffing and Resource Plan. The contractor must then forward the Staffing and Resource Plan to Department Counsel.
(b) Retained legal counsel retained directly by the Department subject to this part must prepare a Staffing and Resource Plan and forward it to Department Counsel.
(c) A Staffing and Resource Plan must describe the following:
(1) Major phases likely to be involved in the handling of the matter;
(2) Timing and sequence of such phases;
(3) Projected cost for each phase of the representation; and
(4) Detailed description of resources that the retained legal counsel intends to devote to the representation.
(d) A Staffing and Resource Plan must include a budget, broken down by phases, including at a minimum the following phases:
(1) Matter assessment, development and administration;
(2) Pretrial pleadings and motions;
(3) Discovery;
(4) Trial preparation and trial; and
(5) Appeal.
(e) The contractor must notify Department Counsel before incurring retained legal counsel costs in excess of costs listed in the budget developed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
§ 719.16
When must the Staffing and Resource Plan be submitted?
(a) The contractor or retained legal counsel must submit the Staffing and Resource Plan to Department Counsel within 30 days after the filing of an answer or a dispositive motion in lieu of an answer, 30 days after a determination that the cost is expected to exceed $100,000, or 30 days after notification from Department Counsel that a matter is considered significant, whichever is sooner. The deadline for submitting the Staffing and Resource Plan may be extended by Department Counsel.
(b) Department Counsel may state objections to the Staffing and Resource Plan within 30 days of receipt of a Staffing and Resource Plan. When an objection is stated, the contractor or retained legal counsel must either revise the Staffing and Resource Plan to satisfy the objection within 30 days or file a letter with the General Counsel disputing the objection.
(c) Contractors must require retained legal counsel to update Staffing and Resource Plans annually or more frequently if there are significant changes in the matter. The contractor must submit the Staffing and Resource Plan updates to Department Counsel. Similarly, Department retained legal counsel must submit to Department Counsel annual Staffing and Resource Plan updates or more frequent updates if there are significant changes in the matter.
§ 719.17
Are there any budgetary requirements?
(a) Contractors required to submit a Legal Management Plan must also submit an annual legal budget to Department Counsel.
(b) The annual legal budget must include cost projections for significant matters at a level of detail reflective of the types of billable activities and the stage of each such matter.
(c) For informational purposes for both the contractor and Department Counsel, the contractor must submit a report to Department Counsel comparing its budgeted and actual legal costs within 30 days of the conclusion of the period covered by each annual legal budget. The Department recognizes, however, that there may be departures from the annual budget beyond the control of the contractor.

# Subpart C—Engagement Letter
§ 719.20
When must an engagement letter be submitted to Department Counsel?
Contractors must submit a copy of an executed engagement letter between it and retained legal counsel to Department Counsel when the retained counsel is expected to provide $25,000 or more in legal services for a particular matter. A copy of the executed engagement letter must be submitted to Department Counsel upon execution.
§ 719.21
What are the required elements of an engagement letter?
(a) The engagement letter must require retained legal counsel to assist the contractor in complying with this part and any supplemental guidance distributed under this part.
(b) At a minimum, the engagement letter must include the following:
(1) A process for review and documented approval of all billing by a contractor representative including the timing and scope of billing reviews.
(2) A statement that provision of records to the Government is not intended to constitute a waiver of any applicable legal privilege, protection, or immunity with respect to disclosure of these records to third parties. An exemption for specific records may be obtained where contractors can demonstrate that a particular situation may provide grounds for a waiver.
(3) A requirement that the contractor, the Department, and the Government Accountability Office have the right, upon request, and at reasonable times and locations to inspect, copy, and audit all records documenting billable fees and costs.
(4) A statement that all records must be retained for a period of six (6) years and three (3) months after the final payment or after final case disposition, whichever is later.
(5) Identification of all attorneys and staff who are assigned to the matter and the rate and basis of their compensation (i.e., hourly rates, fixed fees, contingency arrangement) and a process for obtaining approval of temporary adjustments in staffing levels or identified attorneys.
(6) An initial assessment of the matter by retained legal counsel, along with a commitment to provide updates as necessary.
(7) A description of billing procedures, including frequency of billing and billing statement format.
(8) A statement setting forth an agreement that the retained legal counsel will prepare a Staffing and Resource Plan in accordance with the requirements of § 719.15.
(9) A statement setting forth an agreement to consider alternative dispute resolution at the earliest possible stage and thereafter as appropriate where litigation is involved.
(10) A statement setting forth an agreement that retained legal counsel must comply with the cost guidelines in subpart E of this part.
(11) A statement setting forth an agreement that retained legal counsel will provide a certification concerning the costs submitted for reimbursement. The certification that must be included in bills or invoices submitted by retained legal counsel must appear as follows: “Under penalty of law, [the representative] acknowledges the expectation that the bill will be paid by the contractor and that the contractor will be reimbursed by the Federal Government through the U.S. Department of Energy, and, based on personal
knowledge and a good faith belief, certifies that the bill is truthful and accurate, and that the services and charges set forth herein comply with the terms of engagement and the policies set forth in the Department of Energy's regulation and guidance on contractor legal management requirements, and that the costs and charges set forth herein are appropriate and related to the representation of the client.” The certification must be signed and dated by a representative of the retained legal counsel. Invoices must contain all elements (e.g., date of service, description of service, name of attorney, etc.) set forth in the model bill format in Appendix A to this part.
(12) A statement setting forth agreement to identify and address promptly any professional conflicts of interest.
(c) There may be additional requirements for an engagement letter based on the needs of the contractor or the Departmental element requiring the services of the Department retained legal counsel.

# Subpart D—Requests From Contractor Counsel To Initiate, Defend, and Settle Legal Matters
§ 719.30
In what circumstances may the contractor initiate litigation, including appeals from adverse decisions?
(a) The contractor must provide written notice to Department Counsel prior to initiating litigation or appealing from adverse decisions.
(b) The contractor may not initiate litigation for which it seeks reimbursement without prior written authorization of Department Counsel.
(c) The following information must be provided to Department Counsel by the contractor prior to initiating litigation or appealing an adverse decision:
(1) Identification of the proposed parties;
(2) The nature of the proposed action;
(3) Relief sought;
(4) Venue;
(5) Proposed representation and reason for selection;
(6) An analysis of the issues and the likelihood of success, and any time limitation associated with the requested approval;
(7) The estimated costs associated with the proposed action, including whether outside counsel has agreed to a contingent fee arrangement;
(8) Whether, for any reason, the contractor will assume any part of the costs of the action;
(9) A description of any attempts to resolve the issues that would be the subject of the litigation, such as through mediation or other means of alternative dispute resolution; and
(10) A discussion regarding why initiating litigation would prove beneficial to the contractor and to the Department.
§ 719.31
When must the contractor initiate litigation against third parties?
The contractor must initiate litigation, upon the request of the contracting officer, against third parties including proceedings before administrative agencies, in connection with the contract. The contractor shall proceed with such litigation in good faith and as directed from time to time by Department Counsel.
§ 719.32
What must the contractor do when it receives notice that it is a party to litigation?
(a) The contractor shall give the contracting officer and Department Counsel immediate notice in writing of any legal proceeding, including any proceeding before an administrative agency and any claim which will be handled by a retrospective insurance carrier if costs (including Legal costs, settlements, claims paid, damages, etc.) are likely to be $100,000 or more, filed against the contractor arising out of the performance of the contract and shall provide a copy of all relevant filings and any other documents that may be requested by the contracting officer and/or Department Counsel. The Department Counsel will direct the contractor as to:
(1) Whether the contractor must authorize the Government to defend the action;
(2) Whether the Government will take charge of the action; or
(3) Whether the Government must receive an assignment of the contractor's rights.
(b) The contractor shall proceed with such litigation in good faith and as directed from time to time by the Department Counsel.
(c) If the costs and expenses associated with the legal proceeding against the contractor are potentially allowable under the contract, the contractor shall:
(1) Authorize Department representatives to collaborate with contractor in-house counsel or Department Counsel-approved outside counsel in settling or defending the legal proceeding; or counsel for any associated insurance carrier in settling or defending the claim if retrospective insurance applies or the amount of liability claimed exceeds the amount of insurance coverage; and
(2) Authorize Department representatives to settle the legal proceeding or to defend or represent the contractor in and/or to take charge of any litigation, if required by the Department, except where the liability is covered by bond or is insured by an insurance policy other than retrospective insurance.
§ 719.33
In what circumstances must the contractor seek permission from the Department to enter a settlement agreement?
The contractor must obtain permission from Department Counsel to enter a settlement agreement if the settlement agreement requires contractor payment of $25,000 or more. Obtaining this approval does not represent a determination that the settlement amount and/or the legal costs incurred in connection with the underlying legal matter will be determined to be allowable.
§ 719.34
What documentation must the contractor provide to Department Counsel when it seeks permission to enter a settlement agreement?
The contractor must provide a written statement to the Department Counsel that includes the following information, as applicable:
(a) The amount of any proposed monetary settlement payment.
(b) Titles and docket numbers associated with the case(s) for which the contractor is seeking approval to settle;
(c) The procedural history of the case(s) or issue(s);
(d) A narrative description of the legal claims or allegations at issue in the matter and any background information that explains events that precipitated the initiation of the matter;
(e) A description of the history of the settlement discussions;
(f) A description of the terms of the proposed settlement agreement or requested settlement authority and the rationale for the contractor entering into the proposed agreement;
(g) If the proposed total monetary settlement amount would be allocated among multiple plaintiffs, a list of the plaintiffs and the amount of money each would receive pursuant to the proposed settlement agreement as well as an explanation as to why the settlement amount is different for any particular plaintiff, if appropriate;
(h) A description as to why settlement of the matter is in the best interest of the Department; and
(i) Any additional supporting documents requested by Department Counsel.
§ 719.35
When must the contractor provide a copy of an executed settlement agreement?
A contractor must provide a copy of an executed settlement agreement within seven (7) days of execution.

# Subpart E—Reimbursement of Costs Subject to This Part
§ 719.40
What effect do the regulations of this part have on cost allowability?
Contractor and retained legal counsel compliance with this part is a prerequisite for allowability of legal costs. However, compliance with this part does not guarantee that legal costs will be determined to be allowable. Only the contracting officer has the authority to determine allowability of costs in accordance with 48 CFR (FAR) part 31 and (DEAR) part 931 and all other applicable contract terms and conditions.
§ 719.41
How does the Department determine whether fees are reasonable?
In determining whether fees or rates charged by retained legal counsel are reasonable, the Department may consider among other things:
(a) Whether the lowest reasonably achievable fees or rates (including any currently available or negotiable discounts) were obtained from retained legal counsel;
(b) Whether lower rates from other firms providing comparable services, at appropriate competency and experience levels, were available;
(c) Whether alternative rate structures such as flat, contingent, and other innovative proposals, were considered; and
(d) The complexity of the legal matter and the expertise of the law firm in this area.
§ 719.42
What categories of costs are unallowable?
(a) Specific categories of unallowable costs are contained in the cost principles at 48 CFR (FAR) part 31 and 48 CFR (DEAR) part 931 and 48 CFR 970.31. See also 41 U.S.C. 4304.
(b) Costs that are customarily or already included in billed hourly rates are not separately reimbursable.
(c) Interest charges that a contractor incurs on any outstanding (unpaid) bills from retained legal counsel are not reimbursable.
§ 719.43
What is the treatment of travel costs?
(a) Travel and related expenses must at a minimum comply with the restrictions set forth in 48 CFR 31.205-46, or 48 CFR (DEAR) 970.3102-05-46, as appropriate, to be reimbursable.
(b) Travel time may be allowed at a full hourly rate for the portion of time during which retained legal counsel performs legal work for which it was retained; any remaining travel time shall be reimbursed at 50 percent of the full hourly rate, except that in no event will travel time spent working for other clients be allowable. Also, for long distance travel that could be completed by various methods of transportation, e.g., car, train, or plane, costs charged by retained legal counsel or any agent of retained legal counsel will be considered reasonable only if the individuals charge no more travel time than it would take to utilize the fastest mode of transportation that is cost-effective. For example, if retained legal counsel travels for 10 hours by train when a cost-effective flight that would take two hours to get to the same destination is available, the attorney may charge a maximum of two hours for the time spent traveling.
§ 719.44
What categories of costs require advance approval?
(a) To be considered for reimbursement, costs incurred by retained legal counsel for the following require advance written approval from Department Counsel or the submission of subsequent specific justification to Department Counsel when circumstances out of the contractor's control make advance approval unobtainable:
(1) Computers or general application software, or non-routine computerized databases, if they are specifically created for a particular matter. For costs associated with the creation and use of computerized databases, contractors and retained legal counsel must ensure that the creation and use of computerized databases is necessary and cost-effective. Use of databases originally created by the Department or its contractors for other purposes, but that can be used to assist a contractor or retained legal counsel in connection with a particular matter, should be considered. Contractors and retained legal counsel must ensure that DOE is provided the discretion to obtain unlimited access to and dominion over any computers or general application software, or non-routine computerized databases specifically created for a particular matter;
(2) Secretarial and support services, word processing, or temporary support personnel;
(3) Attendance by more than one attorney at a deposition, court hearing or interview;
(4) Expert witnesses and consultants;
(5) Trade publications, books, treatises, background materials, and other similar documents;
(6) Professional or educational seminars and conferences;
(7) Preparation of bills or time spent responding to questions about bills from either the Department or the contractor;
(8) Food and beverages when the attorney or consultant is not on travel status and away from the home office;
(9) Pro hac vice admissions; and
(10) Time charged for law students' or interns' services.
(b) Requests for fee increases by retained legal counsel, other than those under contract directly with the Department, must be sent in writing to the contractor, who will review the request for reasonableness. If the contractor determines the request is reasonable, the contractor must seek approval for the increase from Department Counsel before it authorizes any increase. Contractors should attempt to lock in rates for partners, associates and paralegals for at least a two year period.
§ 719.45
Are there any special procedures or requirements regarding subcontractor and retrospective insurance carrier legal costs?
(a) The contractor shall establish a monitoring system for significant matters in litigation which are handled by subcontractors other than retrospective insurance carriers whose contracts provide for the reimbursement of legal costs. The purpose of this monitoring system is to enable the contractor to be regularly informed of the progress of the Significant Matter, to monitor the associated costs and help ensure that they are reasonable, and to report on the progress of the Significant Matter and the associated costs to Department Counsel.
(b) The contractor shall require retrospective insurance carriers and other subcontractors whose contracts provide for the reimbursement of legal costs to request prior permission from the contractor to enter into a settlement agreement with, or make any payments to, claimants or third-parties if:
(1) In the case of a subcontractor other than a retrospective insurance carrier, the settlement or payment amount is likely to reach $25,000 or more; or
(2) In the case of a retrospective insurance carrier, the settlement or payment amount is likely to reach $100,000 or more.
(c) The contractor shall require the insurance carrier or other subcontractor to submit all documentation described in § 719.34 and to provide the contractor with a copy of the executed settlement agreement within seven days of execution, which the contractor will promptly forward to Department Counsel. The contractor shall not authorize the subcontractor to enter into a settlement agreement or make a payment to a claimant or third-party that is likely to reach or exceed the above-stated threshold amounts without first obtaining the approval of the Department Counsel.
(d) Upon request from Department Counsel, the Contracting Officer, or other authorized representative of the Department, the contractor shall provide detailed cost information regarding particular legal matters handled by retrospective insurance carriers or other subcontractors whose contracts provide for the reimbursement of legal costs.
(e) The contractor shall provide reviewed costs and status updates for all significant matters in litigation handled by subcontractors whose contracts provide for the reimbursement of legal costs in accordance with § 719.51. The contractor is not required to provide cost and status updates for matters handled by retrospective insurance carriers except upon the written request of the cognizant Contracting Officer or Department Counsel.
§ 719.46
Are costs covered by this part subject to audit?
All costs covered by this part are subject to audit by the Department, its designated representative, or the Government Accountability Office.
See
§ 719.21.
§ 719.47
What happens when more than one contractor is a party to a matter?
(a) If more than one contractor is a party in a particular matter and the issues involved are similar for all the contractors, a single legal counsel designated by the General Counsel must
either represent all of the contractors or serve as lead counsel, when the rights of the contractors and the Government can be effectively represented by a single legal counsel, consistent with the standards for professional conduct applicable in the particular matter. Contractors may propose to the General Counsel their preference for the individual or law firm to perform as the lead counsel for a particular matter.
(b) If a contractor, having been afforded an opportunity to present its views concerning joint or lead representation, does not acquiesce in the designation of one retained legal counsel to represent a number of contractors, or serve as lead counsel, then the legal costs of such contractor are not reimbursable by the Department, unless the contractor demonstrates that it was reasonable for the contractor to incur such expenses.

# Subpart F—Department Counsel
§ 719.50
What authority does Department Counsel have?
(a) Department Counsel will receive written delegated authority from the contracting officer to serve as the contracting officer's representative for legal matters.
(b) Actions by Department Counsel may not exceed the responsibilities and limitations as delegated by the contracting officer. Delegated contracting officer representative authority shall not be construed to include the authority to execute or modify the contract or resolve any contract dispute arising under the contract. Additional discussion of the authority and limitation of contracting officers can be found at 48 CFR 1.602-1, and contracting officer's representatives at 48 CFR (DEAR) 942.270-1. The clause, Technical Direction, 48 CFR (DEAR) 952.242-70, also discusses the responsibilities and authority of a contracting officer's representative.
§ 719.51
What information must be forwarded to the General Counsel's Office concerning contractor submissions to Department Counsel under this part?
Department Counsel must submit through the General Counsel reporting system, the reviewed costs and status updates for all matters involving retained counsel, including but not limited to contractor litigation. The reports are to be received by the 15th day of the month following the end of each quarter of the fiscal year.
§ 719.52
What types of field actions must be coordinated with the General Counsel?
(a) Requests from contractors for exceptions or deviations from this part must be submitted to the contracting officer and Department Counsel, and approved by the General Counsel or his/her delegee.
(b) Requests from contractors for approval to initiate or defend litigation, or to appeal from adverse decisions, where legal issues of first impression, sensitive issues, issues of national significance to the Department or of broad applicability to the Government that might adversely impact its operations are involved must be coordinated by Department Counsel with the General Counsel or his/her delegee.
(c) Department Counsel must inform the General Counsel of any Significant Matter, as defined in this part, and must coordinate any action involving a Significant Matter with the General Counsel, or his/her delegee, as directed by the General Counsel or his/her delegee.
Pt. 719, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 719—Guidance for Legal Resource Management

# Management and Administration of Outside Legal Services
1.0 Alternative Dispute Resolution
2.0 Cost Allowability Issues
2.1 Underlying Cause for Incurrence of Costs
Attachment—Contractor Litigation and Legal Costs, Model Bill Format

# Management and Administration of Outside Legal Services
This guidance is intended to assist contractors, contracting officers and retained
legal counsel in managing the costs of outside legal services.

# 1.0 Alternative Dispute Resolution
Contractors are expected to evaluate all matters for appropriate alternative dispute resolution (ADR) at various stages of an issue in dispute, e.g., before a case is filed, during pre-discovery, after initial discovery and during pretrial. This evaluation should be done in coordination with the Department's ADR liaison if one has been established or appointed or Department Counsel if an ADR liaison has not been appointed. Contractors, contractor counsel, and Department Counsel are also encouraged to consult with the Department's Director of the Office of Conflict Prevention and Resolution. The Department anticipates that mediation will be the principal and most common method of alternative dispute resolution. Agreement to arbitrate should generally be consistent with the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (incorporated in part at 5 U.S.C. 571, et seq.) and Department guidance issued under that Act. When a decision to arbitrate is made, a statement fixing the maximum award amount should be agreed to in advance by the participants.

# 2.0 Cost Allowability Issues
A determination of cost reasonableness depends on a variety of considerations and circumstances. 48 CFR 31.201-3 establishes that no presumption of reasonableness is attached to the incurrence of costs by a contractor.

# 2.1 Underlying Cause for Incurrence of Costs
While 10 CFR part 719 provides procedures associated with incurring and monitoring legal costs, the evaluation of the reason for the incurrence of the legal costs, e.g., liability, fault or avoidability, is a separate issue. The reason for the contractor incurring costs may affect the allowability of the contractor's legal costs. In some cases, the final determination of allowability of legal costs cannot be made until a matter is fully resolved. In certain circumstances, contract and cost principle language may permit conditional reimbursement of costs pending the outcome of the legal matter. Whether the Department makes conditional reimbursements or withholds any payment pending the outcome, legal costs ultimately reimbursed by the Department must comply with the applicable cost principles, the terms of the contract, and part 719.

# Attachment—Contractor Litigation and Legal Costs, Model Bill Format

# 1. Model Bill Format
I—For Fees
Date of service
Description of service
Name or initials of attorney
Approved rate
Time charged
Amount (rate × time)
(See Note 1 to this table).
II—For Disbursements
Date
Description of
disbursement
Amount
(See Note 1 to this table).

# Note 1—Description of Service:
All fees must be itemized and described in sufficient detail and specificity to reflect the purpose and nature of the work performed (e.g., subject matter researched or discussed; names of participants of calls/meetings; type of documents reviewed).

# Note 2—Description of Disbursement:
Description should be in sufficient detail to determine that the disbursement expense was in accordance with all applicable Department policies on reimbursement of contractor legal costs and the terms of engagement between the contractor and the retained legal counsel. The date the expense was incurred or disbursed should be listed rather than the date the expense was processed. The following should be itemized: copy charge (i.e., number of pages times the price per page); fax charges (date, phone number and actual amount); overnight delivery (date and amount); electronic research (date and amount); extraordinary postage (e.g., bulk or certified mail); court reporters; expert witness fees; filing fees; outside copying or binding charges; temporary help (assuming prior approval).

# Note 3—Receipts:
Receipts for all expenses equal to or above $75 must be attached.
Pt. 725

# PART 725—PERMITS FOR ACCESS TO RESTRICTED DATA

# General Provisions
Sec.
725.1
Purpose.
725.2
Applicability.
725.3
Definitions.
725.4
Interpretations.
725.5
Communications.
725.6
Categories of available information.
725.7
Specific waivers.

# Applications
725.11
Applications.
725.12
Noneligibility.
725.13
Additional information.
725.14
Public inspection of applications.
725.15
Requirements for approval of applications.

# Permits
725.21
Issuance.
725.22
Scope of permit.
725.23
Terms and conditions of access.
725.24
Administration.
725.25
Term and renewal.
725.26
Assignment.
725.27
Amendment.
725.28
Action on application to renew or amend.
725.29
Suspension, revocation and termination of permits.
725.30
Exceptions and additional requirements.
725.31
Violations.
Appendix A to Part 725—Categories of Restricted Data Available

# Authority:
Sec. 161 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 68 Stat. 943, 42 U.S.C. 2201.

# Source:
41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 725 appear at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023.

# General Provisions
§ 725.1
Purpose.
This part establishes procedures and standards for the issuance of an Access Permit to any person subject to this part who requires access to Restricted Data applicable to civil uses of atomic energy for use in his business, trade or profession; provides for the amendment, renewal, suspension, termination and revocation of an Access Permit; and specifies the terms and conditions under which the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security will issue the Permit.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.2
Applicability.
The regulations in this part apply to any person within or under the jurisdiction of the United States who desires access to Restricted Data for use in his business, profession or trade.
§ 725.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Access Permit
means a permit, issued by the Administrator authorizing access by the named permittee to Restricted Data applicable to civil uses of atomic energy in accordance with the terms and conditions stated on the permit.
(b)
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919), including any amendments thereto.
(c)
Category
means a category of Restricted Data designated in appendix A to the regulations in this part.
(d)
Director of the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security
means the DOE official to whom the Secretary assigns the authority to develop policy and technical assistance; safety analysis; and organizational safety and security programs, or the Director's duly authorized representatives.
(e)
DOE
means the Department of Energy.
(f)
Permittee
means the holder of a permit issued pursuant to the regulations in this part.
(g)
Person
means (1) any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than DOE, any state or any political subdivision of, or any political entity within a state, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
(h)
Restricted Data
means all data concerning (1) design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons; (2) the production of special nuclear material; or (3) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Act.
(i)
Government Confidential Commercial Information
means sensitive commercial information not including Restricted Data, generated by the government, the release of which could put the government at a competitive disadvantage in providing enrichment services.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 30139, Aug. 13, 1987; 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41293, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.4
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security in writing no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of DOE other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon DOE.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.5
Communications.
All communications concerning this part should be addressed to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, EHSS-1, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave, SW., Washington, DC 20585.
[71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006, as amended at 88 FR 41293, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.6
Categories of available information.
For administrative purposes DOE has categorized Restricted Data which will be made available to permittees in the categories as set forth in appendix A to this part. Top Secret information; information pertaining to the design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons; and defense information other than Restricted Data are not included in these categories and will not be made available under this part.
§ 725.7
Specific waivers.
The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security may, upon application of any interested party, grant such waivers from the requirements of this part as he determines are authorized by law and will not constitute an undue risk to the common defense and security.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]

# Applications
§ 725.11
Applications.
(a) Any person desiring access to Restricted Data pursuant to this part should submit an application (Form 378), in triplicate, for an access permit to the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, EHSS-1, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave, SW., Washington, DC 20585.
(b) Where an individual desires access to Restricted Data for use in the performance of his duties as an employee, the application for an access permit must be filed in the name of his employer.
(c) Self-employed private consultants, desiring access to Restricted Data, must file the application in their own name for an individual access permit.
(d) Each application should contain the following information:
(1) Name of applicant (unincorporated subsidiaries or divisions of a corporation must apply in the name of the corporation);
(2) Address of applicant;
(3) Description of business or occupation of applicant; and
(4)(i) If applicant is an individual, state citizenship.
(ii) If applicant is a partnership, state name, citizenship and address of each partner and the principal location where the partnership does business.
(iii) If applicant is a corporation or an unincorporated association, state:
(A) The state where it is incorporated or organized and the principal location where it does business;
(B) The names, addresses and citizenship of its directors and of its principal officers;
(C) Whether it is owned, controlled or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or foreign government, and if so, give details.
(iv) If the applicant is acting as agent or representative of another person in filing the application, identify the principal and furnish information required under this subparagraph with respect to such principal;
(5) Total number of full-time employees;
(6) Classification of Restricted Data (Confidential or Secret) to which access is requested;
(7) Potential use of the Restricted Data in the applicant's business, profession or trade. If access to Secret Restricted Data is requested, list the specific categories by number and furnish
detailed reasons why such access within the specified categories is needed by the applicant. The need for Secret information should be stated by describing its proposed use in specific research, design, planning, construction, manufacturing, or operating projects; in activities under licenses issued by Nuclear Regulatory Commission; in studies or evaluations planned or under way; or in work or services to be performed for other organizations. In addition, if access to secret restricted data in category C-65, plutonium production, or restricted data in category C-24, isotope separation, is requested, the application should also include sufficient information to satisfy the requirements of § 725.15(b) (2) or (3), as the case may be.”
(8) Principal Location(s) at which Restricted Data will be used.
(e) Applications should be signed by a person authorized to sign for the applicant.
(f) Each application shall contain complete and accurate disclosure with respect to the real party or parties in interest and as to all other matters and things required to be disclosed.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41293, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.12
Noneligibility.
The following persons are not eligible to apply for an access permit:
(a) Corporations not organized under the laws of the United States or a political subdivision thereof.
(b) Any individual who is not a citizen of the United States.
(c) Any partnership not including among the partners one or more citizens of the United States; or any other unincorporated association not including one or more citizens of the United States among its principal officers.
(d) Any organization which is owned, controlled or dominated by the Government of, a citizen of, or an organization organized under the laws of a country or area listed as a Subgroup A country or destination in § 371.3 (15 CFR 371.3) of the Comprehensive Export Schedule of the United States Department of Commerce.
(e) Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who are not doing business within the United States.
§ 725.13
Additional information.
The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security may, at any time after the filing of the original application and before the termination of the permit, require additional information in order to enable the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security to determine whether the permit should be granted or denied or whether it should be modified or revoked.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.14
Public inspection of applications.
Applications and documents submitted to DOE in connection with applications may be made available for public inspection in accordance with the regulations contained in part 702 of this chapter.
§ 725.15
Requirements for approval of applications.
(a) An application for an access permit authorizing access to confidential restricted data in the categories set forth in appendix A of this part (except C-91 and C-24) will be approved only if the application demonstrates that the applicant has a potential use or application for such data in his business, trade, or profession and has filed a complete application form.
(b)(1) An application for an access permit authorizing access to restricted data in category C-24 or secret restricted data in other categories will be approved only if the applicant has a need for such data in his business, trade, or profession and has filed a complete application form.
(2) An application for an access permit authorizing access to Secret Restricted Data in category C-65 Plutonium Production will be approved only if the application demonstrates also that the applicant:
(i) Is directly engaged in a substantial effort to develop, design, build or operate a chemical processing plant or
other facility related to his participation in the peaceful uses of atomic energy for which such production rate and cost data are needed; or
(ii) Is furnishing to a permittee having access to C-65 under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, substantial scientific, engineering or other professional services to be used by said permittee in carrying out the activities for which said permittee received access to category C-65.
(3) An application for an access permit authorizing access to Restricted Data in category C-24, isotope separation—subcategory A or B—will be approved only if the application demonstrates also that the applicant:
(i) Possesses technical, managerial and financial qualifications demonstrating that the applicant is potentially capable of undertaking or participating significantly in the construction and/or operation of production or manufacturing facilities and offers reasonable assurance of adequacy of resources to carry on, alone or with others, uranium enrichment on a production basis or the large-scale manufacture or assembly of precision equipment systems, or is potentially capable of utilizing centrifuge machines in its business for uranium enrichment or for purposes other than uranium enrichment; and is not subject to foreign ownership, control, or influence; and
(A) For subcategory A, desires to determine its interest in participating significantly in a substantial effort to develop, design, build, and operate a uranium enrichment facility or a facility for the manufacture of uranium enrichment equipment.
(B) For subcategory B, proposes to (
1
) participate significantly in, or is directly participating significantly in, a substantial effort to evaluate alternative processes, develop, design, build, and operate a uranium enrichment facility or a facility for the manufacture of uranium enrichment equipment, or (
2
) utilize centrifuge machines and related equipment in its business for uranium enrichment or for purposes other than uranium enrichment, or
(ii) Is furnishing to a permittee having access to Category C-24 under the paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section substantial scientific, engineering, or other professional services to be used by said permittee in carrying out the activities for which said permittee received access to Category C-24.
(4) An application for an access permit authorizing access to Confidential and Secret Restricted Data in C-91, Nuclear Reactors for Rocket Propulsion, will be approved only if the application demonstrates also that the applicant:
(i) Possesses qualifications demonstrating that he is capable of making a contribution to research and development in the field of nuclear reactors for rocket propulsion and is directly engaged in or proposes to engage in a substantial research and development program in such field of work; or
(ii) Is engaged in or proposes to engage in a substantial study program in the field of nuclear reactors for rocket propulsion preparatory to the submission of a research and development proposal to DOE; or
(iii) Is furnishing to a permittee having access under paragraph (b)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section substantial scientific, engineering or other professional services to be used by that permittee in a study or research and development program for which said permittee received access.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 30139, Aug. 13, 1987]

# Permits
§ 725.21
Issuance.
(a) Upon a determination that an application meets the requirements of this regulation, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security will issue to the applicant an access permit on Form DOE 379.
(b) An Access Permit is not an access authorization. It does not authorize any individual not having an appropriate DOE access authorization to receive Restricted Data. See § 725.24 and part 1016 of this title.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.22
Scope of permit.
(a) All access permits will as a minimum authorize access, subject to the terms and conditions of the access permit to confidential restricted data in
all of the categories set forth in appendix A to this part, except C-91 and C-24.
(b) In addition, access permits may authorize access, subject to the terms and conditions of the access permit to such Secret Restricted Data as is included within the particular category or categories specified in the permit.
(c) In addition, access permits may authorize access, subject to the terms and conditions of the access permit, to such government confidential commercial information as is included within the particular category or categories specified in the permit.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 30139, Aug. 13, 1987]
§ 725.23
Terms and conditions of access.
(a) Neither the United States, nor DOE, nor any person acting on behalf of DOE makes any warranty or other representation, expressed or implied, (1) with respect to the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information made available pursuant to an access permit, or (2) that the use of any such information may not infringe privately owned rights.
(b) The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, on behalf of DOE, hereby waives such rights with respect to any invention or discovery as it may have pursuant to section 152 of the Act by reason of such invention or discovery having been made or conceived in the course of, in connection with, or resulting from access to Restricted Data received under the terms of an access permit. (Note provisions of § 725.23(d).)
(c) Each permittee shall:
(1) Comply with all applicable provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and with parts 810 and 1016 of this title and with all other applicable rules, regulations, and orders of DOE, including such rules, regulations, and orders as DOE may adopt or issue to effectuate the policies specified in the act directing DOE to strengthen free competition in private enterprise and avoid the creation or maintenance of a situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws.
(2) Be deemed to have waived all claims for damages under section 183 of title 35 U.S. Code by reason of the imposition of any secrecy order on any patent application and all claims for just compensation under section 173 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, with respect to any invention or discovery made or conceived in the course of, in connection with or as a result of access to Restricted Data received under the terms of the access permit;
(3) Be deemed to have waived any and all claims against the United States, DOE and all persons acting on behalf of DOE that might arise in connection with the use, by the applicant, of any and all information supplied by them pursuant to the access permit;
(4) Obtain and preserve in his files written agreements from all individuals who will have access to Restricted Data under his access permit. The agreement shall be as follows:
In consideration for receiving access to Restricted Data under the access permit issued by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security, I hereby agree to:
(a) Waive all claims for damages under section 183 of title 35 U.S. Code by reason of the imposition of any secrecy order on any patent application, and all claims for just compensation under section 173 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, with respect to any invention or discovery made or conceived in the course of, in connection with or resulting from access to Restricted Data received under the terms of the access permit issued to (insert the name of the holder of the access permit);
(b) Waive any and all claims against the United States, DOE, and all persons acting on behalf of DOE that might arise in connection with the use, by me, of any and all information supplied by them pursuant to the access permit issued to (insert the name of the holder of the access permit).
In case of an access permit authorizing access to restricted data in category C-24, isotope separation, the agreement shall also provide for such requirements as the permittee considers necessary for purposes of fulfilling its obligations under paragraph (d) of this section.
(5) Pay all established charges for personnel access authorizations, DOE consulting services, publication and reproduction of documents, and such other services as DOE may furnish in connection with the access permit.
(d) The following terms and conditions are applicable to an access permit authorizing access to restricted data in category C-24, isotope separation irrespective of whether access to DOE's restricted data information is desired:
(1) The permittee agrees to grant a nonexclusive license at reasonable royalties to the United States and, at the request of DOE, to domestic and foreign persons, to use in the production or enrichment of special nuclear material any U.S. patent or any U.S. patent application (otherwise in condition for allowance except for a secrecy order thereon) on any invention or discovery made or conceived by the permittee, its employees, or others engaged by the permittee in the course of the permittee's work under the access permit, or as a result of access to data or information made available by DOE.
(2) The permittee agrees to grant to the United States, and, at the request of DOE, to domestic and foreign persons, the right at reasonable royalties to use for research, development, or manufacturing programs for the production or enrichment of special nuclear material, any technical information or data, including economic evaluations thereof, of a proprietary nature developed by the permittee, its employees, or others engaged by the permittee in the course of the permittee's work under the access permit or as a result of access to data or information made available by DOE and not covered by a U.S. patent or U.S. patent application referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If DOE disseminates any such proprietary technical information or data in its possession to any of its contractors for use in any DOE research, development, production, or manufacturing programs, it will do so under contractual provisions pursuant to which the contractor would undertake to use this information only for the work under the pertinent DOE contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph, the permittee waives any claim against DOE for compensation or otherwise, in connection with any use or dissemination of information or data not specifically identified and claimed by the permittee as proprietary in a written notice to DOE at the time of the furnishing of the information or data to DOE. As used in this subparagraph, the term “technical information or data, including economic evaluations thereof, of a proprietary nature” means information or data which:
(i) Is not the property of the Government by virtue of any agreement;
(ii) Concerns the details of trade secrets or manufacturing processes which the permittee has protected from us by others; and
(iii)(A) Is specifically identified as proprietary at the time it is made available to DOE.
(B) Technical information or data shall not be deemed proprietary in nature whenever substantially the same technical information is available to DOE which has been prepared, developed or furnished as nonproprietary information by another source independently of the proprietary information and data furnished by the permittee.
(3) If the amount of reasonable royalties provided for in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section cannot be agreed upon, the permittee agrees that such amount shall be determined by the Administrator under the provisions of section 157c of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(4) In the event domestic commercial uranium enriching services are provided by persons other than an agency of the United States, the permittee agrees not to require the United States to pay the royalties provided for in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section.
(5) The acceptance, exercise, or use of the licenses or rights provided for in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section shall not prevent the Government, at any time, from contesting their validity, scope or enforceability.
(6) The permittee agrees, during the term of the access permit, to make quarterly reports to DOE in writing, in reasonable detail, respecting all technical information or data, including economic evaluations thereof, which the permittee or DOE considers may be of interest to DOE, including reports of patent applications on inventions or discoveries and of technical information and data of a proprietary nature. These reports will cover the results of
the permittee's work under the access permit or as a result of data or information made available by DOE. The foregoing provisions of this subparagraph shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section.
(7) The permittee agrees to make available to DOE, at all reasonable times during the term of the access permit, for inspection by DOE personnel, or by mutual agreement, others on behalf of DOE, all experimental equipment and technical information or data developed by the permittee, its employees, or others engaged by the permittee, in the course of the permittee's work under the access permit or as a result of data or information made available by DOE. The foregoing provision of this subparagraph shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section.
(8) The permittee agrees to pay such reasonable compensation as DOE may elect to charge for the commercial use of its inventions and discoveries including related data and technology and, except for an applicant qualifying for a permit pursuant to § 725.15(b)(3)(ii), agrees to pay $25,000 for an access permit authorizing access to restricted data in subcategory B.
(9) Except as may be otherwise authorized by DOE, the permittee agrees not to disseminate to persons not granted access by DOE, restricted data or government confidential commercial information made available to the permittee by DOE or restricted data developed by the permittee, its employees, or others engaged by the permittee in the course of the permittee's work under the access permit or as a result of data or information made available by DOE.
(10) The granting of an access permit does not constitute any assurance, direct or implied, that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will grant the permittee a license for a production facility or any other license.
(11) In the event the permittee is engaged by DOE to perform work for DOE in the field of the separation of isotopes, the permittee agrees to undertake such measures as DOE may require for the separation of its activities under the access permit from its work for DOE.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 30139, Aug. 13, 1987; 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.24
Administration.
With respect to each permit issued pursuant to the regulations in this part, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security will designate a DOE or National Nuclear Security Administration office which will:
(a) Process all personnel access authorizations requested in connection with the permit;
(b) Review the procedures submitted by the Applicant, in accordance with part 1016 of this title, for the safeguarding of Restricted Data; and
(c) Provide information to the permittee with respect to the sources and locations of Restricted Data available under this permit and to assist the permittee in other matters pertaining to the administration of his permit.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.25
Term and renewal.
(a) Each access permit will be issued for a two year term, unless otherwise stated in the permit.
(b) Applications for renewal shall be filed in accordance with § 725.11. Each renewal application must be complete, without reference to previous applications. In any case in which a permittee has filed a properly completed application for renewal more than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of his existing permit, such existing permit shall not expire until the application for a renewal has been finally acted upon by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.26
Assignment.
An access permit is nontransferable and nonassignable.
§ 725.27
Amendment.
An access permit may be amended from time to time upon application by the permittee. An application for amendment may be filed, in triplicate, in letter form and shall be signed by an individual authorized to sign on behalf of the applicant. The term of an access permit shall not be altered by an amendment thereto.
§ 725.28
Action on application to renew or amend.
In considering an application by a permittee to review or amend his permit, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security will apply the criteria set forth in § 725.15. Failure of an applicant to reply to an DOE request for additional information concerning an application for renewal or amendment within 60 days shall result in a rejection of the application without prejudice to resubmit a properly completed application at a later date.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.29
Suspension, revocation and termination of permits.
The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security may revoke or suspend any access permit for any material false statement in the application or in any report submitted to DOE pursuant to the regulations in this part or because of conditions or facts which would have warranted a refusal to grant the permit in the first instance, or for violation of any of the terms and conditions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 or rules, regulations or orders issued pursuant thereto. A permittee should request termination of his permit when he no longer requires Restricted Data for use in his business, trade or profession.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.30
Exceptions and additional requirements.
Notwithstanding any other provision in the regulations in this part, the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security may deny an application for an access permit or suspend or revoke any access permit, or incorporate additional conditions or requirements in any access permit, upon finding that such denial, revocation or the incorporation of such conditions and limitations is necessary or appropriate in the interest of the common defense and security or is otherwise in the public interest.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]
§ 725.31
Violations.
An injunction or other court order may be obtained prohibiting any violation of any provision of the Act or any regulation or order issued thereunder. Any person who willfully violates any provision of the Act or any regulation or order issued thereunder may be guilty of a crime and, upon conviction, may be punished by fine or imprisonment or both, as provided by law.
Pt. 725, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 725—Categories of Restricted Data Available
C-24 Isotope separation. This category is divided into subcategories A and B.
Subcategory A includes information in summary form concerning the status and potential of the gaseous diffusion and gas centrifuge processes for the separation of uranium isotopes.
Subcategory B includes information on the following:
a. Any aspect of separating one or more isotopes of uranium from a composition containing a mixture of isotopes of that element by the gas centrifuge or gaseous diffusion processes.
b. Design, construction, and operation of any plant, facility or device capable of separating by the gas centrifuge or gaseous diffusion processes one or more isotopes of uranium from a composition containing a mixture of isotopes of that element, including means and methods of transporting materials from one to another device.
C-44 Nuclear Technology. This category includes classified technical information concerning nuclear technology. It may contain information on the following:
a. Materials, including metals, ceramics, organic and inorganic compounds. Included are such technical areas as the technology and fabrication of fuel elements, corrosion studies, cladding techniques and radiation studies.
b. Chemistry, chemical engineering and radiochemistry of all the elements and their compounds. Included are techniques and processes of chemical separations, radioactive waste handling and feed material processing.
c. Reactor physics, engineering and technology including theory, design, criticality studies and operation of reactors, reactor systems and reactor components.
d. Reserved.
e. Lithium isotope separation technology. This subcategory includes classified technical information on the separation of lithium isotopes by using counter-current flows of lithium amalgam and aqueous lithium hydroxide solution in packed columns. Not included is information regarding plant design and operating conditions from which total production rates or design capacity of the lithium isotope separation plant (Colex) in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, can be inferred. In addition to the other requirements of this part, access permits for Restricted Data in this subcategory will be approved, provided the permittee:
1. Demonstrates that it is not a corporation or entity owned, controlled or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or a foreign government, and
2. Agrees to insertion in his access permit of the terms and conditions:
(i) Set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 725.23 of this part;
(ii) Set forth in paragraph (c) of § 725.23 of this part, amended by deleting the phrase “category C-24, isotope separation,” and inserting in lieu thereof the phrase “subcategory C-44e, lithium isotope separation technology”;
(iii) Set forth in paragraph (d) of § 725.23 of this part, amended by:
(A) Deleting the phrases “production or enrichment of special nuclear material” and “separation of isotopes” wherever they appear, and inserting in lieu thereof the phrase “separation of isotopes of lithium”;
(B) Deleting the phrase “domestic commercial uranium enriching services are provided by,” and inserting in lieu thereof the phrase “domestic lithium isotope separation capacity becomes available to.”
This category does not include information which reveals or from which can be calculated actual or planned (as distinguished from design) capacities, production rates and unit costs for the plutonium production program.
C-65 Plutonium Production. This category includes information on reactor, fuel element and separations technology which reveals or from which can be calculated actual or planned (as distinguished from design) capacities, production rates and unit costs for the Hanford and Savannah River production facilities.
Technology which does not reveal or enable calculation of production rates and unit costs of Hanford or Savannah River production facilities is categorized in C-44 Nuclear Technology.
C-90 Nuclear Reactors for Ram-Jet Propulsion. This category includes information on:
a. Programs pertaining to the development of nuclear reactors for application to ram-jet propulsion systems including theory and/or design, test philosophy procedures and/or results.
b. Fabrication technology and evaluation of performance or characteristics of materials or components for such reactors.
c. Controls, control systems and instrumentation relating to the design or technology of such reactors.
d. Data pertaining to heat transfer, propellant kinetics or corrosion and erosion of materials under conditions of high temperature, high gas flows or other environmental conditions characteristic of ram-jet propulsion systems.
This category does not include information on:
a. Design details of weapons systems or nuclear warheads.
b. Military operational techniques or characteristics.
c. General aspects of nuclear ram-jet missiles, such as payload, aerodynamic characteristics, guidance systems, physical size, gross weight, thrust and information of this kind which is associated with utilization of a nuclear ram-jet propulsion system.
C-91 Nuclear Reactors for Rocket Propulsion. This category includes information on:
a. Programs pertaining to nuclear reactors for rocket propulsion, i.e., missile propulsion, theory and/design, test philosophy procedures and/or results.
b. Design, fabrication technology and evaluation of performance or characteristics of material, components, or subsystems or nuclear rocket reactors.
c. Controls, control systems and instrumentation relating to the design or technology of rocket reactor systems.
d. Data pertaining to heat transfer, propellant kinetics or corrosion and erosion of rocket reactor system materials under conditions of high temperature, high gas flows, or other environmental conditions characteristic of rocket reactors.
This category does not include information on:
a. Design details of weapons systems or nuclear warheads.
b. Military operational techniques or characteristics.
c. General aspects of payload and aerodynamic characteristics.
d. Design details and development, information of components and subsystems of the
nuclear rocket engine other than that associated with the reactor system.
C-92 Systems for Nuclear Auxiliary Power (SNAP). This category includes information on:
a. Isotopic SNAP Program, including theory, design, research and development, fabrication, test procedures and results for the device, including power conversion device and the fuels used.
b. Reactor SNAP Program, including theory, design, research and development, fabrication, test procedures and results for the reactor, including the directly associated power conversion device when developed by DOE.
This category does not include that technical and scientific data developed under the SNAP Advanced Concept Program which should be reported in C-93.
C-93 Advanced Concepts for Future Application.
C-93a Reactor Experiments. This category includes classified technical information developed in the pursuit of work on new or advanced concepts of reactors or components which DOE considers essential to future growth or for general application to future generations of reactors. Classified information developed in the pursuit of work on the lithium cooled reactor experiment is an example of the type of information to be reported in this category, i.e., information resulting from an experimental reactor project or component development which may have many future applications but which is not currently being pursued to meet the specific needs of an approved requirement for which other information categories have been provided. For example, classified technical information developed in the pursuit of work on Naval, Ram-Jet or Rocket nuclear reactors would not be reported here but under their respective specific categories. This category will include classified technical information on the following:
a. Theory, design, and performance, either estimated or actual.
b. Design details, composition and performance characteristics of major components (e.g., fuel media, reflectors, moderators, heat exchangers, pressure shells or containment devices, control rods, conversion devices, instrumentation and shielding).
c. Material (metals, ceramics and compounds) development, alloying, cladding, corrosion, erosion, radiation studies and fabrication techniques.
d. Chemistry, including chemical engineering, processes and techniques. Reactor physics, engineering and criticality studies.
C-93b Conversion Devices. This category includes classified technical information developed in the pursuit of studies, designs, research and development, fabrication and operation of any energy conversion device to be used with nuclear energy sources which is not being applied to a specific system development project.
C-94 Military Compact Reactor (MCR). This category includes classified technical information on the actual or planned Military Compact Reactor and its components developed in the pursuit of studies, designs, research and development, fabrication, and operation of the reactor system or its components.
Examples of the areas of information included are:
a. Reactor core physics.
b. Fuel elements and fuel element components.
c. Moderator and reflector details.
d. Data on primary coolant system.
e. Radiation shield.
f. Controls and instrumentation.
This category does not include information on military operational characteristics or techniques.
[41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 37939, June 29, 1979]
Pt. 727

# PART 727—CONSENT FOR ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY COMPUTERS
Sec.
727.1
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
727.2
What are the definitions of the terms used in this part?
727.3
To whom does this part apply?
727.4
Is there any expectation of privacy applicable to a DOE computer?
727.5
What acknowledgment and consent is required for access to information on DOE computers?
727.6
What are the obligations of a DOE contractor?

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7101,
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 2011,
et. seq.;
50 U.S.C. 2425, 2483; E.O. No. 12958, 60 FR 19825, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 333; and E.O. 12968, 60 FR 40245, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 391.

# Source:
71 FR 40884, July 19, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 727.1
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
(a) The purpose of this part is to establish minimum requirements applicable to each individual granted access to a DOE computer or to information on a DOE computer, including a requirement for written consent to access by an authorized investigative agency to any DOE computer used in
the performance of the individual's duties during the term of that individual's employment and for a period of three years thereafter.
(b) Section 727.4 of this part also applies to any person who uses a DOE computer by sending an e-mail message to such a computer.
§ 727.2
What are the definitions of the terms used in this part?
For purposes of this part:
Authorized investigative agency
means an agency authorized by law or regulation to conduct a counterintelligence investigation or investigations of persons who are proposed for access to classified information to ascertain whether such persons satisfy the criteria for obtaining and retaining access to such information.
Computer
means desktop computers, portable computers, computer networks (including the DOE network and local area networks at or controlled by DOE organizations), network devices, automated information systems, or other related computer equipment owned by, leased, or operated on behalf of the DOE.
DOE
means the Department of Energy, including the National Nuclear Security Administration.
DOE computer
means any computer owned by, leased, or operated on behalf of the DOE.
Individual
means an employee of DOE or a DOE contractor, or any other person who has been granted access to a DOE computer or to information on a DOE computer, and does not include a member of the public who sends an e-mail message to a DOE computer or who obtains information available to the public on DOE Web sites.
User
means any person, including any individual or member of the public, who sends information to or receives information from a DOE computer.
§ 727.3
To whom does this part apply?
(a) This part applies to DOE employees, DOE contractors, DOE contractor and subcontractor employees, and any other individual who has been granted access to a DOE computer or to information on a DOE computer.
(b) Section 727.4 of this part also applies to any person who uses a DOE computer by sending an e-mail message to such computer.
§ 727.4
Is there any expectation of privacy applicable to a DOE computer?
Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including any provision of law enacted by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986), no user of a DOE computer shall have any expectation of privacy in the use of that DOE computer.
§ 727.5
What acknowledgment and consent is required for access to information on DOE computers?
An individual may not be granted access to information on a DOE computer unless:
(a) The individual has acknowledged in writing that the individual has no expectation of privacy in the use of a DOE computer; and
(b) The individual has consented in writing to permit access by an authorized investigative agency to any DOE computer used during the period of that individual's access to information on a DOE computer and for a period of three years thereafter.
§ 727.6
What are the obligations of a DOE contractor?
(a) A DOE contractor must ensure that neither its employees nor the employees of any of its subcontractors has access to information on a DOE computer unless the DOE contractor has obtained a written acknowledgment and consent by each contractor or subcontractor employee that complies with the requirements of § 727.5 of this part.
(b) A DOE contractor must maintain a file of original written acknowledgments and consents executed by its employees and all subcontractors employees that comply with the requirements of § 727.5 of this part.
(c) Upon demand by the cognizant DOE contracting officer, a DOE contractor must provide an opportunity for a DOE official to inspect the file compiled under this section and to copy any portion of the file.
(d) If a DOE contractor violates the requirements of this section with regard to a DOE computer with Restricted Data or other classified information, then the DOE contractor may be assessed a civil penalty or a reduction in fee pursuant to section 234B of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2282b).
Pt. 733

# PART 733—ALLEGATIONS OF RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
Sec.
733.1
Purpose.
733.2
Scope.
733.3
Definitions.
733.4
Research misconduct requirements.
733.5
Allegations received by DOE.
733.6
Consultation with the DOE Office of the Inspector General.
733.7
Referral to the contracting officer.
733.8
Contracting officer procedures.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201; 7254; 7256; 7101
et seq.;
50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.

# Source:
70 FR 37014, June 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 733.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth a general statement of policy on the treatment of allegations of research misconduct consistent with Federal Policy on Research Misconduct established by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy on December 6, 2000 (65 FR 76260-76264).
§ 733.2
Scope.
This part applies to allegations of research misconduct with regard to scientific research conducted under a Department of Energy contract or an agreement.
§ 733.3
Definitions.
The following terms used in this part are defined as follows:
Contract
is defined in 2 CFR 200.22.
DOE
means the U.S. Department of Energy (including the National Nuclear Security Administration).
DOE Element
means a major division of DOE, usually headed by a Presidential appointee, which has a delegation of authority to carry out activities by entering into contracts or financial assistance agreements.
Fabrication
means making up data or results and recording or reporting them.
Falsification
means manipulating research materials, equipment, or processes, or changing or omitting data or results such that the research is not accurately represented in the research record.
Financial assistance agreement
means an agreement the primary purpose of which is to provide appropriated funds to stimulate an activity, including but not limited to, grants and cooperative agreements pursuant to 2 CFR part 200 as amended by 2 CFR part 910.
Finding of research misconduct
means a determination, based on a preponderance of the evidence, that research misconduct has occurred. Such a finding requires a conclusion that there has been a significant departure from accepted practices of the relevant research community and that it be knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly committed.
Plagiarism
means the appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.
Research
means all basic, applied, and demonstration research in all fields of science, engineering, and mathematics, such as research in economics, education, linguistics, medicine, psychology, social sciences, statistics, and research involving human subjects or animals.
Research misconduct
means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results, but does not include honest error or differences of opinion.
Research record
means the record of all data or results that embody the facts resulting from scientists' inquiries, including, but not limited to, research proposals, laboratory records, both physical and electronic, progress reports, abstracts, theses, oral presentations, internal reports, and journal articles
[70 FR 37014, June 28, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 76047, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 733.4
Research misconduct requirements.
DOE intends to apply the research misconduct policy set forth in 65 FR 76260-76264 by including appropriate research misconduct requirements in contracts and financial assistance awards that make contractors and financial recipients primarily responsible for implementing the policy in dealing with allegations of research misconduct in connection with the proposal, performance or review of research for DOE .
§ 733.5
Allegations received by DOE.
If DOE receives directly a written allegation of research misconduct with regard to research under a DOE contract or financial assistance agreement, DOE will refer the allegation for processing to the DOE Element responsible for the contract or financial assistance agreement.
§ 733.6
Consultation with the DOE Office of the Inspector General.
Upon receipt of an allegation of research misconduct, the DOE Element shall consult with the DOE Office of the Inspector General which will determine whether that office will elect to investigate the allegation.
§ 733.7
Referral to the contracting officer.
If the DOE Office of the Inspector General declines to investigate an allegation of research misconduct, the DOE Element should forward the allegation to the contracting officer responsible for administration of the contract or financial assistance agreement to which the allegation pertains.
§ 733.8
Contracting officer procedures.
Upon receipt of an allegation of research misconduct by referral under § 733.7, the contracting officer should, by notification of the contractor or financial assistance recipient:
(a) Require the contractor or the financial assistance recipient to act on the allegation consistent with the Research Misconduct requirements in the contract or financial assistance award to which the allegation pertains; or
(b) In the event the contractor or the financial assistance recipient is unable to act:
(1) Designate an appropriate DOE program to conduct an investigation to develop a complete factual record and an examination of such record leading to either a finding of research misconduct and an identification of appropriate remedies or a determination that no further action is warranted; and
(2) Make the appropriate findings consistent with the Research Misconduct requirements contained in the contract or financial assistance award, in order to act in lieu of the contractor or financial assistance recipient.
Pt. 745

# PART 745—PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
Sec.
745.101
To what does this policy apply?
745.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
745.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
745.104
Exempt research.
745.105-745.106
[Reserved]
745.107
IRB membership.
745.108
IRB functions and operations.
745.109
IRB review of research.
745.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
745.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
745.112
Review by institution.
745.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
745.114
Cooperative research.
745.115
IRB records.
745.116
General requirements for informed consent.
745.117
Documentation of informed consent.
745.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
745.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
745.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
745.121
[Reserved]
745.122
Use of Federal funds.
745.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
745.124
Conditions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 42 U.S.C. 7254; 42 U.S.C. 300v-1(b).

# Source:
82 FR 7269, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 745.101
To what does this policy apply?
(a) Except as detailed in § 745.104, this policy applies to all research involving human subjects conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by any Federal department or agency that takes appropriate administrative action to make the policy applicable to such research. This includes research conducted by Federal civilian employees or military personnel, except that each department or agency head may adopt such procedural modifications as may be appropriate from an administrative standpoint. It also includes research conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal Government outside the United States. Institutions that are engaged in research described in this paragraph and institutional review boards (IRBs) reviewing research that is subject to this policy must comply with this policy.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Department or agency heads retain final judgment as to whether a particular activity is covered by this policy and this judgment shall be exercised consistent with the ethical principles of the Belmont Report.
62
62
The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research.- Belmont Report. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 1979.
(d) Department or agency heads may require that specific research activities or classes of research activities conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal department or agency but not otherwise covered by this policy comply with some or all of the requirements of this policy.
(e) Compliance with this policy requires compliance with pertinent federal laws or regulations that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(f) This policy does not affect any state or local laws or regulations (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(g) This policy does not affect any foreign laws or regulations that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections to human subjects of research.
(h) When research covered by this policy takes place in foreign countries, procedures normally followed in the foreign countries to protect human subjects may differ from those set forth in this policy. In these circumstances, if a department or agency head determines that the procedures prescribed by the institution afford protections that are at least equivalent to those provided in this policy, the department or agency head may approve the substitution of the foreign procedures in lieu of the procedural requirements provided in this policy. Except when otherwise required by statute, Executive Order, or the department or agency head, notices of these actions as they occur will be published in the
Federal Register
or will be otherwise published as provided in department or agency procedures.
(i) Unless otherwise required by law, department or agency heads may waive the applicability of some or all of the provisions of this policy to specific research activities or classes of research activities otherwise covered by this policy, provided the alternative procedures to be followed are consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Except when otherwise required by statute or Executive Order, the department or agency head shall forward advance notices of these actions to the Office for Human Research Protections, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), or any successor office, or to the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency, and shall also publish them in the
Federal Register
or in such other manner as provided in department or agency procedures. The waiver notice must include a statement that identifies the conditions under which the waiver will be applied
and a justification as to why the waiver is appropriate for the research, including how the decision is consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Id.
(j) Federal guidance on the requirements of this policy shall be issued only after consultation, for the purpose of harmonization (to the extent appropriate), with other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, unless such consultation is not feasible.
(k) [Reserved]
(l) Compliance dates and transition provisions:
(1)
Pre-2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
pre-2018 Requirements
means this subpart as published in the 2016 edition of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
2018 Requirements
means the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects requirements contained in this part. The general compliance date for the 2018 Requirements is January 21, 2019. The compliance date for § 745.114(b) (cooperative research) of the 2018 Requirements is January 20, 2020.
(3)
Research subject to pre-2018 requirements.
The pre-2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research, unless the research is transitioning to comply with the 2018 Requirements in accordance with paragraph (l)(4) of this section:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB under the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review was waived pursuant to § 745.101(i) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination was made that the research was exempt under § 745.101(b) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019.
(4)
Transitioning research.
If, on or after July 19, 2018, an institution planning or engaged in research otherwise covered by paragraph (l)(3) of this section determines that such research instead will transition to comply with the 2018 Requirements, the institution or an IRB must document and date such determination.
(i) If the determination to transition is documented between July 19, 2018, and January 20, 2019, the research shall:
(A) Beginning on the date of such documentation through January 20, 2019, comply with the pre-2018 Requirements, except that the research shall comply with the following:
(
1
) Section 745.102(l) of the 2018 Requirements (definition of research) (instead of § 745.102(d) of the pre-2018 Requirements);
(
2
) Section 745.103(d) of the 2018 Requirements (revised certification requirement that eliminates IRB review of application or proposal) (instead of § 745.103(f) of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(
3
) Section 745.109(f)(1)(i) and (iii) of the 2018 Requirements (exceptions to mandated continuing review) (instead of § 745.103(b), as related to the requirement for continuing review, and in addition to § 745.109, of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(B) Beginning on January 21, 2019, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(ii) If the determination to transition is documented on or after January 21, 2019, the research shall, beginning on the date of such documentation, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(5)
Research subject to 2018 Requirements.
The 2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB on or after January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review is waived pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section on or after January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination is made that the research is exempt on or after January 21, 2019.
(m) Severability: Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to continue to give maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision shall be severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder
thereof or the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other dissimilar circumstances.
[82 FR 7269, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 28511, June 19, 2018]
§ 745.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
(a)
Certification
means the official notification by the institution to the supporting Federal department or agency component, in accordance with the requirements of this policy, that a research project or activity involving human subjects has been reviewed and approved by an IRB in accordance with an approved assurance.
(b)
Clinical trial
means a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes.
(c)
Department or agency head
means the head of any Federal department or agency, for example, the Secretary of HHS, and any other officer or employee of any Federal department or agency to whom the authority provided by these regulations to the department or agency head has been delegated.
(d)
Federal department or agency
refers to a federal department or agency (the department or agency itself rather than its bureaus, offices or divisions) that takes appropriate administrative action to make this policy applicable to the research involving human subjects it conducts, supports, or otherwise regulates (
e.g.,
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Defense, or the Central Intelligence Agency).
(e)(1)
Human subject
means a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research:
(i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Intervention
includes both physical procedures by which information or biospecimens are gathered (
e.g.,
venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject or the subject's environment that are performed for research purposes.
(3)
Interaction
includes communication or interpersonal contact between investigator and subject.
(4)
Private information
includes information about behavior that occurs in a context in which an individual can reasonably expect that no observation or recording is taking place, and information that has been provided for specific purposes by an individual and that the individual can reasonably expect will not be made public (
e.g.,
a medical record).
(5)
Identifiable private information
is private information for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the information.
(6)
An identifiable biospecimen
is a biospecimen for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the biospecimen.
(7) Federal departments or agencies implementing this policy shall:
(i) Upon consultation with appropriate experts (including experts in data matching and re-identification), reexamine the meaning of “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, and “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This reexamination shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. If appropriate and permitted by law, such Federal departments and agencies may alter the interpretation of these terms, including through the use of guidance.
(ii) Upon consultation with appropriate experts, assess whether there are analytic technologies or techniques that should be considered by investigators to generate “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph
(e)(5) of this section, or an “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This assessment shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. Any such technologies or techniques will be included on a list of technologies or techniques that produce identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This list will be published in the
Federal Register
after notice and an opportunity for public comment. The Secretary, HHS, shall maintain the list on a publicly accessible Web site.
(f)
Institution
means any public or private entity, or department or agency (including federal, state, and other agencies).
(g)
IRB
means an institutional review board established in accord with and for the purposes expressed in this policy.
(h)
IRB approval
means the determination of the IRB that the research has been reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the constraints set forth by the IRB and by other institutional and federal requirements.
(i)
Legally authorized representative
means an individual or judicial or other body authorized under applicable law to consent on behalf of a prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research. If there is no applicable law addressing this issue,
legally authorized representative
means an individual recognized by institutional policy as acceptable for providing consent in the nonresearch context on behalf of the prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research.
(j)
Minimal risk
means that the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
(k)
Public health authority
means an agency or authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision of a state or territory, an Indian tribe, or a foreign government, or a person or entity acting under a grant of authority from or contract with such public agency, including the employees or agents of such public agency or its contractors or persons or entities to whom it has granted authority, that is responsible for public health matters as part of its official mandate.
(l)
Research
means a systematic investigation, including research development, testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. Activities that meet this definition constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program that is considered research for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research activities. For purposes of this part, the following activities are deemed not to be research:
(1) Scholarly and journalistic activities (
e.g.,
oral history, journalism, biography, literary criticism, legal research, and historical scholarship), including the collection and use of information, that focus directly on the specific individuals about whom the information is collected.
(2) Public health surveillance activities, including the collection and testing of information or biospecimens, conducted, supported, requested, ordered, required, or authorized by a public health authority. Such activities are limited to those necessary to allow a public health authority to identify, monitor, assess, or investigate potential public health signals, onsets of disease outbreaks, or conditions of public health importance (including trends, signals, risk factors, patterns in diseases, or increases in injuries from using consumer products). Such activities include those associated with providing timely situational awareness and priority setting during the course of an event or crisis that threatens public health (including natural or man-made disasters).
(3) Collection and analysis of information, biospecimens, or records by or for a criminal justice agency for activities authorized by law or court order
solely for criminal justice or criminal investigative purposes.
(4) Authorized operational activities (as determined by each agency) in support of intelligence, homeland security, defense, or other national security missions.
(m)
Written,
or
in writing,
for purposes of this part, refers to writing on a tangible medium (
e.g.,
paper) or in an electronic format.
§ 745.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
(a) Each institution engaged in research that is covered by this policy, with the exception of research eligible for exemption under § 745.104, and that is conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, shall provide written assurance satisfactory to the department or agency head that it will comply with the requirements of this policy. In lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, individual department or agency heads shall accept the existence of a current assurance, appropriate for the research in question, on file with the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, and approved for Federal-wide use by that office. When the existence of an HHS-approved assurance is accepted in lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, reports (except certification) required by this policy to be made to department and agency heads shall also be made to the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office. Federal departments and agencies will conduct or support research covered by this policy only if the institution has provided an assurance that it will comply with the requirements of this policy, as provided in this section, and only if the institution has certified to the department or agency head that the research has been reviewed and approved by an IRB (if such certification is required by § 745.103(d)).
(b) The assurance shall be executed by an individual authorized to act for the institution and to assume on behalf of the institution the obligations imposed by this policy and shall be filed in such form and manner as the department or agency head prescribes.
(c) The department or agency head may limit the period during which any assurance shall remain effective or otherwise condition or restrict the assurance.
(d) Certification is required when the research is supported by a Federal department or agency and not otherwise waived under § 745.101(i) or exempted under § 745.104. For such research, institutions shall certify that each proposed research study covered by the assurance and this section has been reviewed and approved by the IRB. Such certification must be submitted as prescribed by the Federal department or agency component supporting the research. Under no condition shall research covered by this section be initiated prior to receipt of the certification that the research has been reviewed and approved by the IRB.
(e) For nonexempt research involving human subjects covered by this policy (or exempt research for which limited IRB review takes place pursuant to § 745.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8)) that takes place at an institution in which IRB oversight is conducted by an IRB that is not operated by the institution, the institution and the organization operating the IRB shall document the institution's reliance on the IRB for oversight of the research and the responsibilities that each entity will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy (
e.g.,
in a written agreement between the institution and the IRB, by implementation of an institution-wide policy directive providing the allocation of responsibilities between the institution and an IRB that is not affiliated with the institution, or as set forth in a research protocol).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.104
Exempt research.
(a) Unless otherwise required by law or by department or agency heads, research activities in which the only involvement of human subjects will be in one or more of the categories in paragraph (d) of this section are exempt from the requirements of this policy,
except that such activities must comply with the requirements of this section and as specified in each category.
(b) Use of the exemption categories for research subject to the requirements of subparts B, C, and D: Application of the exemption categories to research subject to the requirements of 45 CFR part 46, subparts B, C, and D, is as follows:
(1)
Subpart B.
Each of the exemptions at this section may be applied to research subject to subpart B if the conditions of the exemption are met.
(2)
Subpart C.
The exemptions at this section do not apply to research subject to subpart C, except for research aimed at involving a broader subject population that only incidentally includes prisoners.
(3)
Subpart D.
The exemptions at paragraphs (d)(1), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of this section may be applied to research subject to subpart D if the conditions of the exemption are met. Paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section only may apply to research subject to subpart D involving educational tests or the observation of public behavior when the investigator(s) do not participate in the activities being observed. Paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section may not be applied to research subject to subpart D.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Except as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the following categories of human subjects research are exempt from this policy:
(1) Research, conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings, that specifically involves normal educational practices that are not likely to adversely impact students' opportunity to learn required educational content or the assessment of educators who provide instruction. This includes most research on regular and special education instructional strategies, and research on the effectiveness of or the comparison among instructional techniques, curricula, or classroom management methods.
(2) Research that only includes interactions involving educational tests (cognitive, diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview procedures, or observation of public behavior (including visual or auditory recording) if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(ii) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(iii) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 745.111(a)(7).
(3)(i) Research involving benign behavioral interventions in conjunction with the collection of information from an adult subject through verbal or written responses (including data entry) or audiovisual recording if the subject prospectively agrees to the intervention and information collection and at least one of the following criteria is met:
(A) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(B) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(C) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 745.111(a)(7).
(ii) For the purpose of this provision, benign behavioral interventions are brief in duration, harmless, painless,
not physically invasive, not likely to have a significant adverse lasting impact on the subjects, and the investigator has no reason to think the subjects will find the interventions offensive or embarrassing. Provided all such criteria are met, examples of such benign behavioral interventions would include having the subjects play an online game, having them solve puzzles under various noise conditions, or having them decide how to allocate a nominal amount of received cash between themselves and someone else.
(iii) If the research involves deceiving the subjects regarding the nature or purposes of the research, this exemption is not applicable unless the subject authorizes the deception through a prospective agreement to participate in research in circumstances in which the subject is informed that he or she will be unaware of or misled regarding the nature or purposes of the research.
(4) Secondary research for which consent is not required: Secondary research uses of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are publicly available;
(ii) Information, which may include information about biospecimens, is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, the investigator does not contact the subjects, and the investigator will not re-identify subjects;
(iii) The research involves only information collection and analysis involving the investigator's use of identifiable health information when that use is regulated under 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, subparts A and E, for the purposes of “health care operations” or “research” as those terms are defined at 45 CFR 164.501 or for “public health activities and purposes” as described under 45 CFR 164.512(b); or
(iv) The research is conducted by, or on behalf of, a Federal department or agency using government-generated or government-collected information obtained for nonresearch activities, if the research generates identifiable private information that is or will be maintained on information technology that is subject to and in compliance with section 208(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002, 44 U.S.C. 3501 note, if all of the identifiable private information collected, used, or generated as part of the activity will be maintained in systems of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and, if applicable, the information used in the research was collected subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
(5) Research and demonstration projects that are conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, or otherwise subject to the approval of department or agency heads (or the approval of the heads of bureaus or other subordinate agencies that have been delegated authority to conduct the research and demonstration projects), and that are designed to study, evaluate, improve, or otherwise examine public benefit or service programs, including procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs, possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures, or possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs. Such projects include, but are not limited to, internal studies by Federal employees, and studies under contracts or consulting arrangements, cooperative agreements, or grants. Exempt projects also include waivers of otherwise mandatory requirements using authorities such as sections 1115 and 1115A of the Social Security Act, as amended.
(i) Each Federal department or agency conducting or supporting the research and demonstration projects must establish, on a publicly accessible Federal Web site or in such other manner as the department or agency head may determine, a list of the research and demonstration projects that the Federal department or agency conducts or supports under this provision. The research or demonstration project must be published on this list prior to commencing the research involving human subjects.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies:
(i) If wholesome foods without additives are consumed, or
(ii) If a food is consumed that contains a food ingredient at or below the level and for a use found to be safe, or agricultural chemical or environmental contaminant at or below the level found to be safe, by the Food and Drug Administration or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(7) Storage or maintenance for secondary research for which broad consent is required: Storage or maintenance of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for potential secondary research use if an IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determinations required by § 745.111(a)(8).
(8) Secondary research for which broad consent is required: Research involving the use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for secondary research use, if the following criteria are met:
(i) Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens was obtained in accordance with § 745.116(a)(1) through (4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Documentation of informed consent or waiver of documentation of consent was obtained in accordance with § 745.117;
(iii) An IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determination required by § 745.111(a)(7) and makes the determination that the research to be conducted is within the scope of the broad consent referenced in paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section; and (iv) The investigator does not include returning individual research results to subjects as part of the study plan. This provision does not prevent an investigator from abiding by any legal requirements to return individual research results.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§§ 745.105-745.106
[Reserved]
§ 745.107
IRB membership.
(a) Each IRB shall have at least five members, with varying backgrounds to promote complete and adequate review of research activities commonly conducted by the institution. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified through the experience and expertise of its members (professional competence), and the diversity of its members, including race, gender, and cultural backgrounds and sensitivity to such issues as community attitudes, to promote respect for its advice and counsel in safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects. The IRB shall be able to ascertain the acceptability of proposed research in terms of institutional commitments (including policies and resources) and regulations, applicable law, and standards of professional conduct and practice. The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in these areas. If an IRB regularly reviews research that involves a category of subjects that is vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, consideration shall be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are knowledgeable about and experienced in working with these categories of subjects.
(b) Each IRB shall include at least one member whose primary concerns are in scientific areas and at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas.
(c) Each IRB shall include at least one member who is not otherwise affiliated with the institution and who is not part of the immediate family of a person who is affiliated with the institution.
(d) No IRB may have a member participate in the IRB's initial or continuing review of any project in which the member has a conflicting interest, except to provide information requested by the IRB.
(e) An IRB may, in its discretion, invite individuals with competence in special areas to assist in the review of issues that require expertise beyond or in addition to that available on the
IRB. These individuals may not vote with the IRB.
§ 745.108
IRB functions and operations.
(a) In order to fulfill the requirements of this policy each IRB shall:
(1) Have access to meeting space and sufficient staff to support the IRB's review and recordkeeping duties;
(2) Prepare and maintain a current list of the IRB members identified by name; earned degrees; representative capacity; indications of experience such as board certifications or licenses sufficient to describe each member's chief anticipated contributions to IRB deliberations; and any employment or other relationship between each member and the institution, for example, full-time employee, part-time employee, member of governing panel or board, stockholder, paid or unpaid consultant;
(3) Establish and follow written procedures for:
(i) Conducting its initial and continuing review of research and for reporting its findings and actions to the investigator and the institution;
(ii) Determining which projects require review more often than annually and which projects need verification from sources other than the investigators that no material changes have occurred since previous IRB review; and
(iii) Ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB of proposed changes in a research activity, and for ensuring that investigators will conduct the research activity in accordance with the terms of the IRB approval until any proposed changes have been reviewed and approved by the IRB, except when necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the subject.
(4) Establish and follow written procedures for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB; appropriate institutional officials; the department or agency head; and the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, or the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency of
(i) Any unanticipated problems involving risks to subjects or others or any serious or continuing noncompliance with this policy or the requirements or determinations of the IRB; and
(ii) Any suspension or termination of IRB approval.
(b) Except when an expedited review procedure is used (as described in § 745.110), an IRB must review proposed research at convened meetings at which a majority of the members of the IRB are present, including at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. In order for the research to be approved, it shall receive the approval of a majority of those members present at the meeting.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.109
IRB review of research.
(a) An IRB shall review and have authority to approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or disapprove all research activities covered by this policy, including exempt research activities under § 745.104 for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption (under § 745.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7), and (8)).
(b) An IRB shall require that information given to subjects (or legally authorized representatives, when appropriate) as part of informed consent is in accordance with § 745.116. The IRB may require that information, in addition to that specifically mentioned in § 745.116, be given to the subjects when in the IRB's judgment the information would meaningfully add to the protection of the rights and welfare of subjects.
(c) An IRB shall require documentation of informed consent or may waive documentation in accordance with § 745.117.
(d) An IRB shall notify investigators and the institution in writing of its decision to approve or disapprove the proposed research activity, or of modifications required to secure IRB approval of the research activity. If the IRB decides to disapprove a research activity, it shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons for its decision and give the investigator an opportunity to respond in person or in writing.
(e) An IRB shall conduct continuing review of research requiring review by
the convened IRB at intervals appropriate to the degree of risk, not less than once per year, except as described in § 745.109(f).
(f)(1) Unless an IRB determines otherwise, continuing review of research is not required in the following circumstances:
(i) Research eligible for expedited review in accordance with § 745.110;
(ii) Research reviewed by the IRB in accordance with the limited IRB review described in § 745.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8);
(iii) Research that has progressed to the point that it involves only one or both of the following, which are part of the IRB-approved study:
(A) Data analysis, including analysis of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, or
(B) Accessing follow-up clinical data from procedures that subjects would undergo as part of clinical care.
(2) [Reserved]
(g) An IRB shall have authority to observe or have a third party observe the consent process and the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
(a) The Secretary of HHS has established, and published as a Notice in the
Federal Register,
a list of categories of research that may be reviewed by the IRB through an expedited review procedure. The Secretary will evaluate the list at least every 8 years and amend it, as appropriate, after consultation with other federal departments and agencies and after publication in the
Federal Register
for public comment. A copy of the list is available from the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office.
(b)(1) An IRB may use the expedited review procedure to review the following:
(i) Some or all of the research appearing on the list described in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the reviewer determines that the study involves more than minimal risk;
(ii) Minor changes in previously approved research during the period for which approval is authorized; or
(iii) Research for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption under § 745.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7) and (8).
(2) Under an expedited review procedure, the review may be carried out by the IRB chairperson or by one or more experienced reviewers designated by the chairperson from among members of the IRB. In reviewing the research, the reviewers may exercise all of the authorities of the IRB except that the reviewers may not disapprove the research. A research activity may be disapproved only after review in accordance with the nonexpedited procedure set forth in § 745.108(b).
(c) Each IRB that uses an expedited review procedure shall adopt a method for keeping all members advised of research proposals that have been approved under the procedure.
(d) The department or agency head may restrict, suspend, terminate, or choose not to authorize an institution's or IRB's use of the expedited review procedure.
§ 745.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
(a) In order to approve research covered by this policy the IRB shall determine that all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) Risks to subjects are minimized:
(i) By using procedures that are consistent with sound research design and that do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and
(ii) Whenever appropriate, by using procedures already being performed on the subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.
(2) Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge that may reasonably be expected to result. In evaluating risks and benefits, the IRB should consider only those risks and benefits that may result from the research (as distinguished from risks and benefits of therapies subjects would receive even if not participating in the research). The IRB should not consider possible long-range effects of applying knowledge
gained in the research (
e.g.,
the possible effects of the research on public policy) as among those research risks that fall within the purview of its responsibility.
(3) Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment the IRB should take into account the purposes of the research and the setting in which the research will be conducted. The IRB should be particularly cognizant of the special problems of research that involves a category of subjects who are vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons.
(4) Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance with, and to the extent required by, § 745.116.
(5) Informed consent will be appropriately documented or appropriately waived in accordance with § 745.117.
(6) When appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provision for monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects.
(7) When appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(i) The Secretary of HHS will, after consultation with the Office of Management and Budget's privacy office and other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, issue guidance to assist IRBs in assessing what provisions are adequate to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(ii) [Reserved]
(8) For purposes of conducting the limited IRB review required by § 745.104(d)(7)), the IRB need not make the determinations at paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, and shall make the following determinations:
(i) Broad consent for storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens is obtained in accordance with the requirements of § 745.116(a)(1)-(4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Broad consent is appropriately documented or waiver of documentation is appropriate, in accordance with § 745.117; and
(iii) If there is a change made for research purposes in the way the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are stored or maintained, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(b) When some or all of the subjects are likely to be vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, additional safeguards have been included in the study to protect the rights and welfare of these subjects.
§ 745.112
Review by Institution
Research covered by this policy that has been approved by an IRB may be subject to further appropriate review and approval or disapproval by officials of the institution. However, those officials may not approve the research if it has not been approved by an IRB.
§ 745.113
Suspension or Termination of IRB Approval of Research.
An IRB shall have authority to suspend or terminate approval of research that is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or that has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Any suspension or termination of approval shall include a statement of the reasons for the IRB's action and shall be reported promptly to the investigator, appropriate institutional officials, and the department or agency head.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.114
Cooperative Research.
(a) Cooperative research projects are those projects covered by this policy that involve more than one institution. In the conduct of cooperative research projects, each institution is responsible for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects and for complying with this policy.
(b)(1) Any institution located in the United States that is engaged in cooperative research must rely upon approval by a single IRB for that portion
of the research that is conducted in the United States. The reviewing IRB will be identified by the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research or proposed by the lead institution subject to the acceptance of the Federal department or agency supporting the research.
(2) The following research is not subject to this provision:
(i) Cooperative research for which more than single IRB review is required by law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe); or
(ii) Research for which any Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research determines and documents that the use of a single IRB is not appropriate for the particular context.
(c) For research not subject to paragraph (b) of this section, an institution participating in a cooperative project may enter into a joint review arrangement, rely on the review of another IRB, or make similar arrangements for avoiding duplication of effort.
§ 745.115
IRB Records.
(a) An institution, or when appropriate an IRB, shall prepare and maintain adequate documentation of IRB activities, including the following:
(1) Copies of all research proposals reviewed, scientific evaluations, if any, that accompany the proposals, approved sample consent forms, progress reports submitted by investigators, and reports of injuries to subjects.
(2) Minutes of IRB meetings, which shall be in sufficient detail to show attendance at the meetings; actions taken by the IRB; the vote on these actions including the number of members voting for, against, and abstaining; the basis for requiring changes in or disapproving research; and a written summary of the discussion of controverted issues and their resolution.
(3) Records of continuing review activities, including the rationale for conducting continuing review of research that otherwise would not require continuing review as described in § 745.109(f)(1).
(4) Copies of all correspondence between the IRB and the investigators.
(5) A list of IRB members in the same detail as described in § 745.108(a)(2).
(6) Written procedures for the IRB in the same detail as described in § 745.108(a)(3) and (4).
(7) Statements of significant new findings provided to subjects, as required by § 745.116(c)(5).
(8) The rationale for an expedited reviewer's determination under § 745.110(b)(1)(i) that research appearing on the expedited review list described in § 745.110(a) is more than minimal risk.
(9) Documentation specifying the responsibilities that an institution and an organization operating an IRB each will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy, as described in § 745.103(e).
(b) The records required by this policy shall be retained for at least 3 years, and records relating to research that is conducted shall be retained for at least 3 years after completion of the research. The institution or IRB may maintain the records in printed form, or electronically. All records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by authorized representatives of the Federal department or agency at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.116
General Requirements for Informed Consent.
(a)
General.
General requirements for informed consent, whether written or oral, are set forth in this paragraph and apply to consent obtained in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Broad consent may be obtained in lieu of informed consent obtained in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section only with respect to the storage, maintenance, and secondary research uses of identifiable private information and identifiable biospecimens. Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials is described in paragraph (e) of this section. General waiver or alteration of informed consent is
described in paragraph (f) of this section. Except as provided elsewhere in this policy:
(1) Before involving a human subject in research covered by this policy, an investigator shall obtain the legally effective informed consent of the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) An investigator shall seek informed consent only under circumstances that provide the prospective subject or the legally authorized representative sufficient opportunity to discuss and consider whether or not to participate and that minimize the possibility of coercion or undue influence.
(3) The information that is given to the subject or the legally authorized representative shall be in language understandable to the subject or the legally authorized representative.
(4) The prospective subject or the legally authorized representative must be provided with the information that a reasonable person would want to have in order to make an informed decision about whether to participate, and an opportunity to discuss that information.
(5) Except for broad consent obtained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) Informed consent must begin with a concise and focused presentation of the key information that is most likely to assist a prospective subject or legally authorized representative in understanding the reasons why one might or might not want to participate in the research. This part of the informed consent must be organized and presented in a way that facilitates comprehension.
(ii) Informed consent as a whole must present information in sufficient detail relating to the research, and must be organized and presented in a way that does not merely provide lists of isolated facts, but rather facilitates the prospective subject's or legally authorized representative's understanding of the reasons why one might or might not want to participate.
(6) No informed consent may include any exculpatory language through which the subject or the legally authorized representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the subject's legal rights, or releases or appears to release the investigator, the sponsor, the institution, or its agents from liability for negligence.
(b)
Basic elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, in seeking informed consent the following information shall be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the study involves research, an explanation of the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's participation, a description of the procedures to be followed, and identification of any procedures that are experimental;
(2) A description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to the subject;
(3) A description of any benefits to the subject or to others that may reasonably be expected from the research;
(4) A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject;
(5) A statement describing the extent, if any, to which confidentiality of records identifying the subject will be maintained;
(6) For research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation as to whether any compensation and an explanation as to whether any medical treatments are available if injury occurs and, if so, what they consist of, or where further information may be obtained;
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent questions about the research and research subjects' rights, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the subject;
(8) A statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to participate will involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled, and the subject may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled; and
(9) One of the following statements about any research that involves the collection of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens:
(i) A statement that identifiers might be removed from the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens and that, after such removal, the information or biospecimens could be used for future research studies or distributed to another investigator for future research studies without additional informed consent from the subject or the legally authorized representative, if this might be a possibility; or
(ii) A statement that the subject's information or biospecimens collected as part of the research, even if identifiers are removed, will not be used or distributed for future research studies.
(c)
Additional elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, one or more of the following elements of information, when appropriate, shall also be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the particular treatment or procedure may involve risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the subject is or may become pregnant) that are currently unforeseeable;
(2) Anticipated circumstances under which the subject's participation may be terminated by the investigator without regard to the subject's or the legally authorized representative's consent;
(3) Any additional costs to the subject that may result from participation in the research;
(4) The consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by the subject;
(5) A statement that significant new findings developed during the course of the research that may relate to the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject;
(6) The approximate number of subjects involved in the study;
(7) A statement that the subject's biospecimens (even if identifiers are removed) may be used for commercial profit and whether the subject will or will not share in this commercial profit;
(8) A statement regarding whether clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to subjects, and if so, under what conditions; and
(9) For research involving biospecimens, whether the research will (if known) or might include whole genome sequencing (
i.e.,
sequencing of a human germline or somatic specimen with the intent to generate the genome or exome sequence of that specimen).
(d)
Elements of broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens (collected for either research studies other than the proposed research or nonresearch purposes) is permitted as an alternative to the informed consent requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. If the subject or the legally authorized representative is asked to provide broad consent, the following shall be provided to each subject or the subject's legally authorized representative:
(1) The information required in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(5), and (b)(8) and, when appropriate, (c)(7) and (9) of this section;
(2) A general description of the types of research that may be conducted with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This description must include sufficient information such that a reasonable person would expect that the broad consent would permit the types of research conducted;
(3) A description of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens that might be used in research, whether sharing of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens might occur, and the types of institutions or researchers that might conduct research with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens;
(4) A description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be stored and maintained (which period of time could be indefinite), and a description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be used
for research purposes (which period of time could be indefinite);
(5) Unless the subject or legally authorized representative will be provided details about specific research studies, a statement that they will not be informed of the details of any specific research studies that might be conducted using the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, including the purposes of the research, and that they might have chosen not to consent to some of those specific research studies;
(6) Unless it is known that clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to the subject in all circumstances, a statement that such results may not be disclosed to the subject; and
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to questions about the subject's rights and about storage and use of the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related harm.
(e)
Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research or demonstration project is to be conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local government officials and is designed to study, evaluate, or otherwise examine:
(A) Public benefit or service programs;
(B) Procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs;
(C) Possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures; or
(D) Possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs; and
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the waiver or alteration.
(f)
General waiver or alteration of consent
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the requested waiver or alteration;
(iii) If the research involves using identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, the research could not practicably be carried out without using such information or biospecimens in an identifiable format;
(iv) The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects; and
(v) Whenever appropriate, the subjects or legally authorized representatives will be provided with additional pertinent information after participation.
(g)
Screening, recruiting, or determining eligibility.
An IRB may approve a research proposal in which an investigator will obtain information or biospecimens for the purpose of screening, recruiting, or determining the eligibility of prospective subjects without the informed consent of the prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, if either of the following conditions are met:
(1) The investigator will obtain information through oral or written communication with the prospective subject or legally authorized representative, or
(2) The investigator will obtain identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens by accessing records or stored identifiable biospecimens.
(h)
Posting of clinical trial consent form.
(1) For each clinical trial conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, one IRB-approved informed consent form used to enroll subjects must be posted by the awardee or the Federal department or agency component conducting the trial on a publicly available Federal Web site that will be established as a repository for such informed consent forms.
(2) If the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the clinical trial determines that certain information should not be made publicly available on a Federal Web site (
e.g.
confidential commercial information), such Federal department or agency may permit or require redactions to the information posted.
(3) The informed consent form must be posted on the Federal Web site after the clinical trial is closed to recruitment, and no later than 60 days after the last study visit by any subject, as required by the protocol.
(i)
Preemption.
The informed consent requirements in this policy are not intended to preempt any applicable Federal, state, or local laws (including tribal laws passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that require additional information to be disclosed in order for informed consent to be legally effective.
(j)
Emergency medical care.
Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the authority of a physician to provide emergency medical care, to the extent the physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, state, or local law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.117
Documentation of informed consent.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, informed consent shall be documented by the use of a written informed consent form approved by the IRB and signed (including in an electronic format) by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. A written copy shall be given to the person signing the informed consent form.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the informed consent form may be either of the following:
(1) A written informed consent form that meets the requirements of § 745.116. The investigator shall give either the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative adequate opportunity to read the informed consent form before it is signed; alternatively, this form may be read to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) A short form written informed consent form stating that the elements of informed consent required by § 745.116 have been presented orally to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, and that the key information required by § 745.116(a)(5)(i) was presented first to the subject, before other information, if any, was provided. The IRB shall approve a written summary of what is to be said to the subject or the legally authorized representative. When this method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral presentation. Only the short form itself is to be signed by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. However, the witness shall sign both the short form and a copy of the summary, and the person actually obtaining consent shall sign a copy of the summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in addition to a copy of the short form.
(c)(1) An IRB may waive the requirement for the investigator to obtain a signed informed consent form for some or all subjects if it finds any of the following:
(i) That the only record linking the subject and the research would be the informed consent form and the principal risk would be potential harm resulting from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject (or legally authorized representative) will be asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the subject with the research, and the subject's wishes will govern;
(ii) That the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally required outside of the research context; or
(iii) If the subjects or legally authorized representatives are members of a distinct cultural group or community in which signing forms is not the norm, that the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and provided there is an appropriate alternative mechanism for documenting that informed consent was obtained.
(2) In cases in which the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may require the investigator to provide subjects or legally authorized representatives with a written statement regarding the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 745.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
Certain types of applications for grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts are submitted to Federal departments or agencies with the knowledge that subjects may be involved within the period of support, but definite plans would not normally be set forth in the application or proposal. These include activities such as institutional type grants when selection of specific projects is the institution's responsibility; research training grants in which the activities involving subjects remain to be selected; and projects in which human subjects' involvement will depend upon completion of instruments, prior animal studies, or purification of compounds. Except for research waived under § 745.101(i) or exempted under § 745.104, no human subjects may be involved in any project supported by these awards until the project has been reviewed and approved by the IRB, as provided in this policy, and certification submitted, by the institution, to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research.
§ 745.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
Except for research waived under § 745.101(i) or exempted under § 745.104, in the event research is undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects, but it is later proposed to involve human subjects in the research, the research shall first be reviewed and approved by an IRB, as provided in this policy, a certification submitted by the institution to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research, and final approval given to the proposed change by the Federal department or agency component.
§ 745.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
(a) The department or agency head will evaluate all applications and proposals involving human subjects submitted to the Federal department or agency through such officers and employees of the Federal department or agency and such experts and consultants as the department or agency head determines to be appropriate. This evaluation will take into consideration the risks to the subjects, the adequacy of protection against these risks, the potential benefits of the research to the subjects and others, and the importance of the knowledge gained or to be gained.
(b) On the basis of this evaluation, the department or agency head may approve or disapprove the application or proposal, or enter into negotiations to develop an approvable one.
§ 745.121
[Reserved]
§ 745.122
Use of Federal funds.
Federal funds administered by a Federal department or agency may not be expended for research involving human subjects unless the requirements of this policy have been satisfied.
§ 745.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
(a) The department or agency head may require that Federal department or agency support for any project be terminated or suspended in the manner prescribed in applicable program requirements, when the department or agency head finds an institution has materially failed to comply with the terms of this policy.
(b) In making decisions about supporting or approving applications or proposals covered by this policy the department or agency head may take into account, in addition to all other eligibility requirements and program criteria, factors such as whether the applicant has been subject to a termination or suspension under paragraph (a) of this section and whether the applicant or the person or persons who would direct or has/have directed the scientific and technical aspects of an activity has/have, in the judgment of the department or agency head, materially failed to discharge responsibility for the protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects (whether or not the research was subject to federal regulation).
§ 745.124
Conditions.
With respect to any research project or any class of research projects the department or agency head of either the conducting or the supporting Federal department or agency may impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of approval when in the judgment of the department or agency head additional conditions are necessary for the protection of human subjects.
Pt. 760

# PART 760—DOMESTIC URANIUM PROGRAM
§ 760.1
Uranium leases on lands controlled by DOE. (Domestic Uranium Program Circular No. 760.1, formerly (AEC) Domestic Uranium Program Circular 8, 10 CFR 60.8).
(a)
What this section does.
This section sets forth regulations governing the issuance of leases to permit the exploration for and mining of deposits containing uranium in public lands withdrawn from entry and location under the general mining laws for use of DOE, and in certain other lands under DOE control.
(b)
Statutory authority.
The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 919, 42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
) is the authority for this section.
(c)
Who may hold leases.
Only parties who are (1) citizens of the United States; (2) associations of such citizens; or (3) corporations organized under the laws of the United States or territories thereof, are eligible lessees under this section. Persons under 21 years of age or employees of DOE are not eligible.
(d)
Issuance of leases through competitive bidding.
Except under special circumstances as provided in paragraph (u) of this section, each lease will be offered through competitive bidding and, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d), will be issued to the acceptable bidder offering the highest
bid. The bid may be on a cash bonus, royalty bonus, or other basis as specified in the invitation to bid. Invitations to bid on some of the lands may be limited to small business concerns as defined by the Small Business Administration, and such invitations may limit the number of leases to be awarded to each bidder. In such cases DOE will accept those bids which, in relation to other bids received pursuant to the invitation, are most advantageous to the Government. Before any lease is awarded, DOE may require high bidders to submit a detailed statement of the facts as to such matters as their experience, organization, and financial resources. DOE reserves the right to reject any and all bids.
(e)
Solicitation of bids.
Announcements of the availability of invitations to bid for a lease will be publicly posted and published. Copies of such announcements will also be mailed to parties who submit to DOE's Grand Junction, Colorado, Office subsequent to publication in the
Federal Register
of this (DOE) Domestic Uranium Program Circular 760.1, written requests that their names be placed on a mailing list for receipt of such announcements. The invitations containing information for preparation and submission of bids will be available at the Grand Junction Office, and will be mailed only on specific written request, following announcement of their availability. Invitations will specify the land to be leased, the basis on which bids are to be submitted, the amount of the monetary deposit which must be transmitted with the bid, the place and time the bids will be publicly opened, the term, royalty and other payments, performance requirements, and other payments, performance requirements, and other conditions which will become a part of the lease. In addition, data which have been assembled pertaining to the lands to be leased will be available for public inspection at the Grand Junction Office; copies will also be available for purchase.
(f)
Bidding requirements; deposits.
All bids must be filed at the place and prior to the time set forth in the invitation. Each bid must be sealed and accompanied by a deposit, in the form of a certified check, cashier's check, or bank draft, in an amount as specified in the invitation to bid. Deposits of unsuccessful bidders will be returned. If the bidder is an individual, he must submit with his bid a statement of his citizenship and age. If the bidder is an association (including a partnership), the bid shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the articles of association together with a statement as to the citizenship and age of its members. If the bidder is a corporation, evidence that the officer signing the bid had authority to do so and a statement as to the State of incorporation shall also be submitted.
(g)
Awarding of lease.
Following public opening of the bids, DOE, subject to the right to reject any and all bids, will determine the successful bidder. In the event the highest acceptable bids are tie bids, a public drawing will be held by DOE to determine the successful bidder. After notice of award and within the time period prescribed in the invitation, the successful bidder shall execute and return to DOE three (3) copies of the lease and shall remit payments due as prescribed in the invitation. Should the successful bidder fail to execute the lease, or make payments as required, in accordance with the terms of the invitation, or fail to otherwise comply with applicable regulations, he may be required to forfeit any payments previously made, and lose any further right or interest in the lease. In such event, DOE may offer the lease to the next highest acceptable bidder, reoffer the lease for bidding, or take such other action as appropriate. If the awarded lease is executed by the bidder through an agent, evidence of authorization must be submitted.
(h)
Dating of lease.
A lease issued under this section will ordinarily be effective as of the date it is signed on behalf of DOE.
(i)
Term of lease.
A lease shall be for the period specified in the invitation to bid. When deemed desirable by DOE, the lease will provide that the lease term may be extended at the option of the lessee for a specified period and upon stipulated conditions.
(j)
Payments to DOE under lease.
Royalty payments shall be specified in the
invitation to bid; base royalty, minimum royalty, advance royalty, and rental payments, or a combination thereof may be required.
(k)
Title to unshipped ore.
DOE, unless it approves otherwise, reserves all right and title to property in and to all ores and other uranium- or vanadium-bearing material not removed from the leased premises within 60 days after expiration or other termination of the lease. Unless DOE approves otherwise, all material mined from the leased premises and not marketed by the lessee shall remain on the leased premises.
(l)
Environmental controls.
Each lease will contain such provisions as may be deemed necessary by DOE with respect to the lessee's use of the leased lands. DOE may require periodic submission of plans for exploration and mining activities including provisions for control of environmental impact. The lessee will be required to conduct operations so as to minimize adverse environmental effects, to comply with all applicable State and Federal statutes and regulations and to the extent stipulated in the lease agreement, will be held responsible for maintenance or rehabilitation of affected areas in accordance with plans submitted to and approved by DOE.
(m)
Performance requirements.
A lease shall require that exploration, development, and mining activities, as appropriate, be conducted on the leased premises with reasonable diligence, skill, and care as required to achieve and maintain production of uranium ore at rates consistent with good and safe mining practice and with market conditions.
(n)
Health and safety requirements.
A lease (1) shall require that exploration, development, and mining activities, as appropriate, be conducted on the leased premises with due regard for the health and safety of those involved, and (2) shall include appropriate measures for the control of radiation exposure in the mines.
(o)
Lessee's records.
Leases shall provide that the lessee keep and make available to DOE such records as DOE deems necessary for the administration of the lease and its leasing program.
(p)
Rights of DOE.
DOE reserves the right to enter upon the leased property and into all parts of the mine for inspection and other purposes. DOE also reserves the right to grant to other persons easements or rights of way upon, through, or in the leased premises. DOE and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of his duly authorized representatives shall, until the expiration of 3 years after termination or expiration of lease, have access to and the right to examine any directly pertinent books, papers, and records of the lessee involving transactions related to the lease.
(q)
Relinquishment of leases.
A lease may be surrendered by the lessee upon filing with and approval by DOE of a written application for relinquishment. Approval of the application shall be contingent upon the delivery of the leased premises to DOE in a condition determined to be satisfactory to DOE. The lessee shall continue to be liable for the payment of all royalty and other debts due DOE.
(r)
Assignment of leases.
Any transfer of a lease or any interest therein or claim thereunder, will not be recognized unless and until approved by DOE in writing. Ordinarily, DOE will not approve any transfer of a lease which involves overriding royalties or deferred payments of any kind to the transferor.
(s)
Cancellation.
Any lease may be cancelled by DOE whenever the lessee fails to comply with the provisions of the lease. Failure of DOE to exercise its right to cancel shall not be deemed a waiver thereof.
(t)
Form of lease.
Leases will be issued on forms prescribed by DOE.
(u)
Noncompetitive leases.
Under special circumstances, where DOE believes it to be in the best interest of the Government, DOE at its discretion may award or extend leases on the basis of negotiation.
(v)
DOE decisions.
All matters connected with the issuance and administration of leases will be determined by DOE whose decisions shall be final and conclusive.
(w)
Definitions.
DOE as used in this section means the United States Department of Energy or its duly authorized representative or representatives.
(x)
Multiple use of land.
Leases issued under this section shall provide that operations under them will be conducted so as not to interfere with the lawful operations of any third party having a lease, permit, easement, or other right or interest in the premises.
(y)
Compliance with State and Federal regulations.
Every lease shall provide that the lessee is required to comply with all applicable State and Federal statutes and regulations.
(Secs. 66, 161, 68 Stat. 933, 948, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 2096, 2201)
[41 FR 56783, Dec. 30, 1976]
Pt. 765

# PART 765—REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF REMEDIAL ACTION AT ACTIVE URANIUM AND THORIUM PROCESSING SITES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
765.1
Purpose.
765.2
Scope and applicability.
765.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Reimbursement Criteria
765.10
Eligibility for reimbursement.
765.11
Reimbursable costs.
765.12
Inflation index adjustment procedures.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Submitting and Processing Reimbursement Claims
765.20
Procedures for submitting reimbursement claims.
765.21
Procedures for processing reimbursement claims.
765.22
Appeals procedures.
765.23
Annual report.

# Subpart D—Additional Reimbursement Procedures
765.30
Reimbursement of costs incurred in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action.
765.31
Designation of funds available for subsequent remedial action.
765.32
Reimbursement of excess funds.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2296a
et seq.

# Source:
59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 765.1
Purpose.
The provisions of this part establish regulatory requirements governing reimbursement for certain costs of remedial action at active uranium or thorium processing sites as specified by Subtitle A of Title X of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. These regulations are authorized by section 1002 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2296a-1), which requires the Secretary to issue regulations governing the reimbursements.
§ 765.2
Scope and applicability.
(a) This part establishes policies, criteria, and procedures governing reimbursement of certain costs of remedial action incurred by licensees at active uranium or thorium processing sites as a result of byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States.
(b) Costs of remedial action at active uranium or thorium processing sites are borne by persons licensed under section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2092, 2111), either by NRC or an Agreement State pursuant to a counterpart to section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act, under State law, subject to the exceptions and limitations specified in this part.
(c) The Department shall, subject to the provisions specified in this part, reimburse a licensee, of an active uranium or thorium processing site for the portion of the costs of remedial action as are determined by the Department to be attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States and either incurred by the licensee not later than December 31, 2007, or incurred by the licensee in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action approved by the Department.
(d) Costs of remedial action are reimbursable under Title X for decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action, provided that claims for reimbursement are supported by reasonable documentation as specified in subpart C of this part.
(e) Except as authorized by § 765.32, the total amount of reimbursement
paid to any licensee of an active uranium processing site shall not exceed $6.25 multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material. This total amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to section 765.12.
(f) The total amount of reimbursement paid to all active uranium processing site licensees shall not exceed $350 million. This total amount shall be adjusted for inflation by applying the CPI-U, as provided by § 765.12.
(g) The total amount of reimbursement paid to the licensee of the active thorium processing site shall not exceed $365 million, as adjusted for inflation by applying the CPI-U as provided by § 765.12.
(h) Reimbursement of licensees for costs of remedial action will only be made for costs that are supported by reasonable documentation as required by § 765.20 and claimed for reimbursement by a licensee in accordance with the procedures established by subpart C of this part.
(i) The $715 million aggregate amount authorized to be appropriated under section 1003(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2296a-2(a)) shall be adjusted for inflation by applying the CPI-U as provided by § 765.12, and shall be provided from the Fund.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]
§ 765.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms are defined as follows:
Active uranium or thorium processing site
or
active processing site
means:
(1) Any uranium or thorium processing site, including the mill, containing byproduct material for which a license, issued either by NRC or by an Agreement State, for the production at a site of any uranium or thorium derived from ore—
(i) Was in effect on January 1, 1978;
(ii) Was issued or renewed after January 1, 1978; or
(iii) For which an application for renewal or issuance was pending on, or after January 1, 1978; and
(2) Any other real property or improvement on such real property that is determined by the Secretary or by an Agreement State to be:
(i) In the vicinity of such site; and
(ii) Contaminated with residual byproduct material.
Agreement State
means a State that is or has been a party to a discontinuance agreement with NRC under section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2021) and thereafter issues licenses and establishes remedial action requirements pursuant to a counterpart to section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act under state law.
Atomic Energy Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
).
Byproduct material
means the tailings or wastes produced by the extraction or concentration of uranium or thorium from any ore processed primarily for its source material content.
Claim for reimbursement
means the submission of an application for reimbursement in accordance with the requirements established in subpart C of this part.
Costs of remedial action
means costs incurred by a licensee prior to or after enactment of UMTRCA to perform decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action. These costs may include but are not necessarily limited to expenditures for work necessary to comply with applicable requirements to conduct groundwater remediation, treatment or containment of contaminated soil, disposal of process wastes, removal actions, air pollution abatement measures, mill and equipment decommissioning, site monitoring, administrative activities, expenditures required to meet necessary regulatory standards, or other requirements established by NRC, or an Agreement State. Costs of remedial action must be supported by reasonable documentation in accordance with the requirements of subpart C of this part.
Decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action
means work performed which is necessary to comply with all applicable requirements of UMTRCA or, where appropriate, with applicable requirements established by an Agreement State.
Department
means the United States Department of Energy or its authorized agents.
Dry short tons of byproduct material
means the quantity of tailings generated from the extraction and processing of 2,000 pounds of uranium or thorium ore-bearing rock.
Federal reimbursement ratio
means the ratio of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material to total dry short tons of byproduct material present at an active uranium or thorium processing site on October 24, 1992. The ratio shall be established by comparing Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material to total dry short tons of byproduct material present at the site on October 24, 1992, or by another means of attributing costs of remedial action to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States which the Department determines is more accurate than a ratio established using dry short tons of byproduct material.
Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material
means dry short tons of byproduct material that was present at an active uranium or thorium processing site on October 24, 1992, and was generated as an incident of uranium or thorium sales to the United States.
Generally accepted accounting principles
means those principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board which encompass the conventions, rules, and procedures necessary to define accepted accounting practice at a particular time.
Inflation index
means the consumer price index for all urban consumers (CPI-U) as published by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Licensee
means a site owner licensed under section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2092, 2111) by NRC, or an Agreement State, for any activity at an active uranium or thorium processing site which results, or has resulted, in the production of byproduct material.
Maximum reimbursement amount or maximum reimbursement ceiling
means the smaller of the following two quantities:
(1) The amount obtained by multiplying the total cost of remedial action at the site, as determined in the approved plan for subsequent remedial action, by the Federal reimbursement ratio established for the site; or
(2) $6.25, as adjusted for inflation, multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material.
NRC
means the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its predecessor agency.
Offsite disposal
means the disposal, and activities that contribute to the disposal, of byproduct material in a location that is not contiguous to the West Chicago Thorium Mill Site located in West Chicago, Illinois, in accordance with a plan approved by, or other written authorization from, the State of Illinois or NRC provided the activities are consistent with the ultimate removal of byproduct material from the West Chicago Thorium Mill Site.
Plan for subsequent remedial action
means a plan approved by the Department which includes an estimated total cost and schedule for remedial action, and all applicable requirements of remedial action established by NRC or an Agreement State to be performed after December 31, 2007, at an active uranium or thorium processing site.
Reclamation plan or site reclamation plan
means a plan, which has been approved by NRC or an Agreement State, for remedial action at an active processing site that establishes the work necessary to comply with applicable requirements of UMTRCA, or where appropriate with requirements established by an Agreement State.
Remedial action
means decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action at an active uranium or thorium processing site.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy or her designees.
Site owner
means a person that presently holds, or held in the past, any interest in land, including but not limited to a fee simple absolute, surface or subsurface ownership of mining claims, easements, and a right of access for the purposes of cleanup, or any other legal or equitable interest.
Tailings
means the remaining portion of a metal-bearing ore after some or all of the metal, such as uranium, has been extracted.
The Fund
means the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund established at the United States Department of Treasury pursuant to section 1801 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2297g).
Title X or “the Act”
means Subtitle A of Title X of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102-486, 106 Stat. 2776 (42 U.S.C. 2296a-1
et seq.
).
UMTRCA
means the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7901
et seq.
).
United States
means any executive department, commission, or agency, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal Government.
Written Authorization
means a written statement from either the NRC or an Agreement State that a licensee has performed in the past, or is authorized to perform in the future, a remedial action that is necessary to comply with the requirements of UMTRCA or, where appropriate, the requirements of an Agreement State.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]

# Subpart B—Reimbursement Criteria
§ 765.10
Eligibility for reimbursement.
(a) Any licensee of an active uranium or thorium processing site that has incurred costs of remedial action for the site that are attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States shall be eligible for reimbursement of these costs, subject to the procedures and limitations specified in this part.
(b) Prior to reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred by a licensee, the Department shall make a determination regarding the total quantity of dry short tons of byproduct material, and the quantity of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material present on October 24, 1992 at the licensee's active processing site. A claim for reimbursement from a site for which a determination is made will be evaluated individually. If a licensee does not concur with the Department's determination regarding the quantity of dry short tons of byproduct material present at the site, the licensee may appeal the Department's determination in accordance with § 765.22 of this part. The Department's determination shall be used to determine that portion of an approved claim for reimbursement submitted by the licensee which shall be reimbursed, unless or until the determination is overturned on appeal. If the outcome of an appeal requires a change in the Department's initial determination, the Department will adjust any payment previously made to the licensee to reflect the change.
§ 765.11
Reimbursable costs.
(a) Costs for which a licensee may be reimbursed must be for remedial action that a licensee demonstrates is attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States, as determined by the Department. These costs are equal to the total costs of remedial action at a site multiplied by the Federal reimbursement ratio established for the site. These costs must be incurred in the performance of activities, prior to or after enactment of UMTRCA, and required by a plan, portion thereof, or other written authorization, approved by NRC or by an Agreement State. Costs of remedial action shall be reimbursable only if approved by the Department in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(b) In addition, costs of remedial action incurred by a licensee after December 31, 2007 must be in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action approved by the Department as specified in § 765.30.
(c) Total reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred at an active processing site that are otherwise reimbursable pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be limited as follows:
(1) Reimbursement of costs of remedial action to active uranium processing site licensees shall not exceed $6.25, as adjusted for inflation, multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material.
(2) Aggregate reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred at all active uranium processing sites shall not exceed $350 million. This aggregate amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to § 765.12; and
(3) Reimbursement of costs of remedial action at the active thorium processing site shall be limited to costs incurred for offsite disposal and shall not exceed $365 million. This amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to § 765.12.
(d) Notwithstanding the Title X requirement that byproduct material must be located at an active processing site on October 24, 1992, byproduct material moved from the Edgemont Mill in Edgemont, South Dakota, to a disposal site as a result of remedial action, shall be eligible for reimbursement in accordance with all applicable requirements of this part.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]
§ 765.12
Inflation index adjustment procedures.
(a) The amounts of $6.25 (as specified in § 765.2(e) of this rule) $350 million (as specified in § 765.2(f) of this rule), $365 million (as specified in § 765.2(g) of this rule) and $715 million (as specified in § 765.2(i) of this rule) shall be adjusted for inflation as provided by this section.
(b) To make adjustments for inflation to the amounts specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department shall apply the CPI-U to these amounts annually, beginning in 1994, using the CPI-U as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics within the Department of Commerce for the preceding calendar year.
(c) The Department shall adjust annually, using the CPI-U as defined in this part, amounts paid to an active uranium processing site licensee for purposes of comparison with the $6.25 per dry short ton limit on reimbursement as adjusted for inflation.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]

# Subpart C—Procedures for Submitting and Processing Reimbursement Claims
§ 765.20
Procedures for submitting reimbursement claims.
(a) All costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is claimed must be supported by reasonable documentation as specified in this subpart. The Department reserves the right to deny any claim for reimbursement, in whole or in part, that is not submitted in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
(b) The licensee shall provide a copy of the approved site reclamation plan or other written authorization from NRC or an Agreement State upon which claims for reimbursement are based, with the initial claim submitted. Any revision or modification made to the plan or other written authorization, which is approved by NRC or an Agreement State, shall be included by the licensee in the next claim submitted to the Department following that revision or modification. This reclamation plan or other written authorization, as modified or revised, shall serve as the basis for the Department's evaluation of all claims for reimbursement submitted by a licensee.
(c) Each submitted claim shall provide a summary of all costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is claimed. This summary shall identify the costs of remedial action associated with each major activity or requirement established by the site's reclamation plan or other written authorization. In addition, each claim shall provide a summary of the documentation relied upon by the licensee in support of each cost category for which reimbursement is claimed.
(d) Documentation used to support a reimbursement claim must demonstrate that the costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is claimed were incurred specifically for activities specified in the site's reclamation plan, or otherwise authorized by NRC or an Agreement State. Summary documentation used in support of a claim must be cross-referenced to the relevant page and activity of the licensee's reclamation plan, or other written authorization approved by NRC or an Agreement State.
(1) Documentation prepared contemporaneous to the time the cost was incurred should be used when available. The documentation should identify the date or time period for which the cost was incurred, the activity for which
the cost was incurred, and the reclamation plan provision or other written authorization to which the cost relates. Where available, each claim should be supported by receipts, invoices, pay records, or other documents that substantiate that each specific cost for which reimbursement is claimed was incurred for work that was necessary to comply with UMTRCA or applicable Agreement State requirements.
(2) Documentation not prepared contemporaneous to the time the cost was incurred, or not directly related to activities specified in the reclamation plan or other written authorization, may be used in support of a claim for reimbursement provided that the licensee determines the documentation is the only means available to document costs for which reimbursement is sought.
(e) The Department may audit, or require the licensee to audit, any documentation used to support a claim on a case-by-case basis and may approve, approve in part, or deny reimbursement of any claim in accordance with the requirements of this part. Documentation relied upon by a licensee in support of a claim for reimbursement shall be made available to the Department and retained by the licensee until 4 years after final payment of a claim is made by the Department.
(f) Each licensee should utilize generally accepted accounting principles consistently throughout the claim. These accounting principles, underlying assumptions, and any other information necessary for the Department to evaluate the claim shall be set forth in each claim.
(g) Following each annual appropriation by Congress, the Department will issue a
Federal Register
Notice announcing:
(1) A claim submission deadline for that fiscal year;
(2) Availability of funds for reimbursement of costs of remedial action;
(3) Whether the Department anticipates that approved claims for that fiscal year may be subject to prorated payment;
(4) Any changes in the Federal reimbursement ratio or maximum reimbursement ceiling for any active uranium or thorium processing site;
(5) Any revision in the per dry short ton limit on reimbursement for all active uranium processing sites; and
(6) Any other relevant information.
(h) A licensee shall certify, with respect to any claim submitted by it for reimbursement, that the work was completed as described in an approved reclamation plan or other authorization. In addition, the licensee shall certify that all costs for which reimbursement is claimed, all documentation relied upon in support of its costs, and all statements or representations made in the claim are complete, accurate, and true. The certification shall be signed by an officer or other official of the licensee with knowledge of the contents of the claim and authority to represent the licensee in making the certification. Any knowingly false or frivolous statements or representations may subject the individual to penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729 through 3731 of title 31 United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; and criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001 and 1002 of title 18, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority.
(i) All claims for reimbursement submitted to the Department shall be sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The Department reserves all rights under applicable law to recover any funds paid to licensees which an audit finds to not meet the requirements of this part.
§ 765.21
Procedures for processing reimbursement claims.
(a) The Department will conduct a preliminary review of each claim within 60 days after the claim submission deadline announced in the
Federal Register
Notice specified in § 765.20(g) to determine the completeness of each claim. Payments from the Fund to active uranium or thorium processing site licensees for approved costs of remedial action will be made simultaneously by the Department within 1 year of the claim submission deadline.
(b) After completing the preliminary review specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department may audit, or require the licensee to audit, any documentation used in support of such
claim, request the licensee to provide additional information, or request the licensee to provide other clarification determined by the Department to be necessary to complete its evaluation of the claim. In addition, the Department reserves the right to conduct an inspection of the site to verify any information provided by the licensee in a claim for reimbursement, or in support thereof. Any information requested by the Department, if provided, must be submitted by the claimant within 60 days of receipt of the request unless the Department specifies in writing that additional time is provided.
(c) At any time during the review of a claim, the Department may request an informal conference with a licensee to obtain further information or clarification on any unresolved issue pertaining to the claim. While the licensee is not required to provide additional clarification requested by the Department, a failure to do so may result in the denial of that portion of the claim for which information is requested.
(d) Based upon the claim submitted and any additional information received by the Department, including any audit or site inspection if conducted, the Department shall complete a final review of all relevant information prior to making a reimbursement decision. When the Department determines it is not clear that an activity for which reimbursement is claimed was necessary to comply with UMTRCA or where appropriate, with applicable Agreement State requirements, the Department may consult with the appropriate regulatory authorities.
(e) A written decision regarding the Department's determination to approve, approve in part, or deny a claim will be provided to the licensee within 10 days of completion of the claim review. Within 45 days after the Department's issuance of a written decision to deny the claim due to inadequate documentation, the licensee may request the Department to reconsider its decision if the licensee provides reasonable documentation in accordance with § 765.20. If a licensee chooses not to submit the documentation, the licensee has the right to file a formal appeal to a claim denial in accordance with § 765.22. If a licensee chooses to submit the documentation, the Department will consider whether the documentation results in the Department's reversal of the initial decision to deny the claim and will inform the licensee of the Department's subsequent decision. The licensee may appeal that decision in accordance with § 765.22.
(f) If the Department determines that insufficient funds are available at any time to provide for complete payment of all outstanding approved claims, reimbursements of approved claims will be made on a prorated basis. A prorated payment of all outstanding approved claims for reimbursement, or any unpaid portion thereof, shall be made on the basis of the total amount of all outstanding approved claims, regardless of when the claims were submitted or approved.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, or any other provisions of this part, any requirement for the payment or obligation of funds by the Department established by this part shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds, and no provision herein shall be interpreted to require obligation or payment of funds in violation of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1341).
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]
§ 765.22
Appeals procedures.
(a) Any appeal by a licensee of any Department determination subject to the requirements of this part, shall invoke the appeals process specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A licensee shall file an appeal of any Department determination subject to the requirements of this part with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. Any appeal must be filed within 45 days from the date the licensee received notice, actual or constructive (i.e., publication in the
Federal Register
), of the Department's determination. Appeals must comply with the procedures set forth in 10 CFR part 1003, subpart C. The decision of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be the final decision of the Department. A licensee must file an appeal in order to
exhaust its administrative remedies, and the receipt of an appellate decision is a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of any determination made under this part.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 15017, Mar. 21, 1995]
§ 765.23
Annual report.
The Department shall prepare annually a report summarizing pertinent information concerning claims submitted in the previous calendar year, the status of the Department's review of the claims, determinations made regarding the claims, amounts paid for claims approved, and other relevant information concerning this reimbursement program. The report will be available to all interested parties upon written request to the Department's National Nuclear Security Administration Service Center, Office of Technical Services, Environmental Programs Department, P.O. Box 5400, Albuquerque, NM 87185-5400 and will also be available in the Department's Freedom of Information Reading room, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]

# Subpart D—Additional Reimbursement Procedures
§ 765.30
Reimbursement of costs incurred in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action.
(a) This section establishes procedures governing reimbursements of costs of remedial action incurred in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action approved by the Department as provided in this section. Costs otherwise eligible for reimbursement in accordance with the terms of this part and incurred in accordance with the plan shall be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of subpart D and subpart C. In the event there is an inconsistency between the requirements of subpart D and subpart C, the provisions of subpart D shall govern reimbursement of such costs of remedial action.
(b) A licensee who anticipates incurring costs of remedial action after December 31, 2007 may submit a plan for subsequent remedial action. This plan may be submitted at any time after January 1, 2005, but no later than December 31, 2006. Reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred after December 31, 2007 shall be subject to the approval of this plan by the Department. This plan shall describe:
(1) All applicable requirements established by NRC pursuant to UMTRCA, or where appropriate, by the requirements of an Agreement State, included in a reclamation plan approved by NRC or an Agreement State which have not yet been satisfied in full by the licensee, and
(2) The total cost of remedial action required at the site, together with all necessary supporting documentation, segregated into actual costs incurred to date, costs incurred or expected to be incurred prior to December 31, 2007 but not yet approved for reimbursement, and anticipated future costs.
(c) The Department shall review the plan for subsequent remedial action to verify conformance with the NRC- or Agreement State-approved reclamation plan or other written authorization, and to determine the reasonableness of anticipated future costs, and shall approve, approve with suggested modifications, or reject the plan. During its review, the Department may request additional information from the licensee to clarify or provide support for any provision or estimate contained in the plan. The Department may also consult with NRC or an Agreement State concerning any provision or estimate contained in the plan. Upon approval, approval with modifications, or rejection of a plan, the Department shall inform and explain to the licensee its decision.
(d) If the Department rejects a plan for subsequent remedial action submitted by a licensee, the licensee may appeal the Department's rejection or prepare and submit a revised plan. The licensee may continue to submit revised plans for subsequent remedial action until the Department approves a plan, or September 30, 2007, whichever occurs first. A failure by a licensee to receive approval from the Department of a plan prior to December 31, 2007 will preclude that licensee from receiving
any reimbursement for costs of remedial action incurred after that date.
(e) The Department shall determine, in approving a plan for subsequent remedial action, the maximum reimbursement amount for which the licensee may be eligible. This maximum reimbursement amount shall be the smaller of the following two quantities:
(1) The amount obtained by multiplying the total cost of remedial action at the site, as determined in the approved plan for subsequent remedial action, by the Federal reimbursement ratio established for such site; or
(2) For the uranium site licensees only, $6.25, as adjusted for inflation, multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material. For all licensees, the Department shall subtract from the maximum reimbursement amount any reimbursement already approved to be paid to the licensee. The resulting sum shall be the potential additional reimbursement to which the licensee may be entitled. This resulting sum will be adjusted after the approval of claims for work performed through December 31, 2007, to reflect the actual approved costs of work performed through that date.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]
§ 765.31
Designation of funds available for subsequent remedial action.
(a) The Department shall authorize reimbursement of costs of remedial action, incurred in accordance with an approved plan for subsequent remedial action and approved by the Department as specified in subpart C to this part, to be made from the Fund. These costs are reimbursable until:
(1) This remedial action has been completed, or
(2) The licensee has been reimbursed its maximum reimbursement amount as determined by the Department pursuant to paragraph (e) of § 765.30.
(b) A licensee shall submit any claim for reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred pursuant to an approved plan for subsequent remedial action in accordance with the requirements of subpart C of this part. The Department shall approve, approve in part, or deny any claims in accordance with the procedures specified in subpart C of this part. The Department shall authorize the disbursement of funds upon approval of a claim for reimbursement.
(c) After all remedial actions have been completed by affected Agreement State or NRC licensees, the Department will issue a
Federal Register
notice announcing a termination date beyond which claims for reimbursement will no longer be accepted.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32958, June 3, 2003]
§ 765.32
Reimbursement of excess funds.
(a) No later than December 31, 2008, the Department shall determine if the aggregate amount authorized for appropriation pursuant to section 1003 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2296a-2), as adjusted for inflation pursuant to § 765.12, exceed as of that date the combined total of all reimbursements which have been paid to licensees under this part, any amounts approved for reimbursement and owed to any licensee, and any anticipated additional reimbursements to be made in accordance with approved plans for subsequent remedial action.
(b) If the Department determines that the amount authorized pursuant to section 1003 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2296a-2), as adjusted for inflation, exceed the combined total of all reimbursements (as indicated in paragraph (a) of this section), the Department may establish procedures for providing additional reimbursement to uranium licensees for costs of remedial action, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. If the amount of available excess funds is insufficient to provide reimbursement of all eligible costs of remedial action, then reimbursement shall be paid on a prorated basis.
(c) Each eligible uranium licensee's prorated share will be determined by dividing the total excess funds available by the total number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material present at the site where costs of remedial action exceed $6.25 per dry short ton, as adjusted for inflation pursuant to § 765.12. The resulting number will be the maximum cost per dry short ton, over $6.25, that may be reimbursed. Total reimbursement for each
licensee that has incurred approved costs of remedial action in excess of $6.25 per dry short ton will be the product of the excess cost per dry short ton multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material at the site or the actual costs incurred and approved by the Department, whichever is less.
(d) Any costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is sought from excess funds determined by the Department to be available is subject to all requirements of this part except the per dry short ton limit on reimbursement established by paragraph (d) of § 765.11.
[59 FR 26726, May 23, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 32957, June 3, 2003]
Pt. 766

# PART 766—URANIUM ENRICHMENT DECONTAMINATION AND DECOMMISSIONING FUND; PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OF DOMESTIC UTILITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
766.1
Purpose.
766.2
Applicability.
766.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Special Assessment
766.100
Scope.
766.101
Data utilization.
766.102
Calculation methodology.
766.103
Special Assessment invoices.
766.104
Reconciliation, adjustments and appeals.
766.105
Payment procedures.
766.106
Late payment fees.
766.107
Prepayment of future Special Assessments.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201, 2297g, 2297g-1, 2297g-2, 7254.

# Source:
59 FR 41963, Aug. 15, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 766.1
Purpose.
The provisions of this part establish procedures for the Special Assessment of domestic utilities for the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund pursuant to sections 1801, 1802 and 1803 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 2011
et seq.
).
§ 766.2
Applicability.
This part applies to all domestic utilities in the United States that purchased separative work units from the DOE between 1945 and October 23, 1992.
§ 766.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
CPI-U
means the Consumer Price Index for all-urban consumers published by the Department of Labor.
Commercial electricity generation
means the production of electricity for sale to consumers.
DOE
means the United States Department of Energy and its predecessor agencies.
Domestic utility
means any utility in the United States that has purchased SWUs produced by DOE for the purpose of commercial electrical generation during the period beginning in 1945 to October 23, 1992.
Fund
means an account in the U.S. Treasury referred to as the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, established by section 1801 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Oak Ridge Operations Office
means the Oak Ridge Operations Office of the Department of Energy in Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Special Assessment
means the Special Assessment levied on domestic utilities for payments into the Fund.
SWU
means a separative work unit, the common measure by which uranium enrichment services are sold.
TESS
means the Toll Enrichment Services System, which is the database that tracks uranium enrichment services transactions of the DOE Oak Ridge Operations Office for the purpose of planning, toll transaction processing, customer invoicing and historical tracking of SWU deliveries.
Use and burnup charges
mean lease charges for the consumption of SWUs and natural uranium.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Special Assessment
§ 766.100
Scope.
This subpart sets forth the procedures for the Special Assessment of domestic utilities for funds to be deposited in the Fund.
§ 766.101
Data utilization.
DOE shall use the records from the Toll Enrichment Services System (TESS) and other records maintained by the Oak Ridge Operations Office in order to determine the total SWUs purchased from DOE for all purposes. DOE shall use records from TESS, relevant records of domestic utilities, and such other information as DOE deems to be reliable and probative in determining the number of SWUs that were purchased by each domestic utility prior to October 24, 1992. A domestic utility shall be considered to have purchased a SWU from DOE if the SWU was produced by DOE but purchased by the domestic utility from another source. DOE shall consider a purchase to have occurred upon the delivery of a SWU to the domestic utility purchasing the SWU. A domestic utility shall not be considered to have purchased a SWU from DOE if the SWU was purchased by the domestic utility but subsequently sold to another source.
§ 766.102
Calculation methodology.
(a)
Calculation of Domestic Utilities' Annual Assessment Ratio to the Fund.
Domestic utilities shall be assessed annually for their share of the Fund. The amount of the assessment shall be determined by the ratio of SWUs produced by DOE and purchased by domestic utilities prior to October 24, 1992, to the total number of SWUs produced by DOE for all purposes (including SWUs produced for defense purposes). All calculations will be carried out to the fifth significant digit. This ratio is expressed by the following hypothetical example:
SWUs purchased by all domestic utilities
Total SWUs produced—all purposes
Special assessment ratio
12345
÷
45678
=
.27026
(b)
Calculation of the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment for Domestic Utilities.
The Annual Special Assessment ratio calculated in paragraph (a) of this section shall be multiplied by $480 million, yielding the total amount of the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment as of October 1992. In the event that this amount is in excess of $150 million, the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment shall be capped at $150 million. All calculations will be carried out to the fifth significant digit. The Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment is determined as shown in the following hypothetical example:
Total fund
Annual assessment ratio
Baseline total annual special assessment
$480,000,000
×
0.27026
=
$129,724,800
(c)
Calculation of Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment per Utility.
The ratio of the total number of SWUs purchased by an individual domestic utility for commercial electricity generation, to the total number of SWUs purchased by all domestic utilities for commercial electricity generation, multiplied by the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment calculated in paragraph (b) of this section, determines an individual utility's share of the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment. All calculations will be carried out to the fifth significant digit. A hypothetical example of such a calculation follows:
Single utility SWUs
All utility SWUs
Utility ratio
Baseline total annual special assessment
Individual utility special Assessment
300
÷
12345
=
.02430
×
$129,724,800
$3,152,312.64
(d)
Calculation of Inflation Adjustment.
The Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment billed to domestic utilities shall be adjusted for inflation using the
most recently published monthly CPI-U and the CPI-U for October 1992. All calculations will be carried out to the fifth significant digit. A hypothetical example of such a calculation follows:
CPI-U (Mar 93)
CPI-U (Oct 92)
Adjustment multiplier
150
÷
141.8
=
1.05783
Utility special Assessment
Adjustment multiplier
Adjusted utility assessment
$3,152,312.64
×
1.05783
=
$3,334,610.88
§ 766.103
Special Assessment invoices.
(a) DOE shall issue annually a Special Assessment invoice to each domestic utility. This invoice will specify itemized quantities of enrichment services by reactor. In each Special Assessment invoice, DOE shall require payment, on or before 30 days from the date of each invoice, of that utility's prorated share of the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment, as adjusted for inflation using the most recently published monthly CPI-U data.
(b) DOE shall enclose with the Fiscal Year 1993 Special Assessment invoice a sealed, business confidential, summary SWU transaction statement including:
(1) TESS information which documents, by reactor, the basis of the utility's assessment;
(2) A list of domestic utilities subject to the Special Assessment;
(3) The total number of SWUs purchased from DOE by all domestic utilities for all purposes prior to October 24, 1992.
(4) The total number of SWUs purchased from DOE for all purposes prior to October 24, 1992, including SWUs purchased or produced for defense purposes; and
(5) Such other information as may be appropriate.
(c) With regard to any fiscal year after Fiscal Year 1993, DOE shall enclose a summary SWU transaction statement with Special Assessment invoices that will include updated information regarding adjustments to Special Assessments resulting from the reconciliation and appeals process under Section 766.104.
(d) The date of each Annual Special Assessment invoicing will be set on or about October 1 with payment due 30 calendar days from the date of invoice starting with the Fiscal Year 1995 Special Assessment.
§ 766.104
Reconciliation, adjustments and appeals.
(a) A domestic utility requesting an adjustment shall, within 30 days from the date of a Special Assessment invoice, file a notice requesting an adjustment. Such notice shall include an explanation of the basis for the adjustment and any supporting documents, and may include a request for a meeting with DOE to discuss its invoice. If more time is needed to gather probative information, DOE will consider utility requests for up to 90 days additional time, providing that the initial notice requesting an adjustment was timely filed. The notice shall be filed at the address set forth in the Special Assessment invoice, and filing of this notice is complete only upon receipt by DOE. Domestic utilities are considered to have met the filing requirements upon DOE's receipt of the notice requesting an adjustment without regard to DOE's acceptance of supporting documentation. The filing of a notice for an adjustment shall not stay the obligation to pay.
(b) DOE may request additional information from domestic utilities and may acquire data from other sources.
(c) After reviewing a notice submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and other relevant information, and after making any necessary adjustment to its records in light of reliable and adequately probative records submitted in connection with the request for adjustment or otherwise obtained by DOE, DOE shall make a written determination granting or denying the requested adjustment. As appropriate, DOE shall modify the application of TESS data for any discrepancies or further transactions raised during the reconciliation process.
(d) Any domestic utility that wishes to dispute a written determination under paragraph (c) of this section shall have the right to file an appeal with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, DC 20585. Except for the Fiscal
Year 1993 Special Assessment, any appeal must be filed on or before 30 days from the date of the written determination and should contain information of the type described in 10 CFR part 1003, subpart C. With regard to a written determination under paragraph (c) of this section concerning a Fiscal Year 1993 Special Assessment, a domestic utility must file an appeal on or before 30 days from the effective date of this paragraph or from the date of such written determination, whichever is later. The decision of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be the final decision of DOE. Upon completion of the reconciliation process, all records of SWU transactions shall be finalized and shall become the basis of subsequent Special Assessment invoices. These records shall be revised to reflect any decisions from the Office of Hearings and Appeals and any applicable court rulings.
(e) Refunds of Special Assessments shall be provided in cases where DOE has determined, as a result of reconciliation, that an overpayment has been made by a domestic utility, and that the domestic utility has no further current obligation to DOE.
[59 FR 41963, Aug. 15, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 15017, Mar. 21, 1995]
§ 766.105
Payment procedures.
DOE shall specify payment details and instructions in all Special Assessment invoices. Each domestic utility shall make payments to the Fund by wire transfer to the Department of Treasury.
§ 766.106
Late payment fees.
In the case of a late payment by a domestic utility of its Special Assessment, the domestic utility shall pay interest at the per annum rate (365-day basis) established by DOE for general application to monies due DOE and not received by DOE on or before a designated due date. Interest shall accrue beginning the date of the designated payment except that, whenever the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a United States legal holiday, interest shall commence on the next day immediately following which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or United States legal holiday. Late payment provisions for the Special Assessment to the Fund shall be based on the Treasury Current Value of Funds Rate (which is published annually by the Treasury and used in assessing interest charges for outstanding debts on claims owed to the United States Government), plus six (6) percent pro rata on a daily basis. The additional six (6) percent charge shall not go into effect until five (5) business days after payment was originally due. Late payment fees shall be invoiced within two days of receipt of utility payment of the special assessment when delinquency is less than 30 days. For longer periods of delinquency, DOE will submit additional invoices, as appropriate. Late payment fees will be due 30 days from the date of invoice.
§ 766.107
Prepayment of future Special Assessments
DOE shall accept prepayment of future Special Assessments upon request by a domestic utility. A domestic utility's liability for the future assessments shall be satisfied to the extent of the prepayments. DOE shall use the pro rata share of prepayments attributable to a given fiscal year plus the Special Assessments collected from utilities who did not prepay for that fiscal year, in order to determine that the total amount of Special Assessments collected from domestic utilities in a given fiscal year does not exceed $150 million, annually adjusted for inflation.
Pt. 770

# PART 770—TRANSFER OF REAL PROPERTY AT DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Sec.
770.1
What is the purpose of this part?
770.2
What real property does this part cover?
770.3
What general limitations apply to this part?
770.4
What definitions are used in this part?
770.5
How does DOE notify persons and entities that defense nuclear facility real property is available for transfer for economic development?
770.6
May interested persons and entities request that real property at defense nuclear facilities be transferred for economic development?
770.7
What procedures are to be used to transfer real property at defense nuclear facilities for economic development?
770.8
May DOE transfer real property at defense nuclear facilities for economic development at less than fair market value?
770.9
What conditions apply to DOE indemnification of claims against a person or entity based on the release or threatened release of a hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant attributable to DOE?
770.10
When must a person or entity, who wishes to contest a DOE denial of request for indemnification of a claim, begin legal action?
770.11
When does a claim “accrue” for purposes of notifying the Field Office Manager under § 770.9(a) of this part?

# Authority:
50 U.S.C. 2811.

# Source:
65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 770.1
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) This part establishes how DOE will transfer by sale or lease real property at closed or downsized defense nuclear facilities for economic development.
(b) This part also contains the procedures for a person or entity to request indemnification for any claim that results from the release or threatened release of a hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant as a result of DOE activities at the defense nuclear facility.
[65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 67927, Nov. 13, 2013]
§ 770.2
What real property does this part cover?
(a) DOE may transfer DOE-owned real property by sale or lease at closed or downsized defense nuclear facilities, for the purpose of permitting economic development.
(b) DOE may transfer, by lease only, improvements at defense nuclear facilities on land withdrawn from the public domain, that are unneeded, temporarily underutilized, or underutilized, for the purpose of permitting economic development and for facilitating local reuse or redevelopment.
[65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 67927, Nov. 13, 2013]
§ 770.3
What general limitations apply to this part?
(a) Nothing in this part affects or modifies in any way section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).
(b) Individual proposals for transfers of property are subject to NEPA review as implemented by 10 CFR part 1021.
(c) Any indemnification agreed to by the DOE is subject to the availability of funds.
§ 770.4
What definitions are used in this part?
Community Reuse Organization or CRO
means a governmental or non-governmental organization that is recognized by DOE and that represents a community adversely affected by DOE work force restructuring at a defense nuclear facility..
Claim
means a request for reimbursement of monetary damages.
Defense Nuclear Facility
means “Department of Energy defense nuclear facility” within the meaning of section 318 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286g).
DOE
means the United States Department of Energy.
DOE Field Office
means any of DOE's officially established organizations and components located outside the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. (See Field Office Manager.)
Economic Development
means the use of transferred DOE real property in a way that enhances the production, distribution, or consumption of goods and services in the surrounding region(s) or which furthers reuse or redevelopment, and furthers the public policy objectives of the laws governing the downsizing of DOE's defense nuclear facilities.
Field Office Manager
means the head of the DOE Operations Offices or Field Offices associated with the management and control of defense nuclear facilities.
Hazardous Substance
means a substance within the definition of “hazardous substances” in subchapter I of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) (42 U.S.C. 9601(14)).
Indemnification
means the responsibility for reimbursement of payment for any suit, claim, demand or action, liability, judgment, cost, or other fee arising out of any claim for personal injury or property damage, including business losses consistent with generally accepted accounting practices, which involve the covered real property transfers. Indemnification payments are subject to the availability of appropriated funds.
Person or Entity
means any state, any political subdivision of a state or any individual person that acquires ownership or control of real property at a defense nuclear facility.
Pollutant or Contaminant
means a substance identified within the definition of “pollutant or contaminant” in section 101(33) of CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 9601(33)).
Real Property
means all interest in land, together with the improvements, structures, and fixtures located on the land (usually including prefabricated or movable structures), and associated appurtenances under the control of any federal agency.
Release
means a “release” as defined in subchapter I of CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 9601(22)).
Underutilized Real Property or Temporarily Underutilized Real Property
means the entire property or a portion of the real property (with or without improvements) that is used only at irregular intervals, or which is used by current DOE missions that can be satisfied with only a portion of the real property. Underutilized property is available by lease only.
Unneeded Real Property
means any property under DOE control that the Field Office, cognizant program, or the Secretary of Energy have determined, according to applicable procedures, to be no longer needed for the purposes of conducting DOE business.
[65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 67927, Nov. 13, 2013]
§ 770.5
How does DOE notify persons and entities that defense nuclear facility real property is available for transfer for economic development?
(a) Field Office Managers annually make available to Community Reuse Organizations, local government, and Tribal nations, and other persons and entities a list of real property at defense nuclear facilities that DOE has identified as appropriate for transfer for economic development. Field Office Managers may use any effective means of publicity to notify potentially-interested persons or entities of the availability of the list.
(b) Upon request, Field Office Managers provide to interested persons and entities relevant information about listed real property, including information about a property's physical condition, environmental, safety and health matters, and any restrictions or terms of transfer.
[65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 67927, Nov. 13, 2013]
§ 770.6
May interested persons and entities request that real property at defense nuclear facilities be transferred for economic development?
Any person or entity may request that specific real property be made available for transfer for economic development pursuant to procedures in § 770.7. A person or entity must submit such a request in writing to the Field Office Manager who is responsible for the real property.
§ 770.7
What procedures are to be used to transfer real property at defense nuclear facilities for economic development?
(a)
Proposal.
The transfer process starts when a potential purchaser or lessee submits to the Field Office Manager a proposal for the transfer of real property that DOE has included on a list of available real property, as provided in § 770.5 of this part.
(1) A proposal must include (but is not limited to):
(i) A description of the real property proposed to be transferred;
(ii) The intended use and duration of use of the real property, including potential users and an indication that these users are interested in participating in the economic development of the property;
(iii) A description of the economic development that would be furthered by the transfer (
e.g.,
jobs to be created or retained, improvements to be made) or what reuse or reutilization would be
accomplished by means of a description of the business to be created (direct and indirect economic benefits that will result due to the proposed transfer);
(iv) Information supporting the economic viability of the proposed development; and
(v) The consideration offered and any financial requirements.
(2) The person or entity should state in the proposal whether it is or is not requesting indemnification against claims based on the release or threatened release of a hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant resulting from DOE activities.
(3) If a proposal for transfer does not contain a statement regarding indemnification, the Field Office Manager will notify the person or entity by letter of the potential availability of indemnification under this part, and will request that the person or entity either modify the proposal to include a request for indemnification or submit a statement that it is not seeking indemnification.
(b)
Decision to transfer real property.
After review of the proposal, DOE will notify, by letter, the person or entity that submitted the proposal of DOE's decision whether or not a transfer of the real property by sale or lease is in the best interest of the Government. If DOE determines the transfer is in the Government's best interest, then the Field Office Manger will begin development of a transfer agreement.
(c)
Congressional committee notification.
DOE may not transfer real property under this part until 30 days have elapsed after the date DOE notifies congressional defense committees of the proposed transfer. The Field Office Manager will notify congressional defense committees through the Secretary of Energy.
[65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 67927, Nov. 13, 2013]
§ 770.8
May DOE transfer real property at defense nuclear facilities for economic development at less than fair market value?
DOE generally attempts to obtain fair market value for real property transferred for economic development, but DOE may agree to sell or lease such property for less than fair market value if the statutory transfer authority used imposes no market value restriction, and:
(a) The real property requires considerable infrastructure improvements to make it economically viable, or
(b) A conveyance at less than market value would, in the DOE's judgment, further the public policy objectives of the laws governing the downsizing of defense nuclear facilities.
§ 770.9
What conditions apply to DOE indemnification of claims against a person or entity based on the release or threatened release of a hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant attributable to DOE?
(a) If an agreement for the transfer of real property for economic development contains an indemnification provision, the person or entity requesting indemnification for a particular claim must:
(1) Notify the Field Office Manager in writing within two years after such claim accrues under § 770.11 of this part;
(2) Furnish the Field Office Manager, or such other DOE official as the Field Office Manager designates, with evidence or proof of the claim;
(3) Furnish the Field Office Manager, or such other DOE official as the Field Office Manager designates, with copies of pertinent papers (
e.g.,
legal documents) received by the person or entity;
(4) If requested by DOE, provide access to records and personnel of the person or entity for purposes of defending or settling the claim; and
(5) Provide certification that the person or entity making the claim did not contribute to any such release or threatened release.
(b) DOE will enter into an indemnification agreement if DOE determines that indemnification is essential for the purpose of facilitating reuse or redevelopment.
(c) DOE may not indemnify any person or entity for a claim if the person or entity contributed to the release or threatened release of a hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant that is the basis of the claim.
(d) DOE may not indemnify a person or entity for a claim made under an indemnification agreement if the person or entity refuses to allow DOE to settle or defend the claim.
(e) Any indemnification provided will apply to any successor, assignee, transferee, lender or lessee of the original entity that acquires ownership or control.
[65 FR 10689, Feb. 29, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 67927, Nov. 13, 2013]
§ 770.10
When must a person or entity, who wishes to contest a DOE denial of request for indemnification of a claim, begin legal action?
If DOE denies the claim, DOE must provide the person or entity with a notice of final denial of the claim by DOE by certified or registered mail. The person or entity must begin legal action within six months after the date of mailing.
§ 770.11
When does a claim “accrue” for purposes of notifying the Field Office Manager under § 770.9(a) of this part?
For purposes of § 770.9(a) of this part, a claim “accrues” on the date on which the person asserting the claim knew, or reasonably should have known, that the injury to person or property was caused or contributed to by the release or threatened release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant as a result of DOE activities at the defense nuclear facility on which the real property is located.
Pt. 780

# PART 780—PATENT COMPENSATION BOARD REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
780.1
Scope.
780.2
Definitions.
780.3
Jurisdiction of the Patent Compensation Board.
780.4
Filing and service of documents.
780.5
Applications—General form, content, and filing.
780.6
Department participation.
780.7
Designation of interested persons as parties.
780.8
Security.
780.9
Make-up of the Patent Compensation Board.
780.10
Decision of the Board.
780.11
Records of the Board.

# Subpart B—Declaring Patents Affected With the Public Interest Under Section 153a of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
780.20
Initiation of proceeding.
780.21
Notice.
780.22
Opposition, support and request for hearing.
780.23
Hearing and decision.
780.24
Criteria for declaring a patent affected with the public interest.

# Subpart C—Application for a License Pursuant to Section 153b(2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
780.30
Filing of application.
780.31
Contents of application.
780.32
Response and request for hearing.
780.33
Hearing and decision.
780.34
Criteria for decision to issue a license.
780.35
Communication of decision to General Counsel.
780.36
Conditions and issuance of license.

# Subpart D—Application for a License Pursuant to Section 153c of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
780.40
Filing of application.
780.41
Contents of application.
780.42
Notice of hearing.
780.43
Response.
780.44
Hearing and decision.
780.45
Criteria for decision to issue a license.
780.46
Communication of decision to General Counsel.
780.47
Conditions and issuance of license.

# Subpart E—Application for Royalties and Awards Under Section 157 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Compensation Under Section 173 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183)
780.50
Applicants.
780.51
Form and content.
780.52
Notice and hearing.
780.53
Criteria for decisions for royalties, awards and compensation.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7151, 7254; 42 U.S.C. 5814, 5815; 42 U.S.C. 2183, 2187, 2223; 35 U.S.C. 183; North American Free Trade Agreement, Article 1709(10), as implemented by the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementing Act, Pub. L. 103-182.

# Source:
46 FR 39581, Aug. 4, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 780.1
Scope.
The regulations in this part establish the procedures, terms, and conditions for Patent Compensation Board:
(a) Proceedings to declare a patent affected with the public interest pursuant to section 153a of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (Pub. L. 83-703; 42 U.S.C. 2183);
(b) Proceedings to determine a reasonable royalty fee pursuant to section 157 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954;
(c) Proceedings for the grant of an award pursuant to section 157 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954;
(d) Proceedings to obtain compensation pursuant to section 173 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183);
And for applications to the Department of Energy (DOE) for a patent license pursuant to sections 153b(2) and 153c of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
§ 780.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (Pub. L. 83-703; 42 U.S.C. 2011).
(b)
Application
means the application filed by an applicant for a patent license, for the determination of a reasonable royalty fee, for an award, or for compensation under this part.
(c)
Board
means the Patent Compensation Board.
(d)
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Patent Compensation Board.
(e)
Department,
or
DOE,
or
Department of Energy
means the Department of Energy, established by the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91; 42 U.S.C. 7101).
(f)
Party
means the applicant, patent owner, Department representative, and any person admitted as a party by the Board for any proceeding under this part.
(g)
Patent Owner
means the owner of record in the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
(h)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of Energy or the delegate of the Secretary of Energy.
§ 780.3
Jurisdiction of the Patent Compensation Board.
The Patent Compensation Board was established by section 157 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. It was transferred to the Energy Research and Development Administration pursuant to section 104(d) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5814) and subsequently to the Department of Energy by section 301 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7151). Under section 157, the Board is given authority to determine reasonable royalty fees or resolve issues involving the grant of awards. In addition, the Board has authority:
(a) To hear and make decisions as to compensation under section 173 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2223) and the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183);
(b) To hear and make decisions as to whether a specific patent is affected with the public interest pursuant to section 153a of the Act;
(c) To hear and make decisions as to whether a specific patent license should be granted under sections 153b(2) and 153e of the Act;
(d) To give notices, hold hearings and take such other actions as may be necessary under section 153; and
(e) To exercise all powers available under the Act and necessary for the performance of these duties, including the issuance of such rules of procedure as may be necessary.
§ 780.4
Filing and service of documents.
(a) All communications regarding proceedings subject to this part should be addressed to: Chairman, Patent Compensation Board, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585. All documents offered for filing shall be accompanied by proof of service upon all parties to the proceeding or their attorneys of record as required by law, rule, or order of the Department. Service on the Department shall be by mail or delivery to: Office of Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585.
(b) Filing by mail will be deemed to be complete as of the time of deposit in the United States mail.
[77 FR 4887, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 780.5
Applications—General form, content, and filing.
(a) Each application shall be signed by the applicant and shall state the applicant's name and address. If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall be signed by an authorized officer of the corporation, and the application shall indicate the state of incorporation. Where the applicant elects to be represented by counsel, a signed notice to that effect shall be filed with the Board.
(b) Each application must contain a concise statement of all of the essential facts upon which it is based. No particular form of statement is required. Each application shall be verified by the applicant or by the person having the best knowledge of such facts. In the case of facts stated on information and belief, the source of such information and grounds of belief shall be given.
(c) Each application must identify any person whose interest the applicant believes may be affected by the proceeding before the Board.
(d) Three copies of each application shall be filed with the Board. However, only one copy of the accompanying exhibits need be filed.
(e) The Board will acknowledge the receipt of the application in writing and advise the applicant of the docket number assigned to the application.
§ 780.6
Department participation.
The Department shall be a party to all proceedings under this part, and the Office of the General Counsel will represent the Department's interests before the Board.
§ 780.7
Designation of interested persons as parties.
In any proceeding under this part, the Board shall admit as a party any person, upon application of such person or on the Board's own initiative, whose interest may be affected by the proceeding.
§ 780.8
Security.
In any proceeding under this part, the Board shall take such steps as necessary pursuant to chapter 12 of the Act and section 181 of the Act to assure compliance with Department security regulations and the common defense.
§ 780.9
Make-up of the Patent Compensation Board.
The DOE Secretary of Energy, or a person acting in that position, shall appoint a three member panel to serve as the Patent Compensation Board to hear and decide cases falling under the subject matter jurisdiction set forth in § 780.3 of this part. The Secretary of Energy shall further designate one member as the chairman. The Board may be appointed to hear cases on an ad hoc basis, or on other such term of service deemed appropriate by the Secretary. All proceedings shall be conducted pursuant to rules of procedure provided by the Board.
[77 FR 4887, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 780.10
Decision of the Board.
The decision of the Board in any proceeding under this part shall constitute the final action of the Department on the matter.
§ 780.11
Records of the Board.
The records of the Board in cases filed before it, including the pleadings, the transcript, and the final decision, shall be open to public inspection, except to the extent that such records or portions thereof are withheld from disclosure by the Board pursuant to 10 CFR part 1004.

# Subpart B—Declaring Patents Affected With the Public Interest Under Section 153a of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
§ 780.20
Initiation of proceeding.
When any person in the Department believes that the Department should declare a patent affected with the public interest pursuant to section 153a of the Act, that person shall make such a recommendation to the Under Secretary. If, after consultation with the General Counsel, the Under Secretary
agrees with the recommendation, the Under Secretary shall initiate in writing a proceeding under section 153a before the Board. The communication of the Under Secretary to the Board shall identify the patent and state the basis for the proposed declaration.
§ 780.21
Notice.
The Board will serve upon the patent owner and all other parties a written notice of the Department's proposed action to declare the patent affected with the public interest, and the notice shall identify the patent and state the basis for the proposed declaration.
§ 780.22
Opposition, support and request for hearing.
(a) Any party may, within thirty (30) days after service of the notice or such other time as may be provided by the terms of the notice, file with the Board a written statement in opposition to or in support of the Department's proposed action. Such statement may also include a request for hearing. The statement shall contain a concise description of the facts, law, or any other relevant matter which the party believes should be reviewed by the Board during its consideration of the proposed declaration. If the request for a hearing is timely received, the Board shall call a hearing and provide notice of the time and place to all parties.
(b) Failure of all parties to oppose the proposed action or to request a hearing within the time specified in the notice shall be deemed an acquiescence to that action and may result in a declaration by the Board that the patent is affected with the public interest.
§ 780.23
Hearing and decision.
If a timely request for a hearing is made by any party, the Board will proceed with a hearing and decision. If a hearing is not requested, the Board shall prepare and issue its decision on the record.
§ 780.24
Criteria for declaring a patent affected with the public interest.
A patent shall be declared to be affected with the public interest pursuant to section 153a of the Act upon the Board's final decision that:
(a) The invention or discovery covered by the patent is of primary importance in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy; and
(b) The licensing of such invention or discovery under section 153 of the Act is of primary importance to effectuate the policies and purposes of the Act.

# Subpart C—Application for a License Pursuant to Section 153b(2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
§ 780.30
Filing of application.
An applicant for a license pursuant to section 153b(2) of the Act, under a patent which the Department has declared to be affected with the public interest, shall file an application with the Board in accordance with § 780.5. The Board will docket the application and serve notice of the docketing upon all parties.
§ 780.31
Contents of application.
Each application shall contain, in addition to the requirements specified in § 780.5, the following information:
(a) The activities in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy to which applicant proposes to apply the patent license;
(b) The nature and purpose of the applicant's intended use of the patent license;
(c) The relationship of the invention or discovery to the authorized activities to which it is to be applied, including an estimate of the effect on such activities stemming from the grant or denial of the license;
(d) Efforts made by the applicant to obtain a patent license from the owner of the patent;
(e) Terms, if any, on which the owner of the patent proposes to grant the applicant a patent license;
(f) The terms the applicant proposes for the patent license; and
(g) A request for either a hearing or a decision on the record.
§ 780.32
Response and request for hearing.
Any party within thirty (30) days after service of the notice of docketing of the application:
(a) May file with the Board a response containing a concise statement of the facts or law or any other relevant information which that party believes should be considered by the Board in opposition to or in support of the proposed application; and
(b) May file a request for a hearing or for a decision on the record.
§ 780.33
Hearing and decision.
If any party requests a hearing, the Board will proceed with a hearing and decision. If a hearing is not requested, the Board shall on the basis of the record prepare and issue its decision.
§ 780.34
Criteria for decision to issue a license.
A license shall issue to the applicant to use the invention covered by the patent declared to be affected with the public interest pursuant to subsection 153b(2) of the Act upon a final decision that:
(a) The activities to which the patent license is proposed to be applied are of primary importance to the applicant's conduct of an activity authorized under the Act; and
(b) The applicant has made efforts to obtain reasonable commercial terms and conditions and such efforts have not been successful within a reasonable period of time. The requirement to make such efforts may be waived by the Board in the case of a national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency or in cases of public non-commercial use. Where this requirement is waived due to national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency, the owner of the patent shall be notified as soon as reasonably practicable. Where this requirement is waived for a public non-commercial use, the owner of the patent shall be notified promptly.
[46 FR 39581, Aug. 4, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 68734, Dec. 29, 1993]
§ 780.35
Communication of decision to General Counsel.
Following a determination to issue a patent license under section 153b(2) of the Act, the Board shall send the decision to the General Counsel and instruct the General Counsel to issue the license on terms deemed equitable by the Department and generally not less fair than those granted by the patentee or by the Department to similar licensees for comparable use.
§ 780.36
Conditions and issuance of license.
(a) Upon receipt of the Board's decision and instruction to issue a patent license, the General Counsel shall issue a license which complies with the following:
(1) The scope and durations of such use shall be limited to the purpose for which it was authorized;
(2) Such use shall be non-exclusive;
(3) Such use shall be non-assignable, except with that part of the enterprise or goodwill that enjoys such use;
(4) Any such use shall be authorized predominantly for the supply of the U.S. market; and,
(5) Authorization for such use shall be liable, subject to adequate protection of the legitimate interests of the persons so authorized, to be terminated if and when the circumstances that led to it cease to exist and are unlikely to recur.
(b) The Board shall have the authority to review, on motivated request, the continued existence of these circumstances. The parties will propose and agree on a reasonable royalty fee within a reasonable time as determined by the General Counsel. A reasonable royalty shall provide adequate remuneration for the circumstances of each case, taking into account the economic value of the authorization. If a party does not agree with the terms and conditions of the license as determined by the General Counsel or if a royalty fee cannot be agreed upon within the reasonable time period established by the General Counsel, any party may, within 30 days after the expiration of such
time period, initiate a proceeding before the Board, in accordance with subpart E of this part, for a reconsideration of the General Counsel's determination. After the proceeding under subpart E of this part is completed, the General Counsel shall modify the patent license in accordance with the Board's determination.
[58 FR 68734, Dec. 29, 1993]

# Subpart D—Application for a License Pursuant to Section 153c of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
§ 780.40
Filing of application.
An application to the Department, pursuant to section 153c of the Act, for the issuance of a license to use the invention or discovery covered by a patent useful in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy shall be filed with the Board in accordance with requirements of § 780.5.
§ 780.41
Contents of application.
In addition to the information specified in § 780.5, each application shall contain the following:
(a) The applicant's contention, with supporting data, that the invention or discovery covered by the patent is of primary importance in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy;
(b) The applicant's contention, with supporting data, that the licensing of such invention or discovery is of primary importance to the conduct of the activities of the applicant, including information concerning:
(1) The activities in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy to which applicant proposes to apply the license;
(2) The nature and purpose of the applicant's intended use of the patent license; and
(3) The relationship of the invention or discovery to the activities to which it is to be applied, including an estimate of the effect of such activities stemming from the grant or denial of the license.
(c) The applicant's contention, with supporting data, that the activities to which the patent license are proposed to be applied are of primary importance to the furtherance of policies and purposes of the Act;
(d) The applicant's contention, with supporting data, that such applicant cannot otherwise obtain a patent license from the owner of the patent on terms which are reasonable for the applicant's intended use of the patent, including information concerning:
(1) Efforts made by applicant to obtain a patent license from the owner of the patent; and
(2) Terms, if any, on which the owner of the patent proposed to grant applicant a patent license.
(e) The terms the applicant proposes as reasonable for the patent license; and
(f) A copy of any license, permit, or lease obtained by the applicant under the procedures outlined in section 153(c) of the Act.
§ 780.42
Notice of hearing.
Within thirty (30) days after the filing of the application, the Board will serve on all parties a notice of hearing to be held not later than sixty (60) days after the filing of the application.
§ 780.43
Response.
Any party may file a response with the Board containing a concise statement of the facts or law or any other relevant information in opposition to or in support of the application which that party believes should be considered by the Board. Such response must be filed by a party within twenty (20) days after being served a copy of the application.
§ 780.44
Hearing and decision.
In accordance with section 153d of the Act, the Board shall hold a hearing and issue a final decision on the application.
§ 780.45
Criteria for decision to issue a license.
A license shall issue to the applicant to use the invention covered by the patent for the purposes stated in the application upon a final decision that:
(a) The invention or discovery covered by the patent is of primary importance in the production or utilization
of special nuclear material or atomic energy;
(b) The licensing of such invention or discovery is of primary importance to the conduct of the activities of the applicant;
(c) The activities to which the patent license is proposed to be applied by such applicant are of primary importance to the furtherance of policies and purposes of the Act; and
(d) The applicant has made efforts to obtain reasonable commercial terms and conditions and such efforts have not been successful within a reasonable period of time. The requirement to make such efforts may be waived by the Board in the case of a national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency or in cases of public non-commercial use. Where this requirement is waived due to national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency, the owner of the patent shall be notified as soon as reasonably practicable. Where this requirement is waived for a public non-commercial use, the owner of the patent shall be notified promptly.
[46 FR 39581, Aug. 4, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 68734, Dec. 29, 1993]
§ 780.46
Communication of decision to General Counsel.
When the Board decides to issue a patent license under section 153c of the Act, the Board shall send the decision to the General Counsel and instruct the General Counsel to issue the license on terms deemed equitable by the Department and generally not less fair than those granted by the patentee or by the Department to similar licensees for comparable use.
§ 780.47
Conditions and issuance of license.
(a) Upon receipt of the Board's decision and instruction to issue a patent license, the General Counsel shall issue a license which complies with the following:
(1) The scope and durations of such use shall be limited to the purpose for which it was authorized;
(2) Such use shall be non-exclusive;
(3) Such use shall be non-assignable, except with that part of the enterprise or goodwill that enjoys such use;
(4) Any such use shall be authorized predominantly for the supply of the U.S. market; and,
(5) Authorization for such use shall be liable, subject to adequate protection of the legitimate interests of the persons so authorized, to be terminated if and when the circumstances that led to it cease to exist and are unlikely to recur.
(b) The Board shall have the authority to review, on motivated request, the continued existence of these circumstances. The parties will propose and agree on a reasonable royalty fee within a reasonable time as determined by the General Counsel. A reasonable royalty shall provide adequate remuneration for the circumstances of each case, taking into account the economic value of the authorization. If a party does not agree with the terms and conditions of the license as determined by the General Counsel or if a royalty fee cannot be agreed upon within the reasonable time period established by the General Counsel, any party may, within 30 days after the expiration of such time period, initiate a proceeding before the Board, in accordance with subpart E of this part, for a reconsideration of the General Counsel's determination. After the proceeding under subpart E of this part is completed, the General Counsel shall modify the patent license in accordance with the Board's determination.
[46 FR 39581, Aug. 4, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 68734, Dec. 29, 1993]

# Subpart E—Application for Royalties and Awards Under Section 157 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Compensation Under Section 173 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183)
§ 780.50
Applicants.
(a) Any owner or licensee of a patent licensed under section 158 or subsections b or e of section 153 of the Act may file an application with the Board for the determination of a reasonable royalty fee.
(b) Any owner or licensee of a patent licensed under subsections b or e of section 153 of the Act may file an application with the Board for the modification of any terms and conditions of the license.
(c) Any person who has made an invention or discovery useful in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy, has complied with the provisions of section 151c, but, under the Act, is not entitled to a royalty for such invention or discovery, may file an application for an award.
(d) Any owner of a patent application that contains restricted data not belonging to the United States which the Department has communicated to any foreign nation may make application for just compensation pursuant to section 173 of the Act.
(e) Any patent applicant, whose patent is withheld because of a secrecy order issued at the request of the Department may, beginning at the date the patent applicant is notified that, except for such order, the application is otherwise in condition for allowance, apply for compensation for the damage caused by the secrecy order and/or for the use of the invention by the Government, resulting from any disclosure to the Department required by the Invention Secrecy Act.
§ 780.51
Form and content.
(a) Each application shall contain a statement of the applicant's interest in the patent, patent application, invention or discovery and identify any other claimants of whom the applicant has knowledge.
(b) Each application must contain a concise statement of all of the essential facts upon which it is based. No particular form of statement is required, but it will facilitate consideration of the application if the following specific data accompany the application:
(1) In the case of an issued patent, a copy of the patent.
(2) In the case of a patent application, a copy of the application and of all Patent and Trademark Office actions and responses thereto.
(3) In the case of an invention or discovery as to which a report has been filed with the Department pursuant to subsection c of section 151 of the Act, a copy of such report.
(4) In the case of an award, the date relied upon as the date of invention.
(5) In all cases, a statement of the extent to which the invention or discovery was developed through federally financed research or with other Federal support.
(6) In all cases, the degree of the utility, novelty, and importance of the invention or discovery.
(7) In all cases, a statement of the actual use by the Federal Government or others of such invention or discovery, to the extent known to the applicant.
(8) In all cases, the cost of developing the invention or discovery and acquiring the patent or patent application.
(9) The royalty fee proposed, the proposed terms and conditions of a license agreement, or the amount sought as compensation or award, as well as the basis used in calculating such fee, compensation or award and whether a lump sum or periodic payments are sought.
(10) In an application for just compensation pursuant to section 173 of the Act, the ownership of the invention that is the subject matter of the patent application at the time the Department communicated the restricted data shall be set forth, and any restricted data contained in the application shall be specifically identified.
(11) In an application for compensation under the authority provided in the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183), for the damage caused by imposition of a secrecy order on a patent application and/or for the use of the invention by the Government, the date of the secrecy order, the date of the notice that the patent application is in condition for allowance, and, if known to the applicant, the date of the first use of the invention by the Government.
§ 780.52
Notice and hearing.
The Board shall, in its discretion, afford the applicable party an opportunity for a hearing for the presentation of relevant evidence. Thirty (30) days notice shall be given of the time and place of such hearing. After expiration of the notice period, the Board
shall proceed with a hearing and render its decision.
§ 780.53
Criteria for decisions for royalties, awards and compensation.
(a) In deciding a reasonable royalty fee for a patent licensed under section 158 or sections 153b or 153e of the Act, the Board shall consider:
(1) The economic value of the compulsory license and the Board shall strive to provide adequate remuneration for the circumstances of each case.
(2) Any defense, general or special, that a defendant could plead in an action for infringement;
(3) The extent to which such patent was developed through federally financed research or with other Federal support;
(4) The degree of utility, novelty, and importance of the invention or discovery; and
(5) The cost to the owner of the patent of developing such invention or discovery or of acquiring such patent.
(b) In deciding whether or not to grant an award, under section 157 of the Act, for the making of an invention or discovery useful in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy, the Board shall take into account the considerations set forth in § 780.53(a) of this part and the actual use of such invention or discovery.
(c) In deciding whether or not to provide compensation, pursuant to section 173 of the Act, to a person who owns a patent application that contains restricted data not belonging to the United States which the Department has communicated to a foreign nation, the Board shall take into account the considerations set forth in § 780.53(b) of this part and the damage to the applicant resulting from such communication.
(d) In the course of its review of an application to provide compensation, pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 183, to an applicant whose patent was withheld because of a secrecy order issued at the request of the Department, the Board shall take into account the considerations set forth in § 780.53(b) of this part and:
(1) The damage sustained by the applicant as a result of the secrecy order; and
(2) The use of the invention by the Government resulting from the disclosure of such invention to the Department.
[46 FR 39581, Aug. 4, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 68735, Dec. 29, 1993]
Pt. 781

# PART 781—DOE PATENT LICENSING REGULATIONS

# General Provisions
Sec.
781.1
Scope.
781.2
Policy.
781.3
[Reserved]
781.4
Communications.

# Types of Licenses and Conditions for Licensing
781.51-781.52
[Reserved]
781.52
[Reserved]
781.53
Additional licenses.

# Procedures
781.61-781.64
[Reserved]
781.65
Appeals.
781.66
[Reserved]

# Special Provisions
781.71
[Reserved]
781.81
[Reserved]

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2186, 42 U.S.C. 2201(g), and 35 U.S.C. 207-209.

# Source:
45 FR 73447, Nov. 4, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 781.1
Scope.
The regulations of this part supplement the U.S. Department of Commerce regulations, entitled LICENSING OF GOVERNMENT OWNED INVENTIONS, at 37 CFR Part 404.
[77 FR 4889, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 781.2
Policy.
(a) It is the policy of this regulation to use the patent system to promote the utilization of inventions arising from Department of Energy supported research and development.
(b) Decisions as to grants or denials of any license application will, in the discretion of the Secretary of Energy,
be based on the Department of Energy's view of what is in the best interests of the United States and the general public under the provisions of these regulations. Decisions of the Department of Energy under these regulations may be made on the Secretary of Energy's behalf by the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, except where otherwise delegated.
[77 FR 4889, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 781.3
[Reserved]
§ 781.4
Communications.
All communications concerning the regulations in this part, including applications for licenses, should be addressed or delivered to the General Counsel, Attention: Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585.
[77 FR 4889, Feb. 1, 2012]

# Types of Licenses and Conditions for Licensing
§§ 781.51-781.52
[Reserved]
§ 781.53
Additional licenses.
Subject to any outstanding licenses, nothing in this part shall preclude the Department of Energy from granting additional nonexclusive, or exclusive, or partially exclusive licenses for inventions covered by this part when the Department of Energy determines that to do so would provide for an equitable exchange of patent rights. The following circumstances are examples in which such licenses may be granted:
(a) In consideration of the settlement of interferences or other administrative proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office;
(b) In consideration of a release of any claims;
(c) In exchange for or as a part of the consideration for a license under adversely held patents;
(d) As necessary for meeting obligations of the U.S. under any treaty, international agreement arrangement or cooperation, memorandum of understanding or similar arrangement; or
(e) In consideration for the settlement or resolution of any proceeding under the Department of Energy Organization Act or other law.
[77 FR 4889, Feb. 1, 2012]

# Procedures
§§ 781.61-781.64
[Reserved]
§ 781.65
Appeals.
(a) Standing. The following parties have the right to appeal under this part:
(1) Pursuant to 37 CFR 404.11:
(i) A person whose application for a license has been denied;
(ii) A licensee whose license has been modified or terminated, in whole or in part;
(iii) A person who timely filed a written objection in response to the notice required by 37 CFR 404.7(a)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(i) and who can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Federal agency that such person may be damaged by the agency action; or
(2) A management and operating contractor appealing an agency decision to grant a copyright license to a third party pursuant to the Rights in Data-Technology Transfer clause for DOE management and operating contracts per 48 CFR part 970.
(b) Notice of Appeal. Appeal under paragraph (a) of this section shall be initiated by filing a Notice of Appeal with the Secretary, ATTN: Deputy General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Procurement (“Deputy General Counsel”), within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of a written notice by the Department of Energy of an action set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The Notice of Appeal shall specify the portion of the decision from which the appeal is taken. A statement of fact and argument in the form of a brief in support of the appeal shall be submitted with the Notice of Appeal or within thirty (30) days thereafter.
(c) Procedure. Appeals under this section shall be conducted pursuant to rules of procedure provided by the Deputy General Counsel.
(d) Within sixty (60) days of receiving appellant's brief pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or such other time
period set by the Deputy General Counsel, the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property shall submit to the Deputy General Counsel a response brief and shall timely serve a copy of the response brief to appellant.
(e) The Deputy General Counsel shall consider the facts and arguments submitted in appellant's brief submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, as well as those presented by the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property. An appeal by a licensee under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may include a hearing, upon request of the licensee, to address a dispute over any relevant fact. Such request for a hearing must be received by the Deputy General Counsel within thirty (30) days of appellant's receipt of the response brief.
(f) The Deputy General Counsel shall issue a written decision, which shall constitute the final action of the Department on the matter.
(g) The parties may agree to Alternate Dispute Resolution in lieu of an appeal.
(h) Appeals Arising Under National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) Management and Operating Contracts. For appeals pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section arising under management and operating contracts administered by NNSA for NNSA facilities, the NNSA Deputy General Counsel for Procurement shall be designated as the appeal authority (Deputy General Counsel) pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
[77 FR 4890, Feb. 1, 2012]
§ 781.66
[Reserved]

# Special Provisions
§ 781.71
[Reserved]
§ 781.81
[Reserved]
Pt. 782

# PART 782—CLAIMS FOR PATENT AND COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
782.1
Purpose.
782.2
Objectives.
782.3
Authority.

# Subpart B—Requirements and Procedures
782.5
Contents of communication initiating claim.
782.6
Processing of administrative claims.
782.7
Incomplete notice of infringement.
782.8
Indirect notice of infringement.

# Authority:
Dept. of Energy Organization Act; sec. 651, 91 Stat. 601, 42 U.S.C. 7261; Atomic Energy Act of 1954; sec. 107(d), 88 Stat. 1241, 42 U.S.C. 5817(d); sec. 161(g), 80 Stat. 443, 42 U.S.C. 2201(g); sec. 172, 62 Stat. 933, 42 U.S.C. 2223; Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, sec. 2356, 75 Stat. 440, 22 U.S.C. 2356; Patents, Invention Secrecy Act; sec. 183, 66 Stat. 4, 35 U.S.C. 183; Judiciary and Judical Procedure Act, sec. 1498, 62 Stat. 601, 28 U.S.C. 1498.

# Source:
45 FR 26950, Apr. 22, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 782.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to set forth policies and procedures for the filing and disposition of claims asserted against the Department of Energy of infringement of privately owned rights in patented inventions or copyrighted works.
§ 782.2
Objectives.
Whenever a claim of infringement of privately owned rights in patented inventions or copyrighted works is asserted against the Department of Energy, all necessary steps shall be taken to investigate and to settle administratively, to deny, or otherwise to dispose of such claim prior to suit against the United States.
§ 782.3
Authority.
The General Counsel or the General Counsel's delegate is authorized to investigate, settle, deny, or otherwise dispose of all claims of patent and copyright infringement pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2201(g), 2223, 5817(d) and 7261; the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 22 U.S.C. 2356 (formerly the Mutual Security Acts of 1951 and 1954); the Invention Secrecy Act, 35 U.S.C. 183; and 28 U.S.C. 1498.

# Subpart B—Requirements and Procedures
§ 782.5
Contents of communication initiating claim.
(a)
Requirements for claim.
A patent or copyright infringement claim for compensation, asserted against the United States as represented by the Department of Energy under any of the applicable statutes cited in § 782.3, must be actually communicated to and received by an agency, organization, office, or field establishment within the Department of Energy. Claims must be in writing and must include the following:
(1) An allegation of infringement;
(2) A request, either expressed or implied, for compensation;
(3) A citation of the patents or copyrighted items alleged to be infringed;
(4) In the case of a patent infringement claim, a sufficiently specific designation to permit identification of the items or processes alleged to infringe the patents, giving the commercial designation if known to the claimant, or, in the case of a copyright infringement claim, the acts alleged to infringe the copyright;
(5) In the case of a patent infringement claim, a designation of at least one claim of each patent alleged to be infringed or, in the case of a copyright infringement claim, a copy of each work alleged to be infringed;
(6) As an alternative to paragraphs (a) (4) and (5) of this section, certification that the claimant has made a bona fide attempt to determine the items or processes which are alleged to infringe the patents, or the acts alleged to infringe the copyrights, but was unable to do so, giving reasons, and stating a reasonable basis for the claimant's belief that the patents or copyrighted items are being infringed.
(b)
Additional information for patent infringement claims.
In addition to the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section the following material and information generally is necessary in the course of processing a claim of patent infringement. Claimants are encouraged to furnish this information at the time of filing a claim to permit rapid processing and resolution of the claim.
(1) A copy of the asserted patents and identification of all claims of the patents alleged to be infringed.
(2) Identification of all procurements known to claimant that involve the accused items or processes, including the identity of the vendors or contractors and the Government acquisition activity or activities.
(3) A detailed identification and description of the accused articles or processes, particularly where the articles or processes relate to components or subcomponents of the item acquired, and an element-by-element comparison of representative claims with the accused articles or processes. If available, the identification and description should include documentation and drawings to illustrate the accused articles or processes in sufficient detail to enable verification that the claims of the asserted patents read on the accused articles or processes.
(4) Names and addresses of all past and present licensees under the patents and copies of all license agreements and releases involving the patents.
(5) A brief description of all litigation in which the patents have been or are now involved, and their present status.
(6) A list of all persons to whom notices of infringement have been sent, including all departments and agencies of the Government, and a statement of the status or ultimate disposition of each.
(7) A description of Government employment or military service, if any, by the inventors or patent owner.
(8) A list of all contracts between the Government and inventors, patent owner, or anyone in privity with them that were in effect at the time of conception or actual reduction to practice of the inventions covered by the patents.
(9) Evidence of title to the asserted patents or other right to make the claim.
(10) If it is available to claimant, a copy of the Patent Office file of each patent.
(11) Pertinent prior art of which the claimant has become aware after issuance of the asserted patents.
In addition to the foregoing, if claimant can provide a statement that the
investigation may be limited to the specifically identified accused articles or processes, or to a specific acquisition (e.g. identified contracts), it may speed disposition of the claim.
(c)
Denial for refusal to provide information.
In the course of investigating a claim, it may become necessary for the Department of Energy to request information in the control and custody of claimant that is relevant to the disposition of the claim. Failure of the claimant to respond to a request for such information may be sufficient reason alone for denying a claim.
§ 782.6
Processing of administrative claims.
(a)
Filing and forwarding of claims.
All communications regarding claims should be addressed to:
General Counsel, ATTN: Assistant General Counsel for Patents, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20545.
If any communication relating to a claim or possible claim of patent or copyright infringement is received by an agency, organization, office, or field establishment within the Department of Energy, it should be forwarded to the Assistant General Counsel for Patents.
(b)
Disposition and notification.
The General Counsel shall investigate and administratively settle, deny, or otherwise dispose of each claim by denial or settlement. When a claim is denied, the Department shall so notify the claimant or his authorized representative and provide the claimant with the reasons for denying the claim. Disclosure of information shall be subject to applicable statutes, regulations, and directives pertaining to security, access to official records, and the rights of others.
§ 782.7
Incomplete notice of infringement.
(a) If a communication alleging patent or copyright infringement is received that does not meet the requirements set forth above in § 782.5, the sender shall be advised in writing by the General Counsel:
(1) That the claim for infringement has not been satisfactorily presented; and
(2) Of the elements considered necessary to establish a claim.
(b) A communication, such as a mere offer of a license, in which an infringement is not alleged in accordance with § 782.5(a) of this part shall not be considered a claim for infringement.
§ 782.8
Indirect notice of infringement.
If a patent or copyright owner communicates an allegation of infringement in the performance of a Government contract, grant, or other arrangement to addressees other than those specified in § 782.5(a), such as Department of Energy contractors including contractors operating government-owned facilities, the communication shall not be considered a claim within the meaning of § 782.5 until it meets the requirements of that section.
Pt. 783

# PART 783—WAIVER OF PATENT RIGHTS
Sec.
783.1
Waiver.
783.2
Limitations.

# Authority:
Secs. 152, 161, 68 Stat. 944, 948, as amended; (42 U.S.C. 2182, 2201).

# Source:
41 FR 56784, Dec. 30, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 783.1
Waiver.
The Department of Energy, hereinafter “DOE”, waives its rights under section 152 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (66 Stat. 944) with respect to inventions and discoveries resulting from the use of the following materials and services:
(a) Source materials, special nuclear materials, and heavy water distributed by DOE in accordance with the “Schedules of Base Charges for Materials Sold of Leased by DOE for Use in Private Atomic Energy Development and Base Prices Which DOE Will Pay for Certain Products From Private Reactors.”
(b) Radioactive and stable isotopes, irradiation services (this waiver does not include inventions or discoveries made by DOE or DOE contractor personnel in the course of or in connection
with the performance of an irradiation service), and radioactive material resulting from the performance of an irradiation service sold or distributed by DOE in accordance with the prices and charges established by:
(1) Oak Ridge National Laboratory Inventory and Price List of electromagnetically enriched and other stable isotopes.
(2) Oak Ridge National Laboratory Catalog and Price List of radioisotopes, special materials, and services.
(3) Idaho National Engineering Laboratory Catalog of Price and charges on irradiation services at the materials testing reactor. The waiver does include inventions or discoveries made by sponsor personnel in the course of their use of the Gamma Irradiation Facility at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory.
(4) Argonne National Laboratory schedule of charges for irradiation services at its irradiation facilities.
(5) Brookhaven National Laboratory schedule of prices and charges for irradiation services and radioisotopes.
§ 783.2
Limitations.
(a) Except with regard to the use of the Gamma facility at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to waive any rights in inventions or discoveries where a person or a group of persons acting on behalf of the person requesting the irradiation service works at the DOE facility in connection with the irradiation service. In such event, special arrangements are made.
(b) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to affect the provisions of any written agreement to which DOE has or may become a party.
Pt. 784

# PART 784—PATENT WAIVER REGULATION
Sec.
784.1
Scope and applicability.
784.2
Definitions.
784.3
Policy.
784.4
Advance waiver.
784.5
Waiver of identified inventions.
784.6
National security considerations for waiver of certain sensitive inventions.
784.7
Class waiver.
784.8
Procedures.
784.9
Content of waiver requests.
784.10
Record of waiver determinations.
784.11
Bases for granting waivers.
784.12
Terms and conditions of waivers.
784.13
Effective dates.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7151; 42 U.S.C. 5908; 42 U.S.C. 2182; 35 U.S.C. 202 and 210; 42 U.S.C. 7261a.

# Source:
61 FR 36614, July 12, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 784.1
Scope and applicability.
(a) This part states the policy and establishes the procedures, terms and conditions governing waiver of the Government's rights in inventions made under contracts, grants, agreements, understandings or other arrangements with the Department of Energy (DOE).
(b) This part applies to all inventions conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under any contract, grant, agreement, understanding, or other arrangement with or for the benefit of DOE (including any subcontract, subgrant, or subagreement), the patent rights disposition of which is governed by section 152 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2182, or section 9 of the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5908. In funding agreements with nonprofit organizations or small business firms, when title or other rights are reserved to the Government under the authority of 35 U.S.C. 202(a), this part will apply to any waiver of such rights. The patent waiver provisions in this part supersede the patent waiver regulations previously included with patent regulations at 41 CFR part 9-9.100.
§ 784.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Contract
means procurement contracts, grants, agreements, understandings and other arrangements (including Cooperative Research and Development Agreements [CRADAs], Work for Others and User Facility agreements, which includes research, development, or demonstration work, and includes any assignment or substitution of the parties, entered into, with, or for the benefit of DOE.
Contractor
means entities performing under contracts as defined above.
Patent Counsel
means the DOE Patent Counsel assisting the contracting activity.
§ 784.3
Policy.
(a) Section 6 of Public Law 96-517 (the Bayh-Dole patent and trademark amendments of 1980), as amended, as codified at 35 U.S.C. 200—212, provides that title to inventions conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under any contract, grant, agreement, understanding, or other arrangement entered into with or for the benefit of the Department of Energy (DOE) vests in the United States, except where 35 U.S.C. 202 provides otherwise for nonprofit organizations or small business firms. However, where title to such inventions vests in the United States, the Secretary of Energy (hereinafter Secretary) or designee may waive all or any part of the rights of the United States, subject to required terms and conditions, with respect to any invention or class of inventions made or which may be made by any person or class of persons in the course of or under any contract of DOE if it is determined that the interests of the United States and the general public will best be served by such waiver. In making such determinations, the Secretary or designee shall have the following objectives:
(1) Making the benefits of the energy research, development, and demonstration program widely available to the public in the shortest practicable time;
(2) Promoting the commercial utilization of such inventions;
(3) Encouraging participation by private persons in DOE's energy research, development, and demonstration programs; and
(4) Fostering competition and preventing undue market concentration or the creation or maintenance of other situations inconsistent with the antitrust laws.
(b) If it is not possible to attain the objectives in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) immediately and simultaneously for any specific waiver determination, the Secretary or designee will seek to reconcile these objectives in light of the overall purposes of the DOE patent waiver policy, as set forth in section 152 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2182, section 9 of the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5908, Public Law 99-661, 42 U.S.C. 7261a, and, where not inconsistent therewith, the Presidential Memorandum to the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies on Government Patent Policy issued February 18, 1983 and Executive Order No. 12591 issued April 10, 1987.
(c) The policy set forth in this section is applicable to all types of contracts as defined in § 784.2 of this part.
§ 784.4
Advance waiver.
This section covers inventions that may be conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under a particular contract. In determining whether an advance waiver will best serve the interests of the United States and the general public, the Secretary or designee (currently the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property) shall, at a minimum, specifically include as considerations the following:
(a) The extent to which the participation of the contractor will expedite the attainment of the purposes of the program;
(b) The extent to which a waiver of all or any part of such rights in any or all fields of technology is needed to secure the participation of the particular contractor;
(c) The extent to which the work to be performed under the contract is useful in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy;
(d) The extent to which the contractor's commercial position may expedite utilization of the research, development, and demonstration results;
(e) The extent to which the Government has contributed to the field of technology to be funded under the contract;
(f) The purpose and nature of the contract, including the intended use of the results developed thereunder;
(g) The extent to which the contractor has made or will make substantial investment of financial resources or technology developed at the contractor's private expense which will directly benefit the work to be performed under the contract;
(h) The extent to which the field of technology to be funded under the contract has been developed at the contractor's private expense;
(i) The extent to which the Government intends to further develop to the point of commercial utilization the results of the contract effort;
(j) The extent to which the contract objectives are concerned with the public health, public safety, or public welfare;
(k) The likely effect of the waiver on competition and market concentration;
(l) In the case of a domestic nonprofit educational institution under an agreement not governed by Chapter 18 of Title 35, United States Code, the extent to which such institution has a technology transfer capability and program approved by the Secretary or designee as being consistent with the applicable policies of this section;
(m) The small business status of the contractor under an agreement not governed by Chapter 18 of Title 35, United States Code, and
(n) Such other considerations, such as benefit to the U.S. economy, that the Secretary or designee may deem appropriate.
§ 784.5
Waiver of identified inventions.
This section covers the relinquishing by the Government to the contractor or inventor of title rights in a particular identified subject invention. In determining whether such a waiver of an identified invention will best serve the interests of the United States and the general public, the Secretary or designee shall, at a minimum, specifically include as considerations the following:
(a) The extent to which such waiver is a reasonable and necessary incentive to call forth private risk capital for the development and commercialization of the invention;
(b) The extent to which the plans, intentions, and ability of the contractor or inventor will obtain expeditious commercialization of such invention;
(c) The extent to which the invention is useful in the production or utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy;
(d) The extent to which the Government has contributed to the field of technology of the invention;
(e) The purpose and nature of the invention, including the anticipated use thereof;
(f) The extent to which the contractor has made or will make substantial investment of financial resources or technology developed at the contractor's private expense which will directly benefit the commercialization of the invention;
(g) The extent to which the field of technology of the invention has been developed at the contractor's expense;
(h) The extent to which the Government intends to further develop the invention to the point of commercial utilization;
(i) The extent to which the invention is concerned with the public health, public safety, or public welfare;
(j) The likely effect of the waiver on competition and market concentration;
(k) In the case of a domestic nonprofit educational institution under an agreement not governed by Chapter 18, Title 35, United States Code, the extent to which such institution has a technology transfer capability and program approved by the Secretary or designee as being consistent with the applicable policies of this section;
(l) The small business status of the contractor, under an agreement not governed by Chapter 18 of Title 35, United States Code; and,
(m) Such other considerations, such as benefit to the U.S. economy that the Secretary or designee may deem appropriate.
§ 784.6
National security considerations for waiver of certain sensitive inventions.
(a) Whenever, in the course of or under any Government contract or subcontract of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program or the nuclear weapons programs or other atomic energy defense activities of the Department of Energy, a contractor makes an invention or discovery to which title vests in the Department of Energy pursuant to statute, the contractor may request waiver of any or all of the Government's property rights. The Secretary
of Energy or designee may decide to waive the Government's rights.
(b) In making a decision under this section, the Secretary or designee shall consider, in addition to the objectives of DOE waiver policy as specified in § 784.3(a)(1) through (4), and the considerations specified in § 784.4 for advance waivers, and § 784.5 for waiver of identified inventions, the following:
(1) Whether national security will be compromised;
(2) Whether sensitive technical information (whether classified or unclassified) under the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program or the nuclear weapons programs or other atomic energy defense activities of the Department of Energy for which dissemination is controlled under Federal statutes and regulations will be released to unauthorized persons;
(3) Whether an organizational conflict of interest contemplated by Federal statutes and regulations will result, and
(4) Whether waiving such rights will adversely affect the operation of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program or the nuclear weapons programs or other atomic energy defense activities of the Department of Energy.
(c) A decision under this § 784.6 shall be made within 150 days after the date on which a complete request for waiver, as described by paragraph (d) of this section, has been submitted to the Patent Counsel by the contractor.
(d) In addition to the requirements for content which apply generally to all waiver requests under paragraph (a) of this section, a requestor must include a full and detailed statement of facts, to the extent known by or available to the requestor, directed to the considerations set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable. To be considered complete, a waiver request must contain sufficient information, in addition to the content requirements under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, to allow the Secretary or designee to make a decision under this section. For advance waiver requests, such information shall include, at a minimum:
(1) An identification of all of the requestor's contractual arrangements involving the Government (including contracts, subcontracts, grants, or other arrangements) in which the technology involved in the contract was developed or used and any other funding of the technology by the Government, whether direct or indirect, involving any other party, of which the requestor is aware;
(2) A description of the requestor's past, current, and future private investment in and development of the technology which is the subject of the contract. This includes expenditures not reimbursed by the Government on research and development which will directly benefit the work to be performed under the instant contract, the amount and percentage of contract costs to be shared by the requestor, the out-of-pocket costs of facilities or equipment to be made available by the requestor for performance of the contract work which are not charged directly or indirectly to the Government under contract, and the contractor's plans and intentions to further develop and commercialize the technology at private expense;
(3) A description of competitive technologies or other factors which would ameliorate any anticompetitive effect of granting the waiver.
(4) Identification of whether the contract pertains to work that is classified, or sensitive, i.e., unclassified but controlled pursuant to section 148 of the Atomic Energy Action of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2168), or subject to export control under Chapter 17 of the Military Critical Technology List (MCTL) contained in Department of Defense Directive 5230.25 including identification of all principal uses of the subject matter of the contract, whether inside or outside the contractor program, and an indication of whether any such uses involve classified or sensitive technologies.
(5) Identification of all DOE and DOD programs and projects in the same general technology as the contract for which the requestor intends to be providing program planning advice or has provided program planning advice within the last three years.
(e) For identified invention requests under this section, such requests shall include at a minimum:
(1) A brief description of the intentions of the requestor (or its present or intended licensee) to commercialize the invention. This description should include:
(i) Estimated expenditures,
(ii) Anticipated steps,
(iii) The associated time periods to bring the invention to commercialization, and
(iv) A statement that requestor (or its present or intended licensee) has the capability to carry out its stated intentions.
(2) A description of any continuing Government funding of the development of the invention (including investigation of materials or processes for use therewith), from whatever Government source, whether direct or indirect, and, to the extent known by the requestor, any anticipated future Government funding to further develop the invention.
(3) A description of competitive technologies or other factors which would ameliorate any anticompetitive effects of granting the waiver.
(4) A statement as to whether or not the requestor would be willing to reimburse the Department of Energy for any and all costs and fees incurred by the Department in the preparation and prosecution of the patent applications covering the invention that is the subject of the waiver request.
(5) Where applicable, a statement of reasons why the request was not timely filed in accordance with the applicable patent rights clause of the contract, or why a request for an extension of time to file the request was not filed in a timely manner.
(6) Identification of whether the invention pertains to work that is classified, or sensitive, i.e., unclassified but controlled pursuant to section 148 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2168), or subject to export control under Chapter 17 of the Military Critical Technology List (MCTL) contained in Department of Defense Directive 5230.25, including identification of all principal uses of the invention inside or outside the contractor program, and an indication of whether any such uses involve classified or sensitive technologies.
(7) Identification of all DOE and DOD programs and projects in the same general technology as the invention for which the requestor intends to be providing program planning advice or has provided program planning advice within the last three years.
(8) A statement of whether a classification review of the invention disclosure, any resulting patent application(s), and/or any reports and other documents disclosing a substantial portion of the invention, has been made, together with any determinations on the existence of classified or sensitive information in either the invention disclosure, the patent application(s), or reports or other documents disclosing a substantial portion of the invention; and
(9) Identification of any and all proposals, work for other activities, or other arrangements submitted by the requestor, DOE, or a third party, of which requestor is aware, which may involve further funding of the work on the invention at either the contractor facility where the invention arose or another facility owned by the Government.
(f) Patent Counsel will notify the requestor promptly if the waiver request is found not to be a complete request and, in that event, will provide the requestor with a reasonable period, not to exceed 60 days, to correct any such incompleteness. If requestor does not respond within the allotted time period, the waiver request will be considered to be withdrawn. If requestor responds within the allotted time period, but the submittal is still deemed incomplete or insufficient, the waiver request may be denied.
(g) As set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, waiver decisions shall be made within 150 days after the date on which a complete request for waiver of such rights, as specified in this section, has been submitted by the requestor to the DOE Patent Counsel. If the original waiver request does not result in a communication from DOE Patent Counsel indicating that the request is incomplete, the 150-day period for decision commences on the date of receipt of the waiver request. If the original
waiver request results in a communication from DOE Patent Counsel indicating that the request is incomplete, the 150-day period for decision commences on the date on which supplementary information is received by Patent Counsel sufficient to make the waiver request complete. For advance waiver requests, if requestor is not notified that the request is incomplete, the 150-day period for decision commences on the date of receipt of the request, or on the date on which negotiation of contract terms is completed, whichever is later.
(h) Failure of DOE to make a patent waiver decision within the prescribed 150-day period shall in no way be construed as a grant of the waiver.
§ 784.7
Class waiver.
This section covers relinquishing of patent title rights by the Government to a class of persons or to a class of inventions. The authorization for class waivers is to be found at 42 U.S.C. 5908(c). Class waivers may be appropriate in situations where all members of a particular class would likely qualify for an advance or identified invention waiver. Normally, class waivers are originated by the Department. However, any person with a direct and substantial interest in a DOE program may request a class waiver by forwarding a written request therefor to the Patent Counsel. While no particular format for requesting a class waiver is prescribed, any request for a class waiver and any resulting determination by the Secretary or designee must address the pertinent objectives and considerations set forth in §§ 784.3(a), 784.4, 784.5, and 784.6.
§ 784.8
Procedures.
(a) All requests for waivers shall be in writing. Each request for a waiver other than a class waiver shall include the information set forth in § 784.9. Such requests may be submitted by existing or prospective contractors in the case of requests for an advance waiver and by contractors, including successor contractors at a facility, or employee-inventors in the case of requests for waiver of identified inventions.
(b) A request for an advance waiver should be submitted to the Contracting Officer (subcontractors may submit through their prime contractors) at any time prior to execution of the contract or subcontract, or within thirty days thereafter, or within such longer period as may be authorized by Patent Counsel for good cause shown in writing. If the purpose, scope, or cost of the contract is substantially altered by modification or extension after the waiver is granted, a new waiver request will be required. When advance waivers are granted, the provisions of the “Patent Rights—Waiver” clause set forth in § 784.12 shall be used in contracts which are the subject of the waivers, unless modified with the approval of the Patent Counsel to conform to the scope of the waiver granted. (See § 784.12.) Advance waivers may be requested for all inventions which may be conceived or first actually reduced to practice under a DOE contract. An advance waiver may also be requested for an identified invention conceived by the contractor before the contract but which may be first actually reduced to practice under the contract. Such waiver request must include a copy of any patent or patent application covering the identified invention, or if no patent application has been filed, a complete description of the invention.
(c) A request for waiver (other than an advance or class waiver) for an identified invention must be submitted to the Patent Counsel at the time the invention is to be reported to DOE or not later than eight months after conception and/or first actual reduction to practice, whichever occurs first in the course of or under the contract, or such longer period as may be authorized by Patent Counsel for good cause shown in writing by the requestor. The time for submitting a waiver request will not normally be extended past the time the invention has been advertised for licensing by DOE. If the Government has already filed a patent application on the invention, the requestor should indicate whether or not it is willing to reimburse the Government for the costs of searching, prosecution, filing and maintenance fees, in the event the waiver is granted.
(d) If the request for waiver contains insufficient information, the Patent
Counsel may seek additional information from the requestor and from other sources. The Patent Counsel will thoroughly analyze the request in view of each of the objectives and considerations and shall also consider the overall rights obtained by the Government in the patent, copyright, and data clauses of the contract. Where it appears that a waiver of a lesser part of the rights of the United States than requested would be more appropriate in view of the policies set forth, the Patent Counsel should attempt to negotiate a compromise acceptable to both the requestor and DOE. If approval of a waiver is recommended, Patent Counsel shall obtain an indication of agreement by the requestor to the proposed waiver scope, terms and conditions.
(e) The Patent Counsel will prepare a Statement of Considerations setting forth the rationale for either approving or denying the waiver request and will forward the Statement to the General Counsel or designee for review thereof. While the Statement need not provide specific findings as to each and every consideration of § 784.4 or § 784.5 of this part, it will cover those that are decisive, and it will explain the basis for the recommended determination. There may be occasions when the application of the various individual considerations of § 784.4 or § 784.5 of this part to a particular case could conflict, and in those instances the conflict will be reconciled giving due regard to the overall policies set forth in 784.3(a) (1) through (4).
(f) The Patent Counsel will also obtain comments from the appropriate DOE program organization to assist the Patent Counsel in the waiver determination. Additionally, if any other Federal Government entity has provided funding or will be providing funding, or if a subject invention has been made in whole or in part by an employee of that entity, Patent Counsel shall obtain permission to waive title to the undivided interest in the invention from the cognizant official of that entity. In situations where time does not permit a delay in contract negotiations for the preparation and mailing of a full written statement, field Patent Counsel may submit a recommendation on the waiver orally to the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, who upon verbal consultation with the appropriate DOE program organization, shall provide a verbal decision to field Patent Counsel. All oral actions shall be promptly confirmed in writing. In approving waiver determinations, the Secretary or designee shall objectively review all requests for waiver in view of the objectives and considerations set forth in §§ 784.3 through 784.6. If the determination and the rationale therefor is not accurately reflected in the Statement of Considerations which has been submitted for approval, a new Statement of Considerations shall be prepared.
(g) In the event that a request for advance waiver is approved after the effective date of the contract, the Patent Counsel shall promptly notify the requestor by letter of the determination and the basis therefor. The letter shall state the scope, terms and conditions of such waiver. If the terms and conditions of an approved advance waiver were not incorporated in the contract when executed, the letter shall inform the requestor that the advance waiver shall be effective as of the effective date of the contract for an advance waiver of inventions identified, i.e., conceived prior to the effective date of the contract, or as of the date the invention is reported with an election by the contractor to retain rights therein, i.e., for an invention conceived or first actually reduced to practice after the effective date of the contract; provided a copy of the letter is signed and returned to the Contracting Officer by the requestor acknowledging the acceptance of the scope, terms and conditions of the advance waiver. After acceptance by the contractor of an advance waiver, the Contracting Officer shall cause a unilateral no-cost modification to be made to the contract incorporating the terms and conditions of the waiver in lieu of previous patent rights provisions.
(h) In the event that a waiver request is denied, the requestor may, within thirty days after notification of the denial, request reconsideration. Such a request shall include any additional
facts and rationale not previously submitted which support the request. Request for reconsideration shall be submitted and processed in accordance with the procedures for submitting waiver requests set forth in this section.
§ 784.9
Content of waiver requests.
(a) Forms (OMB No. 1901-0800) for submitting requests for advance and identified invention waivers, indicating the necessary information, may be obtained from the Contracting Officer or Patent Counsel. All requests for advance and identified invention waivers shall include the following information:
(1) The requestor's identification, business address, and, if represented by Counsel, the Counsel's name and address;
(2) An identification of the pertinent contract or proposed contract and a copy of the contract Statement of Work or a nonproprietary statement which fully describes the proposed work to be performed;
(3) The nature and extent of waiver requested;
(4) A full and detailed statement of facts, to the extent known by or available to the requestor, directed to each of the considerations set forth in §§ 784.4 or 784.5 of this part, as applicable, and a statement applying such facts and considerations to the policies set forth in § 784.3 of this part. It is important that this submission be tailored to the unique aspects of each request for waiver, and be as complete as feasible; and
(5) The signature of the requestor or authorized representative with the following statement: “The facts set forth in this request for waiver are within the knowledge of the requestor and are submitted with the intention that the Secretary or designee rely on them in reaching the waiver determination.”
(b) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, requests for waiver of identified inventions shall include:
(1) The full names of all inventors;
(2) A statement of whether a patent application has been filed on the invention, together with a copy of such application if filed or, if not filed, a complete description of the invention;
(3) If a patent application has not been filed, any information which may indicate a potential statutory bar to the patenting of the invention under 35 U.S.C. 102 or a statement that no such bar is known to exist; and
(4) Where the requestor is the inventor, written authorization from the applicable contractor or subcontractor permitting the inventor to request a waiver.
(c) Subject to statutes, DOE regulations, requirements, and restrictions on the treatment of proprietary and classified information; all material submitted in requests for waiver or in support thereof will be made available to the public after a determination on the waiver request has been made, regardless of whether a waiver is granted. Accordingly, requests for waiver should not normally contain information or data that the requestor is not willing to have made public. If proprietary or classified information is needed to make the waiver determination, such information shall be submitted only at the request of Patent Counsel.
§ 784.10
Record of waiver determinations.
The Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property shall maintain and periodically update a publicly available record of waiver determinations.
§ 784.11
Bases for granting waivers.
(a) The various factual situations which are appropriate for waivers cannot be categorized precisely because the appropriateness of a waiver will depend upon the manner in which the considerations set forth in §§ 784.4 or 784.5, and 784.6 if applicable, of this part relate to the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular contracting situation or the particular invention, in order to best achieve the objectives set forth in § 784.3 of this part. However, some examples where advance waivers might be appropriate are:
(1) Cost-shared contracts;
(2) Situations in which DOE is providing increased funding to a specific ongoing privately-sponsored research,
development, or demonstration project;
(3) Situations such as Work for Others Agreements, User Facility Agreements or CRADAs, involving DOE-approved private use of Government facilities where the waiver requestor is funding a substantial part of the costs; and
(4) Situations in which the equities of the contractor are so substantial in relation to that of the Government that the waiver is necessary to obtain the participation of the contractor.
(b) Waivers may be granted as to all or any part of the rights of the United States to an invention subject to certain rights retained by the United States as set forth in § 784.12 of this part. The scope of the waiver will depend upon the relationship of the contractual situation or identified invention to considerations set forth in §§ 784.4 or 784.5, and 784.6, if applicable, in order to best achieve the objectives set forth in § 784.3. For example, waivers may be restricted to a particular field of use in which the contractor has substantial equities or a commercial position, or restricted to those uses that are not the primary object of the contract effort. Waivers may also be made effective for a specified duration of time, may be limited to particular geographic locations, may require the contractor to license others at reduced royalties in consideration of the Government's contribution to the research, development, or demonstration effort, or may require return of a portion of the royalties or revenue to the Government.
(c) Contractors shall not use their ability to award subcontracts as economic leverage to acquire rights for themselves in the subcontractor inventions, where the subcontractor(s) would prefer to petition for title. A waiver granted to a prime contractor is not normally applicable to inventions of subcontractors. However, in appropriate circumstances, the waiver given to the prime contractor may be made applicable to the waivable inventions of any or all subcontractors, such as where there are pre-existing special research and development arrangements between the prime contractor and subcontractor, or where the prime contractor and subcontractor are partners in a cooperative effort. In addition, in such circumstances, the prime contractor may be permitted to acquire nonexclusive licenses in the subcontractors' inventions when a waiver of the subcontractor inventions is not covered by the prime contractor's waiver.
(d) In advance waivers of identified inventions, the invention will be deemed to be a subject invention and the waiver will be considered as being effective as of the effective date of the contract (see § 784.13(a)). This will be true regardless of whether the identified invention had been first actually reduced to practice prior to the time of contracting or would be reduced to practice under the contract or after expiration of the contract. One purpose of advance waivers of identified inventions is to establish the rights of the parties to such inventions when the facts surrounding the first actual reduction to practice prior to or during the contract are or will be difficult to establish.
§ 784.12
Terms and conditions of waivers.
The terms and conditions for waivers are set forth in the “Patent Rights—Waiver” clause in this section. A waiver of all foreign and domestic patent rights under a contract authorizes the use of this clause with any additions prescribed by the DOE Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR Chapter 9) or the terms of the waiver. This clause shall not be used in contracts with small business firms or nonprofit organizations subject to 35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
If a waiver of different scope is granted, the clause shall be modified to conform to the scope of the waiver granted. Advance waivers for arrangements other than contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements may use other clause provisions approved by the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, except that all waivers for funding agreements shall be subject to the license of clause paragraph (b) and the provisions of clause paragraphs (i) and (j). The terms and conditions of the clause shall also constitute the basis for confirmatory licenses regarding waivers of identified
inventions. For inventions under advance waivers, a duly executed and approved instrument fully confirmatory of all rights to which the Government is entitled is required to be submitted promptly after filing a patent application thereon. If, however, a waiver request is pending, delivery of the confirmatory instrument may be delayed until a determination on the waiver request is made. In the case of a waiver of an identified invention pursuant to a request for greater rights, the confirmatory instrument shall be agreed to or submitted to Patent Counsel before or at the time the waiver is granted.

# Patent Rights—Waiver
Use the clause at 48 CFR 52.227-12 with the following changes:
(1) In paragraph (a) “Definitions” add the following definitions:
Background patent
means a domestic patent covering an invention or discovery which is not a Subject Invention and which is owned or controlled by the Contractor at any time through the completion of this contract:
(i) Which the Contractor, but not the Government, has the right to license to others without obligation to pay royalties thereon, and
(ii) Infringement of which cannot reasonably be avoided upon the practice of any specific process, method, machine, manufacture or composition of matter (including relatively minor modifications thereof) which is a subject of the research, development, or demonstration work performed under this contract.
Contract
means any contract, grant, agreement, understanding, or other arrangement, which includes research, development, or demonstration work, and includes any assignment or substitution of parties.
DOE patent waiver regulations
means the Department of Energy patent waiver regulations at 10 CFR part 784.
Patent Counsel
means the Department of Energy Patent Counsel assisting the procuring activity.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
(2) In paragraph (a) in the definition of “Subject invention” substitute: “course of or” for: “performance of work”.
(3) In paragraph (b) “Allocation of principal rights,” add at the beginning of first sentence:
“Whereas DOE has granted a waiver of rights to subject inventions to the Contractor,”.
(4) In paragraph (c)(1), substitute:
“Patent Counsel within six months after conception or first actual reduction to practice, whichever occurs first in the course of or under this contract, but in any event, prior to any sale, public use, or public disclosure of such invention known to the Contractor.” for.
“Contractor officer within 2 months after the inventor discloses it in writing to Contractor Personnel responsible for Patent matters * * * earlier.”
(5) In paragraph (c)(2) add at the end: “The Contractor shall notify the Patent Counsel as to those countries (including the United States) in which the Contractor will retain title not later than 60 days prior to the end of the statutory period.”
(6) In paragraph (c)(3) substitute: “but not later than at least 60 days” for “or, if earlier,”
(7) In paragraph (d) add (d)(5):
“(5) If the waiver authorizing the use of this clause is terminated as provided in paragraph (p) of this clause.”
(8) In paragraph (e)(1) add: “under paragraph (d) of this clause” after “Government obtains title.”
(9) In paragraph (e)(2) substitute “37 CFR part 404 and DOE licensing regulations.” for “the Federal Property Management regulations and agency licensing regulations (if any)”
(10) In paragraph (f)(5) substitute “the course of or” for “performance of work”.
(11) In paragraph (g) substitute paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) as follows:
(1) Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall include the clause at 48 CFR 952.227-11, suitably modified to identify the parties, in all subcontracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, or research work to be performed by a small business firm or nonprofit organization, except where the work of the subcontract is subject to an Exceptional Circumstances Determination by DOE. In all other subcontracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, demonstration, or research work, the Contractor shall include the patent rights clause at 48 CFR 952.227-13 (suitably modified to identify the parties).
(2) The Contractor shall not, as part of the consideration for awarding the subcontract, obtain rights in the subcontractor's subject inventions.
(3) In the case of subcontractors at any tier, Department, the subcontractor, and Contractor agree that the mutual obligations of the parties created by this clause constitute a contract between the subcontractor and the Department with respect to those matters covered by this clause.
(12) Substitute the following for paragraph (k):
(k) Background Patents
(1) The Contractor agrees:
(i) to grant to the Government a royalty-free, nonexclusive license under any Background Patent for purposes of practicing a
subject of this contract by or for the Government in research, development, and demonstration work only.
(ii) that, upon written application by DOE, it will grant to responsible parties for purposes of practicing a subject of this contract, nonexclusive licenses under any Background Patent on terms that are reasonable under the circumstances. If, however, the Contractor believes that exclusive or partially exclusive rights are necessary to achieve expeditious commercial development or utilization, then a request may be made to DOE for DOE approval of such licensing by the Contractor.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1)(ii), the Contractor shall not be obligated to license any Background Patent if the Contractor demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary or his designee that:
(i) a competitive alternative to the subject matter covered by said Background Patent is commercially available from one or more other sources; or
(ii) the Contractor or its licensees are supplying the subject matter covered by said Background Patent in sufficient quantity and at reasonable prices to satisfy market needs, or have taken effective steps or within a reasonable time are expected to take effective steps to so supply the subject matter.
(13) Add new paragraph (l) Communications as follows:
All reports and notifications required by this clause shall be submitted to the Patent Counsel unless otherwise instructed.
(14) In paragraph (m) add to end of sentence: “, except with respect to Background Patents, above.”
(15) In paragraph (n)(4) substitute “conducted in such a manner as” for “subject to appropriate conditions.”
(16) In paragraph (o) add at the end of the parenthetical phrase in the heading to the paragraph: “or grants”.
(17) In paragraph (o) add paragraph (o)(1)(v) as follows:
(v) Convey to the Government, using a DOE-approved form, the title and/or rights of the Government in each subject invention as required by this clause.
(18) In paragraph (o), substitute the following for (o)(3):
(3) Final payment under this contract shall not be made before the Contractor delivers to the Patent Counsel all disclosures of subject inventions required by paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, an acceptable final report pursuant to paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this clause, and all past due confirmatory instruments, and the Patent Counsel has issued a patent clearance certification to the Contracting Officer.
(19) Add paragraphs (p), (q), (r), and (s) as follows:
(p) Waiver Terminations.
Any waiver granted to the Contractor authorizing the use of this clause (including any retention of rights pursuant thereto by the Contractor under paragraph (b) of this clause) may be terminated at the discretion of the Secretary or his designee in whole or in part, if the request for waiver by the Contractor is found to contain false material statements or nondisclosure of material facts, and such were specifically relied upon by DOE in reaching the waiver determination. Prior to any such termination, the Contractor will be given written notice stating the extent of such proposed termination and the reasons therefor, and a period of 30 days, or such longer period as the Secretary or his designee shall determine for good cause shown in writing, to show cause why the waiver of rights should not be so terminated. Any waiver termination shall be subject to the Contractor's minimum license as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause.
(q) Atomic Energy.
No claim for pecuniary award or compensation under the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, shall be asserted by the Contractor or its employees with respect to any invention or discovery made or conceived in the course of or under this contract.
(r) Publication.
It is recognized that during the course of work under this contract, the Contractor or its employees may from time to time desire to release or publish information regarding scientific or technical developments conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under this contract. In order that public disclosure of such information will not adversely affect the patent interests of DOE or the Contractor, approval for release of publication shall be secured from Patent Counsel prior to any such release or publication. In appropriate circumstances, and after consultation with the Contractor, Patent Counsel may waive the right of prepublication review.
(s) Forfeiture of rights in unreported subject inventions.
(1) The Contractor shall forfeit and assign to the Government, at the request of the Secretary of Energy or designee, all rights in any subject invention which the Contractor fails to report to Patent Counsel within six months after the time the Contractor:
(i) Files or causes to be filed a United States or foreign patent application thereon; or
(ii) Submits the final report required by paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this clause, whichever is later.
(2) However, the Contractor shall not forfeit rights in a subject invention if, within the time specified in paragraph (m)(1) of this clause, the Contractor:
(i) Prepares a written decision based upon a review of the record that the invention was
neither conceived nor first actually reduced to practice in the course of or under the contract and delivers the decision to Patent Counsel, with a copy to the Contracting Officer; or
(ii) Contending that the subject invention is not a subject invention, the Contractor nevertheless discloses the subject invention and all facts pertinent to this contention to the Patent Counsel, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, or
(iii) Establishes that the failure to disclose did not result from the Contractor's fault or negligence.
(3) Pending written assignment of the patent application and patents on a subject invention determined by the Contracting Officer to be forfeited (such determination to be a Final Decision under the Disputes clause of this contract), the Contractor shall be deemed to hold the invention and the patent applications and patents pertaining thereto in trust for the Government. The forfeiture provision of this paragraph shall be in addition to and shall not supersede any other rights and remedies which the Government may have with respect to subject inventions.
§ 784.13
Effective dates.
Waivers shall be effective on the following dates:
(a) For advance waivers of identified inventions, i.e., inventions conceived prior to the effective date of the contract, on the effective date of the contract, even though the advance waiver may have been requested after that date;
(b) For identified inventions under advance waivers, i.e., inventions conceived or first actually reduced to practice after the effective date of the contract, on the date the invention is reported with the election to retain rights as to that invention; and
(c) For waivers of identified inventions (other than under an advance waiver), on the date of the letter from Patent Counsel notifying the requestor that the waiver has been granted.
Pt. 800

# PART 800—LOANS FOR BID OR PROPOSAL PREPARATION BY MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES SEEKING DOE CONTRACTS AND ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
800.001
Purpose.
800.002
Program management.
800.003
Definitions.
800.004
Eligibility.

# Subpart B—Loan Solicitation, Application and Review
800.100
Solicitation of applications.
800.101
Application requirements.
800.102
Review by Application Evaluation Panel.
800.103
Review by Application Approving Official.

# Subpart C—Loans
800.200
Maximum loan; allowable costs.
800.201
Findings.
800.202
Loan terms and conditions.
800.203
Loan limits.
800.204
Deviations.

# Subpart D—Loan Administration
800.300
Loan servicing.
800.301
Monitoring.
800.302
Loan limitation.
800.303
Assignment or transfer of loan.
800.304
Default.
800.305
Disclosure.
800.306
Noninterference with other laws.
800.307
Appeals.

# Authority:
Sec. 211(e) of the Department of Energy (DOE) Organization Act, Pub. L. 95-91, Title II, as amended by Pub. L. 95-619, Title VI, sec. 641, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3284 (42 U.S.C. 7141).

# Source:
46 FR 44689, Sept. 4, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 800.001
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to set forth policies and procedures for the award and administration of loans to minority business enterprises. The loans are to assist such enterprises in participating fully in research, development, demonstration and contract activities of the Department of Energy. The loans are to defray a percentage of the cost of obtaining DOE contracts and other agreements, including procurements, cooperative agreements, grants, loans and loan guarantees; of obtaining subcontracts with DOE operating contractors; and of obtaining contracts with first-tier subcontractors of DOE operating contractors in furtherance of the research, development, demonstration or other contract activities of DOE. Issuance of loans under this regulation is limited to the extent
funds are provided in advance in appropriation acts. This regulation implements the authority for such loans in section 211(e) of the Department of Energy (DOE) Organization Act, Public Law 95-619, title VI, section 641, November 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3284 (42 U.S.C.A. 7141).
[48 FR 17574, Apr. 25, 1983]
§ 800.002
Program management.
Program management responsibility for financial assistance awarded under this regulation has been assigned to the Office of Minority Economic Impact.
§ 800.003
Definitions.
For the purpose of this regulation:
Act
means the DOE Organization Act, Public Law 95-91, title II, as amended by the National Energy Conservation Policy Act, Public Law 95-619, title VI, section 641.
Applicant
means a minority business enterprise which is seeking a loan under this regulation.
Application Approving Official
means the Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact.
Application Evaluation Panel
(also referred to as the
Panel
) means a team of Federal employees appointed by the Application Approving Official to evaluate loan applications and make approval or disapproval recommendations regarding such applications.
Borrower
means an applicant who enters into a loan agreement with DOE.
Contracting Officer
means the DOE official warranted and authorized to contractually bind the Department of Energy and execute written agreements that are binding on the Department.
Costs
of a bid or proposal means the cost of preparing, submitting and supporting a bid or proposal, whether solicited or not, for a DOE contract or other agreement such as a procurement contract, grant, cooperative agreement, loan or loan guarantee; or a subcontract with a DOE operating contractor; or a contract with a first-tier subcontractor of a DOE operating contractor in furtherance of the research, development, demonstration or other contract activities of DOE.
Default
means the actual failure by the borrower to make payment of principal or interest in accordance with the terms and conditions of a loan issued under this regulation, or the failure of the borrower to meet any other requirement specified as a default condition in the loan agreement.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Minority Economic Impact (OMEI).
Loan,
in reference to a loan made pursuant to the regulation, means a transaction in which a contractual instrument (“loan agreement”) is executed between the United States, as lender, acting through the Secretary of Energy, and a borrower. The instrument must obligate the United States to provide the borrower with a specified amount(s) of United States funds for a specified period of time and must obligate the borrower to use the moneys to bid for and attempt to obtain contracts and other agreements relating to DOE research, development, demonstration and contract activities, and to repay the moneys at a specified time at an agreed rate of interest. The words ‘loan’, ‘loan agreement’ and ‘transaction’ include (where the context does not require otherwise) the terms and conditions of related documents, such as the borrower's note or bond or other evidence of, or security for, the borrower's indebtedness.
Minority Business Enterprise
means a firm including a sole proprietorship, corporation, association, or partnership which is at least 50 percent owned or controlled by a member of a minority or group of members of a minority. For the purpose of this definition, ‘control’ means direct or indirect possession of the power to direct, or cause the direction of, management and policies, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. An individual who is a citizen of the United States and who is a Negro, Puerto Rican, American Indian, Eskimo, Oriental, or Aleut, or is a Spanish speaking individual of Spanish descent, is a member of a “minority” as used in this regulation.
Operating Contractors
means contractors under contracts having one of the following purposes, in accordance with the provisions of § 9.50.001(a)(1) of the DOE procurement regulations (title 41 CFR part 9-50):
(a) DOE prime contracts for the management of Federal Government-owned laboratories, production plants, and research facilities located on Federal Government-owned or Federal Government-leased sites, where the programs being conducted are considered of a long-term, continuing nature; or
(b) DOE prime contracts for the operation of Federal Government-owned facilities located on contractor-owned or leased sites where the programs being conducted are of a long-term, continuing nature. An example of this category would be those contracts with universities for the operation of Federal Government-owned facilities, for the purpose of conducting long-term basic research programs.
(c) Other contracts performed on sites owned by the Federal Government when so designated by the appropriate procurement official.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of Energy or his delegate.
[46 FR 44689, Sept. 4, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 17574, Apr. 25, 1983]
§ 800.004
Eligibility.
In order to be eligible for a loan, an applicant must be a minority business enterprise as defined in § 800.003.

# Subpart B—Loan Solicitation, Application and Review
§ 800.100
Solicitation of applications.
The Secretary will periodically issue an announcement soliciting applications under this regulation. The announcement will be published in the
Federal Register,
synopsized in the
Commerce Business Daily,
and circulated to minority trade associations and organizations and to the Minority Business Development Agency and Small Business Administration. The announcement will indicate funds availability, eligibility requirements, application instructions, interest rates, maturities and other key loan terms and any applicable restrictions. In such solicitations, DOE shall further indicate that, in the case of applications for loans relating to bids or proposals for contracts with first-tier subcontractors of DOE operating contractors, information necessary to substantiate such applications may be unavailable to DOE from such subcontractors. If the substantiating information is not made available to DOE in a timely manner, the application may be rejected.
[46 FR 44689, Sept. 4, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 17574, Apr. 25, 1983]
§ 800.101
Application requirements.
(a) Applications for loans shall be filed, one original and three copies with: Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585, Attention: Announcement No. DE-PS60-MI.
(b) An application for a loan under this regulation must include the following information. Items described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section may be submitted for preliminary review in advance of a specific loan request but must be updated at time of loan request to reflect substantial changes.
(1) Applicant's name and address, with a description of the kind and size of its business, its business experience and its history as a minority business enterprise.
(2) Financial statements of applicant and its principals, including source of revenue and balance sheets for the current year and, as to applicant, for the two preceding years of applicant's existence as a business entity. The Secretary may require applicant to provide certification by a public accountant, or other certification acceptable to the Secretary.
(3) A description of any other Federal financial backing (direct loans, guaranteed loans, grants, etc.) applied for or obtained by the applicant within the previous five years, or expected to be applied for.
(4) A description of applicant's management structure, with list of applicant's key persons with their responsibilities and qualifications.
(i) In the case of a specific loan request this list should include any contractor or consultant whose services are proposed in connection with the bid or proposal for which the loan is sought.
(5) Affidavit(s) of eligibility (see § 800.004).
(6) Documentation as to applicant's authority to undertake the activities contemplated by the application. Such
documentation shall take substantially the following form:
(i) If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the charter or certificate and articles of incorporation, with any amendments, duly certified by the Secretary of State of the State where organized, and a copy of the by-laws. There shall also be included a copy of all minutes, resolutions of stockholders or directors or other representatives of the applicant, properly attested, authorizing the filing of the application.
(ii) If the applicant is an association, a verified copy of its articles of association, if any, with an attested copy of the resolution of its governing board, if any, authorizing the filing of the application.
(iii) If the applicant is a business trust, a verified copy of the trust instrument and an attested copy of the resolution or other authority under which the application is made.
(iv) If the applicant is a joint stock company, a verified copy of the articles of association and of the authorizing resolution.
(v) If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; if on behalf of a limited partnership, a duly certified copy, also, of the certificate of limited partnership, if such certificate is required to be obtained under state law governing such limited partnership.
(7) Credit references.
(8) Information on the award to be sought through the bid or proposal, as follows:
(i) Title, and whether in response to a solicitation or unsolicited.
(ii) Brief description of work to be performed.
(iii) Sponsoring DOE office, including solicitation number, if any.
(iv) If an unsolicited proposal is planned, the loan application shall indicate the appropriate DOE program personnel to be consulted as to whether there is potential for the proposal to be supported.
(v) Schedule for preparation and submission of the bid or proposal.
(9) Itemized cost estimates (and whether yet incurred).
(10) The required loan amount, not to exceed 75 percent of total bid or proposal costs, in accordance with § 800.200 on allowable costs.
(11) Requested loan maturity, in accordance with § 800.202(a)(3).
(12) How applicant will finance performance of work under a successful bid or proposal.
(13) Such other information as the Application Approving Official may deem necessary for evaluation in accordance with § 800.103 and for compliance with the provisions of this regulation.
(14) The application shall be signed by the applicant or on behalf of the applicant by an authorized representative. Verification may be by affidavit of an authorized representative of an applicant; attestation shall be by the authorized officer of an applicant.

# Note:
Title 18 United States Code, section 1001 provides criminal penalties for fraud and intentional false statements in information submitted in such an application.
§ 800.102
Review by Application Evaluation Panel.
(a) Applications for loans under this regulation shall be reviewed by an Application Evaluation Panel, which shall be appointed by the Application Approving Official. The Panel shall include, at a minimum, a representative of the Office of Minority Economic Impact, the contracting officer and a representative of the Office of the Controller.
(b) Panel review shall be conducted pursuant to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, as applicable, to evaluate, to clarify and to develop information contained in the application and such other information as the Application Approving Official or the Panel may request.
(1) The Panel shall give priority to applications relating to a competitive solicitation, because of time limits on such solicitations. The Panel may defer action a maximum of five days after a solicitation has been announced in the
Commerce Business Daily
to provide all interested applicants an opportunity to apply.
(2) Initial screening will be in the order applications are received, but
time required to process an application may vary from case to case.
(c)
Panel review of specific loan requests.
(1) If an application contains a specific loan request, and complies with § 800.101, the Panel shall arrange for risk analysis, independent of any such analysis submitted by or on behalf of the applicant. Risk analysis shall be directed both to the loan request and to applicant's prospective performance of work pursuant to the bid or proposal.
(2) The Panel shall evaluate the loan request in light of the risk analysis, and shall give its conclusions in writing to the Application Approving Official, with respect to the following and to such other considerations as that official may direct:
(i) Applicant's eligibility as a minority business enterprise.
(ii) Compliance with the application requirements of § 800.101.
(iii) Compliance with § 800.200 on allowable costs.
(iv) Applicant's financial ability to make the bid or proposal without the loan.
(v) Applicant's contribution of, or ability to contribute, the 25% minimum share of allowable costs, or more.
(vi) Applicant's ability to prepare an adequate bid or proposal, if the loan is made.
(vii) Possibility of award to applicant pursuant to its bid or proposal.

# Note:
Normally, not more than three loans will be approved for the same competitive award.
(viii) Applicant's ability to perform pursuant to the bid or proposal.
(ix) Likelihood that applicant will repay the requested loan, regardless of success of applicant's bid or proposal.
(x) Optimal use of available program funds.
(xi) The Panel's recommendation.
(d)
Panel review of other applications.
If the application was submitted without a specific loan request, the Panel shall review the application in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section with the limited purpose of determining whether the applicant has complied with § 800.101, except as to matters determinable only with respect to a future specific loan request, and shall inform the Application Approving Official in writing as to its determinations.
§ 800.103
Review by Application Approving Official.
(a) The Application Approving Official shall consider the results of the Panel's review under section 102 (c) or (d), and such other information as the Application Approving Official determines to be relevant pursuant to the provisions of this regulation, and shall either approve or disapprove the application, giving it priority in accordance with the provisions of § 800.102(b).
(b) The Application Approving Official shall authorize a contracting officer to notify the applicant of approval or disapproval.
(c) An applicant whose application has been rejected will be informed, on request, of the reason for rejection. Rejection is not a bar to submission of an appropriately revised application.

# Subpart C—Loans
§ 800.200
Maximum loan; allowable costs.
(a) A loan under this regulation shall not exceed 75 percent of allowable costs of a bid or proposal to obtain a DOE contract or other agreement (such as a procurement contract, cooperative agreement, grant, loan or loan guarantee), or a subcontract with a DOE operating contractor, or a contract with a first-tier subcontractor of a DOE operating contractor in furtherance of the research, development, demonstration or other contract activities of DOE.
(b) To be allowable, costs must, in DOE's judgment:
(1) Be consistent with the bidding cost principles of the Federal Procurement Regulation (41 CFR Ch. 1, 1-15.205-3) and DOE Procurement Regulation (41 CFR Ch. 9, 9-15.205-3); and;
(2) Be necessary, reasonable and customary for the bid or proposal contemplated by the application; and
(3) Be incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the applicant.
(c) Costs which are, in general, allowable, if consistent with paragraph (b) of this section include, but are not limited to:
(1) Bid bond premiums.
(2) Financial, accounting, legal, engineering and other professional, consulting or similar fees and service charges.
(3) Printing and reproduction costs.
(4) Travel and transportation costs.
(5) Costs of the loan application under this rule.
(d) Costs that are not considered as allowable costs include the following:
(1) Fees and commissions charged to the applicant, including finder's fees, for obtaining Federal funds.
(2) Expenses, which, in DOE's judgment, have primarily an application broader than the specific loan request.
(3) Costs which, in DOE's judgment, fail to conform to paragraph (b) of this section.
[46 FR 44689, Sept. 4, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 17574, Apr. 25, 1983]
§ 800.201
Findings.
A loan shall issue under this regulation only if the Secretary, having reviewed the action of the Application Approving Official, and having considered such other information as the Secretary may deem pertinent, has made all the findings that follow:
(a) That the applicant is a minority business enterprise.
(b) That the loan will assist the enterprise to participate in the research, development, demonstration or contract activities of the Department of Energy by providing funds needed by applicant for bid or proposal purposes.
(c) That, by terms of the loan, applicant's use of the funds will be limited to bidding for and obtaining a contract or other agreement with the Department of Energy, a subcontract with a DOE operating contractor, or a contract with a first-tier subcontractor of a DOE operating contractor in furtherance of the research, development, demonstration or other contract activities of DOE.
(d) That the funds to be loaned will not exceed 75% of applicant's costs in bidding for and obtaining the contract or agreement.
(e) That the rate of interest on the loan has been determined in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury.
(f) That there is a reasonable prospect that the applicant will make the bid or proposal which is the purpose of the loan, will perform according to its bid or proposal, and will repay the loan according to the terms thereof, regardless of the success of its bid or proposal.
(g) That the terms and conditions of the loan are acceptable to the Secretary and comply with this regulation and with section 211(e) of the Department of Energy Organization Act.
[46 FR 44689, Sept. 4, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 17574, Apr. 25, 1983]
§ 800.202
Loan terms and conditions.
(a) The loan shall be based upon a loan agreement and the borrower's separate promissory note for the proceeds of the loan, including interest. The agreement and note shall be executed in writing between the borrower and the Secretary. The contracting officer shall execute the loan agreement on behalf of the Secretary. The loan agreement and the promissory note shall provide as follows, either at full length or by incorporation by reference to terms of the other of the two documents.
(1) The borrower agrees to repay the loan of funds provided by the Secretary.
(2) The interest rate on the loan is as established in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yields of outstanding marketable obligations of the United States having maturities comparable to the loan.
(3) The loan shall be repaid over a maximum period as follows, in equal monthly installments of principal and interest, unless a different frequency of installments is specified by the Secretary:
Loan value
Maximum repayment
1
$0—$5,000
3 years 3 months.
$5,000—$25,000
5 years 3 months.
Excess of $25,000
8 years 3 months.
1
Maximum repayment period from date of initial disbursement.
Repayment of principal and interest shall begin within 90 days following the initial loan disbursement or such longer period as may be acceptable to the Secretary. Installments shall be applied to accrued interest first and then to repayment of principal. Past
due installments shall accrue interest at the quarterly current-value-of-funds-rate specified by the Treasury for overdue accounts. Prepayments may be made at any time without penalty.
(4) The borrower shall have appropriate opportunities, as specified in the loan agreement, to cure any default, failure, or breach of any of the covenants, conditions and obligations undertaken by the borrower pursuant to the provisions of the loan agreement.
(5) Loans of $10,000 or less will be disbursed in a single disbursement. Disbursement of loans larger than $10,000 shall be per schedule and documentation specified by the Secretary.
(6) The loan may be used by the borrower to defray as much as, but no more than, 75 percent of the cost of the bid or proposal within the limitations specified in § 800.200, on allowable costs. Costs incurred by the borrower prior to the effective date of the loan agreement, and allowable under § 800.200, may be credited toward the borrower's share of costs if, in DOE's judgment, they were primarily related to the bid or proposal, but shall not be reimbursed from the loan.
(7) The borrower shall make periodic reports regarding the bid or proposal.
(8) The borrower shall maintain good standing under Federal, State and local laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of its business, including current payment of all taxes, fees and other charges and all requisite licenses and other governmental authorization necessary for the continued operation of the business throughout the term of the loan.
(9) The borrower shall remain a minority business enterprise throughout the term of the loan.
(10) The borrower shall return funds disbursed, but not required together with accrued interest thereon, to DOE, or to the servicing agent, if applicable, when its bid or proposal is ready for submission. The return of unrequired funds shall be by check separate from any payment of interest or principal, shall be identified by the borrower as a return of unrequired funds, and shall be accompanied by the borrower's certification that so much of the loan as has been disbursed to the borrower and not returned has been, or will be, expended by the borrower for costs allowable under § 800.200.
(11) Such other provisions as the Secretary deems appropriate.
(b) The loan agreement shall also provide for loan servicing and monitoring in accordance with § 800.300 and § 800.301, loan limitation in accordance with § 800.302, assignment and transfer in accordance with § 800.303, default in accordance with § 800.304 and appeals in accordance with § 800.307.
(c) The Secretary may require, as preconditions to disbursement, that the borrower have specified amounts of working capital (including amounts derived from Federal financial assistance) and maintain specified financial ratios, where in the Secretary's judgment satisfaction of such preconditions is necessary to assure the borrower's ability to make and perform the contract, agreement or subcontract according to the bid or proposal, or is otherwise necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
(d) The Secretary may require pledges, personal guarantees and other collateral security, and the maintenance of insurance on the borrower's assets and principals, in amounts and on terms appropriate in the Secretary's judgment, to protect the interests of the United States.
§ 800.203
Loan limits.
The Secretary shall not make a loan in excess of $50,000, or make aggregate loans to the same minority business enterprise, including its affiliates, in any Federal fiscal year in excess of $100,000. In addition, the Secretary shall not increase a loan to an amount which would cause the limits set forth in the previous sentence to be exceeded. Nothing in this regulation shall be interpreted to restrict the Secretary, in making the various determinations provided for in this regulation, from taking into account considerations relating to the Office of Minority Economic Impact loan program as a whole.
§ 800.204
Deviations.
(a) To the extent consistent with the Act, relevant appropriations acts, and other applicable statutes, DOE may deviate on an individual application basis
from the requirements of this regulation upon a finding by the Secretary that such deviation is necessary or appropriate in the individual case for the accomplishment of program objectives.
(b) The contracting officer may, subject to written agreement by other necessary parties, modify or amend the terms and conditions of a loan provided that such modification or amendment shall be consistent with this regulation.

# Subpart D—Loan Administration
§ 800.300
Loan servicing.
(a) Servicing of a loan under this regulation may be performed by DOE, by another Federal agency, or by a servicing agent (commercial bank, broker, or other financial institution or entity) having the capability, and legally qualified, to service the loan consistently with the requirements of this regulation, which contracts with DOE to act as servicing agent. In determining the capability of a prospective servicing agent, DOE shall give due consideration to the experience of the agent in providing financial services to minority business enterprises.
(b) If the servicing of the loan is by contract or other agreement, such contract or other agreement shall provide that the loan shall be serviced in accordance with this regulation and with the terms and conditions of the loan, under a standard of performance that a reasonable and prudent lender would require as to its own similar loan. Servicing responsibilities shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
(1) Loan disbursements as set forth in the loan agreement.
(2) Collection of principal and interest payments on a monthly basis.
(3) Maintenance of records on loan accounts.
(4) Notification of the Secretary, without delay, as to the following:
(i) That the initial disbursement or loan drawdown is ready to be made, together with evidence from the borrower that the bid or proposal preparation has begun or is about to begin.
(ii) The date and amount of each subsequent disbursement under the loan.
(iii) Any nonreceipt of payment within 10 days after the date specified for payment, together with evidence of appropriate notification to the borrower.
(iv) Any known failure by the borrower to comply with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
(v) Evidence, if any, that the borrower is likely to default on any condition set forth in the loan agreement or may be unable to make the next scheduled payment of principal or interest.
(5) Submittal to DOE of periodic (semi-annual or annual) reports on the status and conditions of the loan and of the borrower.
§ 800.301
Monitoring.
The Secretary shall have the right to audit any and all costs of the bid or proposal for which the loan is sought or made and to exclude or reduce the includible amount of any cost in accordance with § 800.200. Auditors who are employees of the United States Government, who are designated by the Secretary of Energy or by the Comptroller General of the United States, shall have access to, and the right to examine, any directly pertinent documents and records of an applicant or borrower at reasonable times under reasonable circumstances. The servicing agent, if any, shall make information regarding the loan available to the Secretary of Energy and Comptroller General to the extent lawful and within its ability. The Secretary may direct the applicant or borrower to submit to an audit by public accountant or equivalent acceptable to the Secretary.
§ 800.302
Loan limitation.
The Secretary may limit the loan by written notice to the borrower to those amounts, if any, already disbursed under the loan, if the Secretary has determined that the borower has failed to comply with a material term or condition set forth in the loan agreement.
§ 800.303
Assignment or transfer of loan.
Assignment or transfer of the loan and obligations thereunder may be made only with the prior written consent of the Secretary.
§ 800.304
Default.
(a) In the event that the borrower fails to perform the terms and conditions of the loan, the borrower shall be in default and the Secretary shall have the right, at the Secretary's option, to accelerate the indebtedness and demand full payment of all principal and interest amounts outstanding under the loan.
(b) No failure on the part of the Secretary to make demand at any time shall constitute a waiver of the rights held by the Secretary.
(c) Upon demand by the Secretary, the borrower shall have a period of not more than 30 days from the date of receipt of the Secretary's demand to make payment in full.
(d) In the event that the failure on the part of the borrower to perform the terms and conditions of the loan does not constitute an intentional act, but is brought about as a result of circumstances largely beyond the control of the borrower, or is deemed by, the Secretary to be insubstantial, the Secretary may elect, at the Secretary's option, to defer such performance and/or restructure the repayment required by the loan agreement in any mutually acceptable manner.
(e) Should the borrower fail to pay after demand as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, and no deferral or restructuring is agreed to by the Secretary as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Secretary shall undertake collection in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement and the applicable law.
§ 800.305
Disclosure.
Information received from an applicant by DOE may be available to the public subject to the provision of 5 U.S.C. 552, 18 U.S.C. 1905 and 10 CFR part 1004; provided that:
(a) Subject to the requirements of law, information such as trade secrets, commercial and financial information, and other information concerning the minority business enterprise that the enterprise submits to DOE in writing, in an application, or at other times throughout the duration of the loan on a privileged or confidential basis, will not be disclosed without prior notice to submitter in accordance with DOE regulations concerning public disclosure of information. Any submitter asserting that the information is privileged or confidential should appropriately identify and mark such information.
(b) Upon a showing satisfactory to the Secretary that any information or portion thereof obtained under this regulation would, if made public, divulge trade secrets or other proprietary information of the minority business enterprise, the Secretary may not disclose such information.
(c) This section shall not be construed as authority to withhold information from Congress or from any committee of Congress upon request of the Chairman.
§ 800.306
Noninterference with other laws.
Nothing in this regulation shall be construed to modify requirements imposed on the borrower by Federal, State and local government agencies in connection with permits, licenses, or other authorizations to conduct or finance its business.
§ 800.307
Appeals.
Any dispute concerning questions of fact arising under the loan agreement shall be decided in writing by the contracting officer. The borrower may request the contracting officer to reconsider any such decision, which reconsideration shall be promptly undertaken. If not satisfied with the contracting officer's final decision, the borrower, upon receipt of such written decision, may appeal the decision within 60 days in writing to the Chairman, Financial Assistance Appeals Board (FAAB), Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585. The Board shall proceed in accordance with the Department of Energy's rules and regulations for such purpose. The decision of the Board with respect to such appeals shall be the final decision of the Secretary.
Pt. 810

# PART 810—ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN ATOMIC ENERGY ACTIVITIES
Sec.
810.1
Purpose.
810.2
Scope.
810.3
Definitions.
810.4
Communications.
810.5
Interpretations.
810.6
Generally authorized activities.
810.7
Activities requiring specific authorization.
810.8
Restrictions on general and specific authorization.
810.9
Grant of specific authorization.
810.10
Revocation, suspension, or modification of authorization.
810.11
Information required in an application for specific authorization.
810.12
Reports.
810.13
Additional information.
810.14
Special provision regarding Ukraine.
810.15
Violations.
810.16
Effective date and savings clause.
Appendix A to Part 810—Generally Authorized Destinations

# Authority:
Secs. 57, 127, 128, 129, 161, 222, 232, and 234 AEA, as amended by the
Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978,
Pub. L. 95-242, 68 Stat. 932, 948, 950, 958, 92 Stat. 126, 136, 137, 138 (42 U.S.C. 2077, 2156, 2157, 2158, 2201, 2272, 2280, 2282), the
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004,
Pub. L. 108-458, 118 Stat. 3768, and sec. 3116 of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019,
Pub. L. 115-232; Sec. 104 of the
Energy Reorganization Act of 1974,
Pub. L. 93-438; Sec. 301,
Department of Energy Organization Act,
Pub. L. 95-91;
National Nuclear Security Administration Act,
Pub. L. 106-65, 50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.,
as amended.

# Source:
80 FR 9375, Feb. 23, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 810.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part implement section 57 b.(2) of the Atomic Energy Act, which empowers the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Department of State, and after consultation with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Defense, to authorize persons to directly or indirectly engage or participate in the development or production of special nuclear material outside the United States. The purpose of the regulations in this part is to:
(a) Identify activities that are generally authorized by the Secretary and thus require no other authorization under this part;
(b) Identify activities that require specific authorization by the Secretary and explain how to request authorization; and
(c) Specify reporting requirements for authorized activities.
(d) Specify civil penalties and enforcement proceedings.
[80 FR 9375, Feb. 23, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 1979, Jan. 12, 2023]
§ 810.2
Scope.
(a) Part 810 (this part) applies to:
(1) All persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who directly or indirectly engage or participate in the development or production of any special nuclear material outside the United States; and
(2) The transfer of technology that involves any of the activities listed in paragraph (b) of this section either in the United States or abroad by such persons or by licensees, contractors or subsidiaries under their direction, supervision, responsibility, or control.
(b) The activities referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are:
(1) Chemical conversion and purification of uranium and thorium from milling plant concentrates and in all subsequent steps in the nuclear fuel cycle;
(2) Chemical conversion and purification of plutonium and neptunium;
(3) Nuclear fuel fabrication, including preparation of fuel elements, fuel assemblies and cladding thereof;
(4) Uranium isotope separation (uranium enrichment), plutonium isotope separation, and isotope separation of any other elements (including stable isotope separation) when the technology or process can be applied directly or indirectly to uranium or plutonium;
(5) Nuclear reactor development, production or use of the components within or attached directly to the reactor vessel, the equipment that controls the level of power in the core, and the equipment or components that normally contain or come in direct contact with or control the primary coolant of the reactor core;
(6) Development, production or use of production accelerator-driven subcritical assembly systems;
(7) Heavy water production and hydrogen isotope separation when the technology or process has reasonable potential for large-scale separation of deuterium (
2
H) from protium (
1
H);
(8) Reprocessing of irradiated nuclear fuel or targets containing special nuclear material, and post-irradiation examination of fuel elements, fuel assemblies and cladding thereof, if it is part of a reprocessing program; and
(9) The transfer of technology for the development, production, or use of equipment or material especially designed or prepared for any of the above listed activities. (
See
Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations at 10 CFR part 110, Appendices A through K, and O, for an illustrative list of items considered to be especially designed or prepared for certain listed nuclear activities.)
(c) This part does not apply to:
(1) Exports authorized by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Department of State, or Department of Commerce;
(2) Transfer of publicly available information, publicly available technology, or the results of fundamental research;
(3) Uranium and thorium mining and milling (
e.g.,
production of impure source material concentrates such as uranium yellowcake and all activities prior to that production step);
(4) Nuclear fusion reactors per se, except for supporting systems involving hydrogen isotope separation technologies within the scope defined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section and § 810.7(c)(3);
(5) Production or extraction of radiopharmaceutical isotopes when the process does not involve special nuclear material; and
(6) Transfer of technology to any individual who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States or is a protected individual under the Immigration and Naturalization Act (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)).
(d) Persons under U.S. jurisdiction are responsible for their foreign licensees, contractors, or subsidiaries to the extent that the former have control over the activities of the latter.
§ 810.3
Definitions.
As used in this part 810:
Agreement for cooperation
means an agreement with another nation or group of nations concluded under sections 123 or 124 of the Atomic Energy Act.
Assistance
means assistance in such forms as instruction, skills, training, working knowledge, consulting services, or any other assistance as determined by the Secretary. Assistance may involve the transfer of technical data.
Atomic Energy Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Classified information
means national security information classified under Executive Order 13526 or any predecessor or superseding order, and Restricted Data classified under the Atomic Energy Act.
Cooperative enrichment enterprise
means a multi-country or multi-company (where at least two of the companies are incorporated in different countries) joint development or production effort. The term includes a consortium of countries or companies or a multinational corporation.
Country,
as well as government, nation, state, and similar entity, shall be read to include Taiwan, consistent with section 4 of the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3303).
Development
means any activity related to all phases before production such as: Design, design research, design analysis, design concepts, assembly and testing of prototypes, pilot production schemes, design data, process of transforming design data into a product, configuration design, integration design, and layouts.
DOE
means the U.S. Department of Energy.
Enrichment
means isotope separation of uranium or isotope separation of plutonium, regardless of the type of process or separation mechanism used.
Fissile material
means isotopes that readily fission after absorbing a neutron of any energy, either fast or slow. Fissile materials are uranium-235, uranium-233, plutonium-239, and plutonium-241.
Foreign national
means an individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States, but excludes U.S. lawful permanent residents and protected individuals under the Immigration and Naturalization Act (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)).
Fundamental research
means basic and applied research in science and engineering, the results of which ordinarily are published and shared broadly within the scientific community, as distinguished from proprietary research and from industrial development, design, production, and product utilization, the results of which ordinarily are restricted for proprietary or national security reasons.
General authorization
means an authorization granted by the Secretary under section 57 b.(2) of the Atomic Energy Act to provide assistance or technology to foreign atomic energy activities subject to this part and which does not require a request for, or the Secretary's issuance of, a specific authorization.
IAEA
means the International Atomic Energy Agency.
NNPA
means the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, 22 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
NPT
means the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done on July 1, 1968.
Nuclear reactor
means an apparatus, other than a nuclear explosive device, designed or used to sustain nuclear fission in a self-sustaining chain reaction.
Operational safety
means the capability of a reactor to be operated in a manner that complies with national standards or requirements or widely-accepted international standards and recommendations to prevent uncontrolled or inadvertent criticality, prevent or mitigate uncontrolled release of radioactivity to the environment, monitor and limit staff exposure to radiation and radioactivity, and protect off-site population from exposure to radiation or radioactivity. Operational safety may be enhanced by providing expert advice, equipment, instrumentation, technology, software, services, analyses, procedures, training, or other assistance that improves the capability of the reactor to be operated in compliance with such standards, requirements or recommendations.
Person
means:
(1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution;
(2) Any group, government agency other than DOE, or any State or political entity within a State; and
(3) Any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Production
means all production phases such as: Construction, production engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly or mounting, inspection, testing, and quality assurance.
Production accelerator
means a particle accelerator especially designed, used, or intended for use with a production subcritical assembly.
Production accelerator-driven subcritical assembly system
means a system comprised of a production subcritical assembly and a production accelerator and which is especially designed, used, or intended for the production of plutonium or uranium-233. In such a system, the production accelerator target provides a source of neutrons used to effect special nuclear material production in the production subcritical assembly.
Production reactor
means a nuclear reactor especially designed or used primarily for the production of plutonium or uranium-233.
Production subcritical assembly
means an apparatus that contains source material or special nuclear material to produce a nuclear fission chain reaction that is not self-sustaining and that is especially designed, used, or intended for the production of plutonium or uranium-233.
Publicly available information
means information in any form that is generally accessible, without restriction, to the public.
Publicly available technology
means technology that is already published or has been prepared for publication; arises during, or results from, fundamental research; or is included in an application filed with the U.S. Patent Office and eligible for foreign filing under 35 U.S.C. 184.
Restricted Data
means all data concerning:
(1) Design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons;
(2) The production of special nuclear material; or
(3) The use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or
removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Atomic Energy Act.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
Sensitive nuclear technology
means any information (including information incorporated in a production or utilization facility or important component part thereof) which is not available to the public (see definition of “publicly available information”) and which is important to the design, construction, fabrication, operation, or maintenance of a uranium enrichment or nuclear fuel reprocessing facility or a facility for the production of heavy water, but shall not include Restricted Data controlled pursuant to chapter 12 of the Atomic Energy Act. The information may take a tangible form such as a model, prototype, blueprint, or operation manual or an intangible form such as assistance.
Source material
means:
(1) Uranium or thorium, other than special nuclear material; or
(2) Ores that contain by weight 0.05 percent or more of uranium or thorium, or any combination of these materials.
Special nuclear material
means:
(1) Plutonium,
(2) Uranium-233, or
(3) Uranium enriched above 0.711 percent by weight in the isotope uranium-235.
Specific authorization
means an authorization granted by the Secretary under section 57b.(2) of the Atomic Energy Act, in response to an application filed under this part, to engage in specifically authorized nuclear activities subject to this part.
Technical data
means data in such forms as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, engineering designs, specifications, manuals, and instructions written or recorded on other media or devices such as disks, tapes, read-only memories, and computational methodologies, algorithms, and computer codes that can directly or indirectly affect the production of special nuclear material.
Technology
means assistance or technical data required for the development, production or use of any plant, facility, or especially designed or prepared equipment for the activities described in § 810.2(b).
Use
means operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing.
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, includes Puerto Rico and all territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 810.4
Communications.
(a) All communications concerning the regulations in this part should be addressed to: U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585. Attention: Senior Policy Advisor, National Nuclear Security Administration/Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control (NPAC), Telephone (202) 586-1007.
(b) Communications also may be delivered to DOE's headquarters at 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585. All clearly marked proprietary information will be given the maximum protection allowed by law.
(c) Communications may also be delivered by email to:
Part810@nnsa.doe.gov
. For “fast track” activities described in §§ 810.6(c)(1) and (c)(2) emails should be sent to:
Part810-OperationalSafety@nnsa.doe.gov
. Notifications regarding activity in the Ukraine should be delivered by email to:
Part810-Ukraine@nnsa.doe.gov
.
§ 810.5
Interpretations.
(a) The advice of the DOE Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control may be requested on whether a proposed activity falls outside the scope of this part, is generally authorized under § 810.6, or requires a specific authorization under § 810.7. However, unless authorized by the Secretary in writing, no interpretation of the regulations in this part other than a written interpretation by the DOE General Counsel is binding upon DOE.
(b) When advice is requested from the DOE Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control, or a binding, written determination is requested from the DOE General Counsel, a response normally will be made within 30 calendar days and, if this is not feasible, an interim response will explain the reason for the delay.
(c) The DOE Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control may periodically publish abstracts of general or specific authorizations that may be of general interest, exclusive of proprietary business-confidential data submitted to DOE or other information protected by law from unauthorized disclosure.
§ 810.6
Generally authorized activities.
The Secretary has determined that the following activities are generally authorized, provided that no sensitive nuclear technology or assistance described in § 810.7 is involved:
(a) Engaging directly or indirectly in the production of special nuclear material at facilities in countries or with entities listed in the Appendix to this part;
(b) Transfer of technology to a citizen or national of a country other than the United States not listed in the Appendix to this part and working at an NRC-licensed facility, provided:
(1) The foreign national is lawfully employed by or contracted to work for a U.S. employer in the United States;
(2) The foreign national executes a confidentiality agreement with the U.S. employer to safeguard the technology from unauthorized use or disclosure;
(3) The foreign national has been granted unescorted access in accordance with NRC regulations at an NRC-licensed facility; and
(4) The foreign national's U.S. employer authorizing access to the technology complies with the reporting requirements in § 810.12(g).
(c) Activities at any safeguarded or NRC-licensed facility to:
(1) Prevent or correct a current or imminent radiological emergency posing a significant danger to the health and safety of the off-site population, which emergency in DOE's assessment cannot be met by other means, provided DOE is notified in writing in advance and does not object within 48 hours of receipt of the advance notification;
(2) Furnish operational safety information or assistance to existing safeguarded civilian nuclear reactors outside the United States in countries with safeguards agreements with the IAEA or an equivalent voluntary offer, provided DOE is notified in writing and approves the activity in writing within 45 calendar days of the notice. The applicant should provide all the information required under § 810.11 and specific references to the national or international safety standards or requirements for operational safety for nuclear reactors that will be addressed by the assistance; or
(3) Furnish operational safety information or assistance to existing, proposed, or new-build civilian nuclear facilities in the United States, provided DOE is notified by certified mail return receipt requested and approves the activity in writing within 45 calendar days of the notice. The applicant should provide all the information required under § 810.11.
(d) Participation in exchange programs approved by the Department of State in consultation with DOE;
(e) Activities carried out in the course of implementation of the “Agreement between the United States of America and the IAEA for the Application of Safeguards in the United States,” done on December 9, 1980;
(f) Activities carried out by persons who are full-time employees of the IAEA or whose employment by or work for the IAEA is sponsored or approved by the Department of State or DOE; or
(g) Extraction of Molybdenum-99 for medical use from irradiated targets of enriched uranium, provided that the activity does not also involve purification and recovery of enriched uranium materials, and provided further, that the technology used does not involve significant components relevant for reprocessing spent nuclear reactor fuel (
e.g.,
high-speed centrifugal contactors, pulsed columns).
§ 810.7
Activities requiring specific authorization.
Any person requires a specific authorization by the Secretary before:
(a) Engaging in any of the activities listed in § 810.2(b) with any foreign country or entity not specified in the Appendix to this part;
(b) Providing or transferring sensitive nuclear technology to any foreign country or entity; or
(c) Engaging in or providing technology (including assistance) for any of the following activities with respect to any foreign country or entity (or a citizen or national of that country other than U.S. lawful permanent residents or protected individuals under the Immigration and Naturalization Act (8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)):
(1) Uranium isotope separation (uranium enrichment), plutonium isotope separation, or isotope separation of any other elements (including stable isotope separation) when the technology or process can be applied directly or indirectly to uranium or plutonium;
(2) Fabrication of nuclear fuel containing plutonium, including preparation of fuel elements, fuel assemblies, and cladding thereof;
(3) Heavy water production, and hydrogen isotope separation, when the technology or process has reasonable potential for large-scale separation of deuterium (
2
H) from protium (
1
H);
(4) Development, production or use of a production accelerator-driven subcritical assembly system;
(5) Development, production or use of a production reactor; or
(6) Reprocessing of irradiated nuclear fuel or targets containing special nuclear material.
§ 810.8
Restrictions on general and specific authorization.
A general or specific authorization granted by the Secretary under this part:
(a) Is limited to activities involving only unclassified information and does not permit furnishing classified information;
(b) Does not relieve a person from complying with the relevant laws or the regulations of other U.S. Government agencies applicable to exports; and
(c) Does not authorize a person to engage in any activity when the person knows or has reason to know that the activity is intended to provide assistance in designing, developing, fabricating, or testing a nuclear explosive device.
§ 810.9
Grant of specific authorization.
(a) An application for authorization to engage in activities for which specific authorization is required under § 810.7 should be made to the U.S. Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, Washington, DC 20585, Attention: Senior Policy Advisor, Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control (NPAC).
(b) The Secretary will approve an application for specific authorization if it is determined, with the concurrence of the Department of State and after consultation with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Department of Commerce, and Department of Defense, that the activity will not be inimical to the interest of the United States. In making such a determination, the Secretary will take into account the following factors:
(1) Whether the United States has an agreement for cooperation in force covering exports to the country or entity involved;
(2) Whether the country is a party to, or has otherwise adhered to, the NPT;
(3) Whether the country is in good standing with its acknowledged nonproliferation commitments;
(4) Whether the country is in full compliance with its obligations under the NPT;
(5) Whether the country has accepted IAEA safeguards obligations on all nuclear materials used for peaceful purposes and has them in force;
(6) Whether other nonproliferation controls or conditions exist on the proposed activity, including that the recipient is duly authorized by the country to receive and use the technology sought to be transferred;
(7) Significance of the assistance or transferred technology relative to the existing nuclear capabilities of the country;
(8) Whether the transferred technology is part of an existing cooperative enrichment enterprise or the supply chain of such an enterprise;
(9) The availability of comparable assistance or technology from other sources; and
(10) Any other factors that may bear upon the political, economic, competitiveness, or security interests of the
United States, including the obligations of the United States under treaties or other international agreements, and the obligations of the country under treaties or other international agreements.
(c) If the proposed activity involves the export of sensitive nuclear technology, the requirements of sections 127 and 128 of the Atomic Energy Act and of any applicable United States international commitments must also be met. For the export of sensitive nuclear technology, in addition to the factors in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary will take into account:
(1) Whether the country has signed, ratified, and is implementing a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the IAEA and has in force an Additional Protocol based on the Model Additional Protocol, or, pending this, in the case of a regional accounting and control arrangement for nuclear materials, is implementing, in cooperation with the IAEA, a safeguards agreement approved by the IAEA Board of Governors prior to the publication of INFCIRC/540 (September 1997); or alternatively whether comprehensive safeguards, including the measures of the Model Additional Protocol, are being applied in the country;
(2) Whether the country has not been identified in a report by the IAEA Secretariat that is under consideration by the IAEA Board of Governors, as being in breach of obligations to comply with the applicable safeguards agreement, nor continues to be the subject of Board of Governors decisions calling upon it to take additional steps to comply with its safeguards obligations or to build confidence in the peaceful nature of its nuclear program, nor as to which the IAEA Secretariat has reported that it is unable to implement the applicable safeguards agreement. This criterion would not apply in cases where the IAEA Board of Governors or the United Nations Security Council subsequently decides that adequate assurances exist as to the peaceful purposes of the country's nuclear program and its compliance with the applicable safeguards agreements. For the purposes of this paragraph, “breach” refers only to serious breaches of proliferation concern;
(3) Whether the country is adhering to the Nuclear Suppliers Group Guidelines and, where applicable, has reported to the Security Council of the United Nations that it is implementing effective export controls as identified by Security Council Resolution 1540; and
(4) Whether the country adheres to international safety conventions relating to nuclear or other radioactive materials or facilities.
(d) Unless otherwise prohibited by U.S. law, the Secretary may grant an application for specific authorization for activities related to the enrichment of source material and special nuclear material, provided that:
(1) The U.S. Government has received written nonproliferation assurances from the government of the country;
(2) That it/they accept(s) the sensitive enrichment equipment and enabling technologies or an operable enrichment facility under conditions that do not permit or enable unauthorized replication of the facilities;
(3) That the subject enrichment activity will not result in the production of uranium enriched to greater than 20% in the isotope uranium-235; and
(4) That there are in place appropriate security arrangements to protect the activity from use or transfer inconsistent with the country's national laws.
(e) Approximately 30 calendar days after the Secretary's grant of a specific authorization, a copy of the Secretary's determination may be provided to any person requesting it at DOE's Public Reading Room, unless the applicant submits information demonstrating that public disclosure will cause substantial harm to its competitive position. This provision does not affect any other authority provided by law for the non-disclosure of information.
§ 810.10
Revocation, suspension, or modification of authorization.
The Secretary may revoke, suspend, or modify a general or specific authorization:
(a) For any material false statement in an application for specific authorization or in any additional information submitted in its support;
(b) For failing to provide a report or for any material false statement in a report submitted pursuant to § 810.12;
(c) If any authorization governed by this part is subsequently determined by the Secretary to be inimical to the interest of the United States or otherwise no longer meets the legal criteria for approval; or
(d) Pursuant to section 129 of the Atomic Energy Act.
§ 810.11
Information required in an application for specific authorization.
(a) An application letter must include the following information:
(1) The name, address, and citizenship of the applicant, and complete disclosure of all real parties in interest; if the applicant is a corporation or other legal entity, where it is incorporated or organized; the location of its principal office; and the degree of any control or ownership by any foreign individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution or government agency;
(2) The country or entity to receive the assistance or technology; the name and location of any facility or project involved; and the name and address of the person for which or whom the activity is to be performed;
(3) A description of the assistance or technology to be provided, including a complete description of the proposed activity, its approximate monetary value, and a detailed description of any specific project to which the activity relates as specified in §§ 810.9(b)(7), (8), and (9); and
(4) The designation of any information that if publicly disclosed would cause substantial harm to the competitive position of the applicant.
(b) Except as provided in § 810.6(b), an applicant seeking to employ a citizen or national of a country not listed in the Appendix in a position that could result in the transfer of technology subject to § 810.2, or seeking to employ any foreign national in the United States or in a foreign country that could result in the export of assistance or transfer of technology subject to § 810.7 must request a specific authorization. The applicant must provide, with respect to each foreign national to whom access to technology will be granted, the following:
(1) A description of the technology that would be made available to the foreign national;
(2) The purpose of the proposed transfer, a description of the applicant's technology control program, and any Nuclear Regulatory Commission standards applicable to the employer's grant of access to the technology;
(3) A copy of any confidentiality agreement to safeguard the technology from unauthorized use or disclosure between the applicant and the foreign national;
(4) Background information about the foreign national, including the individual's citizenship, all countries where the individual has resided for more than six months, the training or educational background of the individual, all work experience, any other known affiliations with persons engaged in activities subject to this part, and any current immigration or visa status in the United States; and
(5) A statement signed by the foreign national that he/she will comply with the regulations under this part; will not disclose the applicant's technology without DOE's prior written authorization; and will not, at any time during or after his/her employment with the applicant, use the applicant's technology for any nuclear explosive device, for research on or development of any nuclear explosive device, or in furtherance of any military purpose.
(c) An applicant for a specific authorization related to the enrichment of fissile material must submit information that demonstrates that the proposed transfer will avoid, so far as practicable, the transfer of enabling design or manufacturing technology associated with such items; and that the applicant will share with the recipient only information required for the regulatory purposes of the recipient country or to ensure the safe installation and operation of a resulting enrichment facility, without divulging enabling technology.
§ 810.12
Reports.
(a) Each person who has received a specific authorization shall, within 30
calendar days after beginning the authorized activity, provide to DOE a written report containing the following information:
(1) The name, address, and citizenship of the person submitting the report;
(2) The name, address, and citizenship of the person for whom or which the activity is being performed;
(3) A description of the activity, the date it began, its location, status, and anticipated date of completion; and
(4) A copy of the DOE letter authorizing the activity.
(b) Each person carrying out a specifically authorized activity shall inform DOE, in writing within 30 calendar days, of completion of the activity or of its termination before completion.
(c) Each person granted a specific authorization shall inform DOE, in writing within 30 calendar days, when it is known that the proposed activity will not be undertaken and the granted authorization will not be used.
(d) DOE may require reports to include such additional information that may be required by applicable U.S. law, regulation, or policy with respect to the specific nuclear activity or country for which specific authorization is required.
(e) Each person, within 30 calendar days after beginning any generally authorized activity under § 810.6, shall provide to DOE:
(1) The name, address, and citizenship of the person submitting the report;
(2) The name, address, and citizenship of the person for whom or which the activity is being performed;
(3) A description of the activity, the date it began, its location, status, and anticipated date of completion; and
(4) A written assurance that the applicant has an agreement with the recipient ensuring that any subsequent transfer of materials, equipment, or technology transferred under general authorization under circumstances in which the conditions in § 810.6 would not be met will take place only if the applicant obtains DOE's prior written approval.
(f) Individuals engaging in generally authorized activities as employees of persons required to report are not themselves required to submit the reports described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Persons engaging in generally authorized activities under § 810.6(b) are required to notify DOE that a citizen or national of a country not listed in the Appendix to this part has been granted access to information subject to § 810.2 in accordance with Nuclear Regulatory Commission access requirements. The report should contain the information required in § 810.11(b).
(h) All reports should be sent to: U.S. Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, Washington, DC 20585, Attention: Senior Policy Advisor, Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control (NPAC).
§ 810.13
Additional information.
DOE may at any time require a person engaging in any generally or specifically authorized activity to submit additional information.
§ 810.14
Special provisions regarding Ukraine.
(a)
Pre-activity notification requirements.
Any person beginning any generally authorized activity involving Ukraine shall provide to DOE at least ten days prior to beginning that activity a report containing the following information:
(1) The name, address, and citizenship of the person submitting the notification;
(2) The name, address, and citizenship of the person for which the activity is to be performed;
(3) A description of the activity, the date it is proposed to begin, its location, status, and anticipated date of completion; and
(4) A written assurance that the person that is to perform the activity has an agreement with the recipient that any subsequent transfer of technology or information transferred under general authorization will not be transferred to a country that is not listed in the Appendix to this part without the prior written approval of DOE.
(b)
Post-activity reporting requirements.
Every person completing a generally authorized activity in Ukraine shall
provide to DOE within ten days following the original transfer of technology or information written confirmation that such transfer was completed in accordance with the description of the activity provided as required by paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 810.15
Violations.
(a) The Atomic Energy Act provides that:
(1) In accordance with section 232 of the AEA, permanent or temporary injunctions, restraining or other orders may be granted to prevent a violation of any provision of the Atomic Energy Act or any regulation or order issued thereunder.
(2) In accordance with section 222 of the AEA, whoever willfully violates, attempts to violate, or conspires to violate any provision of section 57 of the Atomic Energy Act may be fined up to $10,000 or imprisoned up to 10 years, or both. If the offense is committed with intent to injure the United States or to aid any foreign nation, the penalty could be up to life imprisonment or a $20,000 fine, or both.
(b) In accordance with Title 18 of the United States Code, section 1001, whoever knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up a material fact or makes or uses false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations shall be fined under that title or imprisoned up to five or eight years depending on the crime, or both.
(c) In accordance with section 234 of the AEA, any person who violates any provision of section 57 b. of the AEA, as implemented under this part, shall be subject to a civil penalty, not to exceed $127,973 per violation, such amount to be adjusted annually for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015. If any violation is a continuing one, each day from the point at which the violating activity began to the point at which the violating activity was suspended shall constitute a separate violation for the purpose of computing the applicable civil penalty. The mere act of suspending an activity does not constitute admission that the activity was a violation and does not waive the rights and processes outlined in paragraphs (c)(4) through (14) of this section or otherwise impact the right of the person to appeal any civil penalty that may be imposed.
(1) In order to begin a proceeding to impose a civil penalty under this paragraph (c), the Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation or his/her designee, shall notify the person by a written notice of violation sent by registered or certified mail to the last known address of such person, of:
(i) The date, facts, and nature of each act or omission with which the person is charged;
(ii) The particular provision or provisions of section 57 b. of the AEA, as implemented under this part, involved in each alleged violation;
(iii) The penalty which DOE proposes to impose, including an explanation of how the factors at paragraph (c)(5) of this section were considered;
(iv) The opportunity of the person to submit a written reply within 30 calendar days of receipt of such preliminary notice of violation showing why such penalty should not be imposed; and
(v) The possibility of collection by civil action upon failure to pay the civil penalty.
(2) A reply to the notice of violation must:
(i) State any facts, explanations, and arguments which support a denial of the alleged violation;
(ii) Demonstrate any extenuating circumstances or other reason why a proposed penalty should not be imposed or should be mitigated;
(iii) Discuss the relevant authorities which support the position asserted;
(iv) Furnish full and complete answers to any questions set forth in the notice of violation; and
(v) Include copies of all relevant documents.
(3) If a person fails to submit a written reply within 30 calendar days of receipt of a notice of violation, the notice of violation, including any penalties therein, constitutes a final decision, and payment of the full amount of the civil penalty assessed in the notice of violation is due 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of violation. Such failure to submit a reply constitutes a waiver of the rights and
processes outlined in paragraphs (c)(4) through (14) of this section.
(4) The Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation or his/her designee, at the written request of a person notified of an alleged violation, may extend in writing, for a reasonable period, the time for submitting a reply.
(5) If a person submits a timely written reply to the notice of violation, the Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation will make a final determination whether the person violated or is continuing to violate a requirement of section 57 b. of the AEA, as implemented under this part. Based on a determination that a person has violated or is continuing to violate a requirement of section 57 b., as implemented under this part, the Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation will issue to that person a final notice of violation that concisely states the violation, the amount of the civil penalty imposed, including an explanation of how the factors in this paragraph were considered, further actions necessary by or available to the person, and that upon failure to timely pay the civil penalty, the penalty may be collected by civil action. The Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation will send such a final notice of violation by registered or certified mail to the last known address of the person. The amount of the civil penalty will be based on:
(i) The nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation or violations;
(ii) The violator's ability to pay;
(iii) The effect of the civil penalty on the person's ability to do business;
(iv) Any history of prior violations;
(v) The degree of culpability;
(vi) Whether the violator self-disclosed the violation;
(vii) The economic significance of the violation; and (viii) Such other factors as justice may require.
(6) Any person who receives a final notice of violation under paragraph (c)(5) of this section may request a hearing concerning the allegations contained in the notice. The person must mail or deliver any written request for a hearing to the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security within 30 calendar days of receipt of the final notice of violation. If the person does not request a hearing within 30 calendar days, the final notice of violation, including any penalties therein, constitutes a final decision, and payment of the full amount of the civil penalty assessed in the final notice of violation is due 45 calendar days after receipt of the final notice of violation.
(7) Upon receipt from a person of a written request for a hearing, the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security or his/her designee, shall:
(i) Appoint a Hearing Counsel; and
(ii) Forward the request to the DOE Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA). The OHA Director shall appoint an OHA Administrative Judge to preside at the hearing.
(8) The Hearing Counsel shall be an attorney employed by DOE, and shall have all powers necessary to represent DOE before the OHA.
(9) In all hearings under this paragraph (c):
(i) The parties have the right to be represented by a person of their choosing, subject to possessing an appropriate information access authorization for the subject matter. The parties are responsible for producing witnesses on their behalf, including requesting the issuance of subpoenas, if necessary;
(ii) Testimony of witnesses is given under oath or affirmation, and witnesses must be advised of the applicability of 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 18 U.S.C. 1621, dealing with the criminal penalties associated with false statements and perjury;
(iii) Witnesses are subject to cross-examination;
(iv) Formal rules of evidence do not apply, but OHA may use the Federal Rules of Evidence as a guide; and
(v) A court reporter will make a transcript of the hearing.
(vi) The Administrative Judge has all powers necessary to regulate the conduct of proceedings:
(vii) The Administrative Judge may order discovery at the request of a party, based on a showing that the requested discovery is designed to produce evidence regarding a matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter of the complaint;
(viii) The Administrative Judge may permit parties to obtain discovery by any appropriate method, including deposition upon oral examination or written questions; written interrogatories; production of documents or things; permission to enter upon land or other property for inspection and other purposes; and requests for admission;
(ix) The Administrative Judge may issue subpoenas for the appearance of witnesses on behalf of either party, or for the production of specific documents or other physical evidence;
(x) The Administrative Judge may rule on objections to the presentation of evidence; exclude evidence that is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious; require the advance submission of documents offered as evidence; dispose of procedural requests; grant extensions of time; determine the format of the hearing; direct that written motions, documents, or briefs be filed with respect to issues raised during the course of the hearing; ask questions of witnesses; direct that documentary evidence be served upon other parties (under protective order if such evidence is deemed confidential); and otherwise regulate the conduct of the hearing;
(xi) The Administrative Judge may, at the request of a party or on his or her own initiative, dismiss a claim, defense, or party and make adverse findings upon the failure of a party or the party's representative to comply with a lawful order of the Administrative Judge, or, without good cause, to attend a hearing;
(xii) The Administrative Judge, upon request of a party, may allow the parties a reasonable time to file pre-hearing briefs or written statements with respect to material issues of fact or law. Any pre-hearing submission must be limited to the issues specified and filed within the time prescribed by the Administrative Judge;
(xiii) The parties are entitled to make oral closing arguments, but post-hearing submissions are only permitted by direction of the Administrative Judge;
(xiv) Parties allowed to file written submissions, or documentary evidence must serve copies upon the other parties within the timeframe prescribed by the Administrative Judge;
(xv) The Administrative Judge is prohibited, beginning with his or her appointment and until a final agency decision is issued, from initiating or otherwise engaging in
ex parte
(private) discussions with any party on the merits of the complaint;
(xvi) The Administrative Judge is responsible for determining the date, time, and location of the hearing, including whether the hearing will be conducted via video conference; and
(xvii) The Administrative Judge shall convene the hearing within 180 days of the OHA's receipt of the request for a hearing, unless the parties agree to an extension of this deadline by mutual written consent, or the Administrative Judge determines that extraordinary circumstances exist that require a delay.
(10) Hearings shall be open only to Hearing Counsel, duly authorized representatives of DOE, the person and the person's counsel or other representatives, and such other persons as may be authorized by the Administrative Judge. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Judge, witnesses shall testify in the presence of the person but not in the presence of other witnesses.
(11) The Administrative Judge must use procedures appropriate to safeguard and prevent unauthorized disclosure of classified information or any other information protected from public disclosure by law or regulation, with minimum impairment of rights and obligations under this part. The classified or otherwise protected status of any information shall not, however, preclude its being introduced into evidence. The Administrative Judge may issue such orders as may be necessary to consider such evidence in camera including the preparation of a supplemental recommended decision to address issues of law or fact that arise out of that portion of the evidence that is classified or otherwise protected.
(12) DOE shall have the burden of proving the violation(s) as set forth in the final notice of violation by a preponderance of the evidence. The person
to whom the notice of violation is addressed shall have the burden of proving any affirmative defense by a preponderance of the evidence. The amount of the penalty associated with any violation which is upheld shall be adopted by the Administrative Judge unless not supported by the facts, in which event the Administrative Judge will include such information in the Administrative Judge's recommended decisions to the Under Secretary for reconsideration of the amount of the penalty based on the Administrate Judge's resolution of the factual issues.
(13) Within 180 days of receiving a copy of the hearing transcript, or the closing of the record, whichever is later, the Administrative Judge shall issue a recommended decision. The recommended decision shall contain findings of fact and conclusions regarding all material issues of law, as well as the reasons therefor. If the Administrative Judge determines that a violation has occurred and that a civil penalty is appropriate, the recommended decision shall set forth the amount of the civil penalty based on the factors in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(14) The Administrative Judge shall forward the recommended decision to the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security. The Under Secretary for Nuclear Security shall make a final decision as soon as practicable after completing his/her review. This may include compromising, mitigating, or remitting the penalties in accordance with section 234 a. of the AEA, as amended. DOE shall notify the person of the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security's final decision or other action under this paragraph in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested. The person against whom the civil penalty is assessed by the final decision shall pay the full amount of the civil penalty assessed in the final decision within 30 calendar days unless otherwise determined by the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security.
(15) If a civil penalty assessed in a final decision is not paid as provided in paragraphs(c)(3), (6), or (14) of this section, as appropriate, the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security may request the Department of Justice to initiate a civil action to collect the penalty imposed under this paragraph in accordance with section 234 c. of the AEA.
(16) The Under Secretary for Nuclear Security or his/her designee may publish redacted versions of notices of violation and final decisions.
[80 FR 9375, Feb. 23, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 1979, Jan. 12, 2023; 89 FR 1028, Jan. 9, 2024; 89 FR 105406, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 810.16
Effective date and savings clause.
(a) The regulations in this part are effective March 25, 2015.
(b) Except for actions that may be taken by DOE pursuant to § 810.10, the regulations in this part do not affect the validity or terms of any specific authorizations granted under regulations in effect before March 25, 2015 or generally authorized activities under those regulations for which the contracts, purchase orders, or licensing arrangements were already in effect. Persons engaging in activities that were generally authorized under regulations in effect before March 25, 2015, but that require specific authorization under the regulations in this part, must request specific authorization by August 24, 2015 and may continue their activities until DOE acts on the request.
Pt. 810, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 810—Generally Authorized Destinations
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Brazil
Bulgaria
Canada
Chile (For all activities related to INFCIRC/834 only)
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Indonesia
International Atomic Energy Agency
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Kazakhstan
Korea, Republic of
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Mexico
Morocco
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
Turkey
Ukraine (Refer to § 810.14 for specific information and requirements)
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
Vietnam
[80 FR 9375, Feb. 23, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 8219, Feb. 8, 2023]
Pt. 820

# PART 820—PROCEDURAL RULES FOR DOE NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
820.1
Purpose and scope.
820.2
Definitions.
820.3
Separation of functions.
820.4
Conflict of interest.
820.5
Service.
820.6
Computation and extension of time.
820.7
Questions of policy or law.
820.8
Evidentiary matters.
820.9
Special assistant.
820.10
Office of the docketing clerk.
820.11
Information requirements.
820.12
Classified, confidential, and controlled information.
820.13
Direction to NNSA contractors.
820.14
Whistleblower protection.

# Subpart B—Enforcement Process
820.20
Purpose and scope.
820.21
Investigations.
820.22
Informal conference.
820.23
Consent order.
820.24
Preliminary notice of violation.
820.25
Final notice of violation.
820.26
Enforcement adjudication.
820.27
Answer.
820.28
Prehearing actions.
820.29
Hearing.
820.30
Post-hearing filings.
820.31
Initial decision.
820.32
Final order.
820.33
Default order.
820.34
Accelerated decision.
820.35
Ex parte
discussions.
820.36
Filing, form, and service of documents.
820.37
Participation in an adjudication.
820.38
Consolidation and severance.
820.39
Motions.

# Subpart C—Compliance Orders
820.40
Purpose and scope.
820.41
Compliance order.
820.42
Final order.
820.43
Appeal.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
820.50
Purpose and scope.
820.51
General Counsel.
820.52
Procedures.

# Subpart E—Exemption Relief
820.60
Purpose and scope.
820.61
Secretarial officer.
820.62
Criteria.
820.63
Procedures.
820.64
Terms and conditions.
820.65
Implementation plan.
820.66
Appeal.
820.67
Final order.

# Subpart F—Criminal Penalties
820.70
Purpose and scope.
820.71
Standard.
820.72
Referral to the Attorney General.

# Subpart G—Civil Penalties
820.80
Basis and purpose.
820.81
Amount of penalty.
Appendix A to Part 820—General Statement of Enforcement Policy

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201; 2282(a); 7191; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 50 U.S.C. 2410.

# Source:
58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 820.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Scope.
This part sets forth the procedures to govern the conduct of persons involved in DOE nuclear activities and, in particular, to achieve compliance with the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements by all persons subject to those requirements.
(b)
Questions not addressed by these rules.
Questions that are not addressed in this part shall be resolved at the discretion of the DOE Official.
(c)
Exclusion.
Activities and facilities covered under E.O. 12344, 42 U.S.C. 7158 note, pertaining to Naval nuclear propulsion are excluded from the requirements of subparts D and E of this part regarding interpretations and exemptions related to this part. The Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors or his designee will be responsible for formulating, issuing, and maintaining appropriate records of interpretations and exemptions for these facilities and activities.
[58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006]
§ 820.2
Definitions.
(a) The following definitions apply to this part:
Act
or
AEA
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Administrative Law Judge
means an Administrative Law Judge appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Consent Agreement
means any written document, signed by the Director and a person, containing stipulations or conclusions of fact or law and a remedy acceptable to both the Director and the person.
Contractor
means any person under contract (or its subcontractors or suppliers) with the Department of Energy with the responsibility to perform activities or to supply services or products that are subject to DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements.
Department
means the United States Department of Energy or any predecessor agency.
Director
means the DOE Official to whom the Secretary has assigned the authority to issue Notices of Violation under subpart B of this part, including the Director of Enforcement, or his designee. With regard to activities and facilities covered under E.O. 12344, 42 U.S.C. 7158 note, pertaining to Naval nuclear propulsion, the Director shall mean the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors or his designee.
Docketing Clerk
means the Office in DOE with which documents for an enforcement action must be filed and which is responsible for maintaining a record and a public docket for enforcement actions commencing with the filing of a Preliminary Notice of Violation. It is also the Office with which interpretations, exemptions, and any other documents designated by the Secretary shall be filed.
DOE
means the United States Department of Energy or any predecessor agency.
DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements
means the set of rules, regulations, orders, and other requirements relating to nuclear safety adopted by DOE to govern the conduct of persons in connection with any DOE nuclear activity and includes any program, plan, or other provision required to implement these rules, regulations, orders, or other requirements. DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements include the following:
(i) 10 CFR part 830;
(ii) 10 CFR part 835;
(iii) 10 CFR 820.11;
(iv) Compliance Orders issued pursuant to 10 CFR part 820, subpart C; and
(v) 10 CFR 708.43, to the extent that subject activities concern nuclear safety.
DOE Official
means the person, or his designee, in charge of making a decision under this part.
Enforcement adjudication
means the portion of the enforcement process that commences when a respondent requests an on-the-record adjudication of the assessment of a civil penalty and terminates when a Presiding Officer files an initial decision.
Exemption
means the final order that sets forth the relief, waiver, or release, either temporary or permanent, from a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, as granted by the appropriate Secretarial Officer pursuant to the provisions of subpart E of this part.
Filing
means, except as otherwise specifically indicated, the completion of providing a document to the Office of the Docketing Clerk and serving the document on the person to whom the document is addressed.
Final Notice of Violation
means a document issued by the Director in which the Director determines that the respondent has violated or is continuing to violate a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement and includes:
(i) A statement specifying the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement to which the violation relates;
(ii) A concise statement of the basis for the determination;
(iii) Any remedy, including the amount of any civil penalty;
(iv) A statement explaining the reasoning behind any remedy; and
(v) If the Notice assesses a civil penalty, notice of respondent's right:
(A) To waive further proceedings and pay the civil penalty;
(B) To request an on-the-record adjudication of the assessment of the civil penalty; or
(C) To seek judicial review of the assessment of the civil penalty.
Final Order
means an order of the Secretary that represents final agency
action and, where appropriate, imposes a remedy with which the recipient of the order must comply.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of DOE or his designee.
Hearing
means an on-the-record enforcement adjudication open to the public and conducted under the procedures set forth in subpart B of this part.
Initial Decision
means the decision filed by the Presiding Officer based upon the record of the enforcement adjudication out of which it arises.
Interpretation
means a statement by the General Counsel concerning the meaning or effect of the Act, a Nuclear Statute, or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement which relates to a specific factual situation but may also be a ruling of general applicability where the General Counsel determines such action to be appropriate.
NNSA
means the National Nuclear Security Administration.
Nuclear Statute
means any statute or provision of a statute that relates to a DOE nuclear activity and for which DOE is responsible.
Party
means the Director and the respondent in an enforcement adjudication under this part.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency, any State or political subdivision of, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity and any legal successor, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing; provided that person does not include the Department or the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. For purposes of civil penalty assessment, the term also includes affiliated entities, such as a parent corporation.
Preliminary Notice of Violation
means a document issued by the Director in which the Director sets forth the preliminary conclusions that the respondent has violated or is continuing to violate a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement and includes:
(i) A statement specifying the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement to which the violation relates;
(ii) A concise statement of the basis for alleging the violation;
(iii) Any proposed remedy, including the amount of any proposed civil penalty; and
(iv) A statement explaining the reasoning behind any proposed remedy.
Presiding Officer
means the Administrative Law Judge designated to be in charge of an enforcement adjudication who shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, assure that the facts are fully elicited, adjudicate all issues, avoid delay, and shall have authority to:
(i) Conduct an adjudicatory hearing under this part;
(ii) Rule upon motions, requests, and offers of proof, dispose of procedural requests, and issue all necessary orders;
(iii) Exercise the authority set forth in § 820.8;
(iv) Admit or exclude evidence;
(v) Hear and decide questions of fact, law, or discretion, except for the validity of regulations and interpretations issued by DOE;
(vi) Require parties to attend conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues, or the expedition of the proceedings;
(vii) Draw adverse inferences against a party that fails to comply with his orders;
(viii) Do all other acts and take all measures necessary for the maintenance of order and for the efficient, fair and impartial adjudication of issues arising in proceedings governed by these rules.
Remedy
means any action necessary or appropriate to rectify, prevent, or penalize a violation of the Act, a Nuclear Statute, or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, including the assessment of civil penalties, the requirement of specific actions, or the modification, suspension or recision of a contract.
Respondent
means any person to whom the Director addresses a Notice of Violation.
Secretarial Officer
means an individual who is appointed to a position in the Department by the President of the United States with the advice and consent of the Senate or the head of a departmental element who is primarily
responsible for the conduct of an activity under the Act. With regard to activities and facilities covered under E.O. 12344, 42 U.S.C. 7158 note, pertaining to Naval nuclear propulsion, Secretarial Officer means the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy or his designee.
(b) Terms defined in the Act and not defined in these rules are used consistent with the meanings given in the Act.
(c) As used in this part, words in the singular also include the plural and words in the masculine gender also include the feminine and vice versa, as the case may require.
[58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 72 FR 31921, June 8, 2007; 81 FR 94913, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 820.3
Separation of functions.
(a)
Separation of functions.
After a respondent requests an on-the-record adjudication of an assessment of a civil penalty contained in a Final Notice of Violation, no person shall participate in a decision-making function in an enforcement proceeding if he has been, is or will be responsible for an investigative or prosecutorial function related to that proceeding or if he reports to the person responsible for the investigative or prosecutorial function.
(b)
Director.
The Director shall be responsible for the investigation and prosecution of violations of the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. After the request for an enforcement adjudication, the Director shall not discuss
ex parte
the merits of the proceeding with a DOE Official or any person likely to advise the DOE Official in the decision of the proceeding.
(c)
Presiding Officer.
A Presiding Officer shall perform no duties inconsistent with his responsibilities as a Presiding Officer, and will not be responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of any officer or employee engaged in the performance of an investigative or prosecutorial function. The Presiding Officer may not consult any person other than a member of his staff or a special assistant on any fact at issue unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate, except as required for the disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law.
§ 820.4
Conflict of interest.
A DOE Official may not perform functions provided for in this part regarding any matter in which he has a financial interest or has any relationship that would make it inappropriate for him to act. A DOE Official shall withdraw at any time from any action in which he deems himself disqualified or unable to act for any reason. Any interested person may at any time request the General Counsel to disqualify a DOE Official or request that the General Counsel disqualify himself. In the case of an enforcement adjudication, a motion to disqualify shall be made to the Presiding Officer. The request shall be supported by affidavits setting forth the grounds for disqualification of the DOE Official. A decision shall be made as soon as practicable and information may be requested from any person concerning the matter. If a DOE Official is disqualified or withdraws from the proceeding, a qualified individual who has none of the infirmities listed in this section shall replace him.
§ 820.5
Service.
(a)
General rule.
Any document filed with the Docketing Clerk must be served on the addressee of the document and shall not be considered filed until service is complete and unless accompanied by proof of service; provided that the filing with the Docketing Clerk of any document addressed to the DOE Official shall be considered service on the DOE Official.
(b)
Service in an Enforcement Adjudication.
Any document filed in an enforcement adjudication must be served on all other participants in the adjudication.
(c)
Who may be served.
Any paper required to be served upon a person shall be served upon him or upon the representative designated by him or by law to receive service of papers. When an attorney has entered an appearance on behalf of a person, service must be made upon the attorney of record.
(d)
How service may be made.
Service may be made by personal delivery, by first class, certified or registered mail or as otherwise authorized or required
by the DOE Official. The DOE Official may require service by express mail.
(e)
When service is complete.
Service upon a person is complete:
(1) By personal delivery, on handing the paper to the individual, or leaving it at his office with his clerk or other person in charge or, if there is no one in charge, leaving it in a conspicuous place therein or, if the office is closed or the person to be served has no office, leaving it at his usual place of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing there;
(2) By mail, on deposit in the United States mail, properly stamped and addressed; or
(3) By any other means authorized or required by the DOE Official.
(f)
Proof of service.
Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom served and the manner and date of service, shall be shown for each document filed, and may be made by:
(1) Written acknowledgement of the person served or his counsel;
(2) The certificate of counsel if he has made the service;
(3) The affidavit of the person making the service; or
(4) Any other means authorized or required by the DOE Official.
(g)
Deemed service.
If a document is deemed filed under this part, then the service requirements shall be deemed satisfied when the document is deemed filed.
§ 820.6
Computation and extension of time.
(a)
Computation.
In computing any period of time set forth in this part, except as otherwise provided, the day of the event from which the designated period begins to run shall not be included. Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays shall be included. When a stated time expires on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal legal holiday, the stated time period shall be extended to include the next business day.
(b)
Extensions of time.
A DOE Official may grant an extension of any time period set forth in this part.
(c)
Service by mail.
Where a pleading or document is served by mail, five (5) days shall be added to the time allowed by these rules for the filing of a responsive pleading or document. Where a pleading or document is served by express mail, only two (2) days shall be added.
§ 820.7
Questions of policy or law.
(a)
Certification.
There shall be no interlocutory appeal from any ruling order, or action decision of a DOE Official except as permitted by this section. A Presiding Officer in an enforcement adjudication may certify, in his discretion, a question to the Secretary, when the order or ruling involves an important question of law or policy concerning which there is substantial grounds for difference of opinion, and either an immediate decision will materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding, or subsequent review will be inadequate or ineffective.
(b)
Decision.
The certified question shall be decided as soon as practicable. If the Secretary determines that the question was improvidently certified, or if he takes no action within thirty days of the certification, the certification is dismissed. The Secretary may decide the question on the basis of the submission made by the Presiding Officer or may request further information from any person.
§ 820.8
Evidentiary matters.
(a)
General.
A DOE Official may obtain information or evidence for the full and complete investigation of any matter related to a DOE nuclear activity or for any decision required by this part. A DOE Official may sign, issue and serve subpoenas; administer oaths and affirmations; take sworn testimony; compel attendance of and sequester witnesses; control dissemination of any record of testimony taken pursuant to this section; subpoena and reproduce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other relevant records or tangible evidence including, but not limited to, information retained in computerized or other automated systems in possession of the subpoenaed person.
(b)
Special Report Orders.
A DOE Official may issue a Special Report Order (SRO) requiring any person involved in
a DOE nuclear activity or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of DOE to file a special report providing information relating to a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, the Act, or a Nuclear Statute, including but not limited to written answers to specific questions. The SRO may be in addition to any other reports required by this part.
(c)
Extension of Time.
The DOE Official who issues a subpoena or SRO pursuant to this section, for good cause shown, may extend the time prescribed for compliance with the subpoena or SRO and negotiate and approve the terms of satisfactory compliance.
(d)
Reconsideration.
Prior to the time specified for compliance, but in no event more than 10 days after the date of service of the subpoena or SRO, the person upon whom the document was served may request reconsideration of the subpoena or SRO with the DOE Official who issued the document. If the subpoena or SRO is not modified or rescinded within 10 days of the date of the filing of the request, the subpoena or SRO shall be effective as issued and the person upon whom the document was served shall comply with the subpoena or SRO within 20 days of the date of the filing. There is no administrative appeal of a subpoena or SRO.
(e)
Service.
A subpoena or SRO shall be served in the manner set forth in § 820.5, except that service by mail must be made by registered or certified mail.
(f)
Fees.
(1) A witness subpoenaed by a DOE Official shall be paid the same fees and mileage as paid to a witness in the district courts of the United States.
(2) If a subpoena is issued at the request of a person other than an officer or agency of the United States, the witness fees and mileage shall be paid by the person who requested the subpoena. However, at the request of the person, the witness fees and mileage shall be paid by the DOE if the person shows:
(i) The presence of the subpoenaed witness will materially advance the proceeding; and
(ii) The person who requested that the subpoena be issued would suffer a serious hardship if required to pay the witness fees and mileage. The DOE Official issuing the subpoena shall make the determination required by this subsection.
(g)
Enforcement.
If any person upon whom a subpoena or SRO is served pursuant to this section, refuses or fails to comply with any provision of the subpoena or SRO, an action may be commenced in the United States District Court to enforce the subpoena or SRO.
(h)
Certification.
(1) Documents produced in response to a subpoena shall be accompanied by the sworn certification, under penalty of perjury, of the person to whom the subpoena was directed or his authorized agent that a diligent search has been made for each document responsive to the subpoena, and to the best of his knowledge, information, and belief all such documents responsive to the subpoena are being produced unless withheld on the grounds of privilege pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section.
(2) Any information furnished in response to an SRO shall be accompanied by the sworn certification under penalty of perjury of the person to whom it was directed or his authorized agent who actually provides the information that to the best of his knowledge, information and belief a diligent effort has been made to provide all information required by the SRO, and all information furnished is true, complete, and correct unless withheld on grounds of privilege pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section.
(3) If any document responsive to a subpoena is not produced or any information required by an SRO is not furnished, the certification shall include a statement setting forth every reason for failing to comply with the subpoena or SRO.
(i)
Withheld information.
If a person to whom a subpoena or SRO is directed withholds any document or information because of a claim of attorney-client or other privilege, the person submitting the certification required by paragraph (h) of this section also shall submit a written list of the documents or the information withheld indicating a description of each document or information, the date of the document, each person shown on the document as
having received a copy of the document, each person shown on the document as having prepared or been sent the document, the privilege relied upon as the basis for withholding the document or information, a memorandum of law supporting the claim of privilege, and an identification of the person whose privilege is being asserted.
(j)
Statements/testimony.
(1) If a person's statement/testimony is taken pursuant to a subpoena, the DOE Official shall determine whether the statement/testimony shall be recorded and the means by which it is recorded.
(2) A person whose statement/testimony is recorded may procure a copy of the transcript by making a written request for a copy and paying the appropriate fees. Upon proper identification, any potential witness or his attorney has the right to inspect the official transcript of the witness' own statement or testimony.
(k)
Sequestration.
The DOE Official may sequester any person who furnishes documents or gives testimony. Unless permitted by the DOE Official, neither a witness nor his attorney shall be present during the examination of any other witnesses.
(l)
Attorney.
(1) Any person whose statement or testimony is taken may be accompanied, represented and advised by his attorney; provided that, if the witness claims a privilege to refuse to answer a question on the grounds of self-incrimination, the witness must assert the privilege personally.
(2) The DOE Official shall take all necessary action to regulate the course of testimony and to avoid delay and prevent or restrain contemptuous or obstructionist conduct or contemptuous language. The DOE Official may take actions as the circumstances may warrant in regard to any instances where any attorney refuses to comply with directions or provisions of this section.
§ 820.9
Special assistant.
A DOE Official may appoint a person to serve as a special assistant to assist the DOE Official in the conduct of any proceeding under this part. Such appointment may occur at any appropriate time. A special assistant shall be subject to the disqualification provisions in § 820.5. A special assistant may perform those duties assigned by the DOE Official, including but not limited to, serving as technical interrogators, technical advisors and special master.
§ 820.10
Office of the docketing clerk.
(a)
Docket.
The Docketing Clerk shall maintain a docket for enforcement actions commencing with the issuance of a Preliminary Notice of Violation, interpretations issued pursuant to subpart D of this part, exemptions issued pursuant to subpart E of this part, and any other matters designated by the Secretary. A docket for an enforcement action shall contain all documents required to be filed in the proceeding.
(b)
Public inspection.
Subject to the provisions of law restricting the public disclosure of certain information, any person may, during Department business hours, inspect and copy any document filed with the Docketing Clerk. The cost of duplicating documents shall be borne by the person seeking copies of such documents. The DOE Official may waive this cost in appropriate cases.
(c)
Transcript.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, after the filing of a Preliminary Notice of Violation, all hearings, conferences, and other meetings in the enforcement process shall be transcribed verbatim. A copy of the transcript shall be filed with the Docketing Clerk promptly. The Docketing Clerk shall serve all participants with notice of the availability of the transcript and shall furnish the participants with a copy of the transcript upon payment of the cost of reproduction, unless a participant can show that the cost is unduly burdensome.
§ 820.11
Information requirements.
(a) Any information pertaining to a nuclear activity provided to DOE by any person or maintained by any person for inspection by DOE shall be complete and accurate in all material respects.
(b) No person involved in a DOE nuclear activity shall conceal or destroy any information concerning a violation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, a Nuclear Statute, or the Act.
§ 820.12
Classified, confidential, and controlled information
(a)
General rule.
The DOE Official in charge of a proceeding under this part may utilize any procedures deemed appropriate to safeguard and prevent disclosure of classified, confidential, and controlled information, including Restricted Data and National Security Information, to unauthorized persons, with minimum impairment of rights and obligations under this part.
(b)
Obligation to protect restricted information.
Nothing in this part shall relieve any person from safeguarding classified, confidential, and controlled information, including Restricted Data or National Security Information, in accordance with the applicable provisions of federal statutes and the rules, regulations, and orders of any federal agency.
§ 820.13
Direction to NNSA contractors.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, and pursuant to section 3213 of Pub. L. 106-65, as amended (codified at 50 U.S.C. 2403), the NNSA, rather than the Director, signs, issues and serves the following actions that direct NNSA contractors:
(1) Subpoenas;
(2) Orders to compel attendance;
(3) Disclosures of information or documents obtained during an investigation or inspection;
(4) Preliminary notices of violations; and
(5) Final notices of violations.
(b) The NNSA Administrator shall act after consideration of the Director's recommendation.
[72 FR 31921, June 8, 2007]
§ 820.14
Whistleblower protection.
(a)
Covered acts.
An act of retaliation (as defined in 10 CFR 708.2) by a DOE contractor, prohibited by 10 CFR 708.43, that results from a DOE contractor employee's involvement in an activity listed in 10 CFR 708.5(a) through (c) may constitute a violation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement if it concerns nuclear safety.
(b)
Commencement of investigation.
The Director may not initiate an investigation or take any other action under this part with respect to an alleged act of retaliation by a DOE contractor until 180 days after an alleged violation of 10 CFR 708.43 occurs.
(c)
Administrative or judicial proceedings.
The Director shall immediately suspend any ongoing activities under this part and suspend any time limits under this part when an administrative or judicial proceeding commences based on the same alleged act of retaliation. While an administrative or judicial proceeding, including appeals, is pending, the Director may not exercise any authority under this part based on an alleged violation of 10 CFR 708.43, including issuing enforcement letters, subpoenas, orders to compel attendance, Consent Orders, Preliminary Notices of Violation, or Final Notices of Violation. Once such a proceeding commences, the Director shall not conduct any activities under this part until sixty days after a final decision of an agency or court finds that a retaliation occurred, or otherwise makes a final disposition of the matter on procedural grounds without explicitly finding that retaliation did not occur.
(d)
Final decision.
For the purposes of this section, a final decision of an agency or court includes any of the following:
(1) A final agency decision pursuant to 10 CFR part 708;
(2) A final decision or order of the Secretary of Labor pursuant to 29 CFR part 24;
(3) A decision by the Secretary upon a report by the Inspector General;
(4) A decision by a federal or state court.
(e)
Evidentiary record.
If a final decision of an agency or court finds that retaliation occurred, the Director may obtain and use information collected as part of those proceedings. The Director has discretion to give appropriate weight to information obtained from these proceedings and to initiate and conduct further investigation if the Director deems necessary, particularly with regard to the relationship between the retaliation and nuclear safety.
(f)
Underlying nuclear safety requirements.
Notwithstanding the commencement of an administrative or judicial proceeding based on an alleged act of
retaliation, this section shall not prevent the Director from taking any action consistent with this part regarding compliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements other than 10 CFR 708.43.
[81 FR 94914, Dec. 27, 2016]

# Subpart B—Enforcement Process
§ 820.20
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart establishes the procedures for investigating the nature and extent of violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, for determining whether a violation of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements has occurred, for imposing an appropriate remedy, and for adjudicating the assessment of a civil penalty.
(b)
Basis for civil penalties.
DOE may assess civil penalties against any person subject to the provisions of this part who has entered into an agreement of indemnification under 42 U.S.C. 2210(d) (or any subcontractor or supplier thereto), unless exempted from civil penalties as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, on the basis of a violation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement.
(c)
Exemptions.
With respect to a violation occurring under a contract entered into before August 8, 2005, the following contractors, and subcontractors and suppliers to that prime contract only, are exempt from the assessment of civil penalties under this subpart with respect to the activities specified below:
(1) The University of Chicago for activities associated with Argonne National Laboratory;
(2) The University of California for activities associated with Los Alamos National Laboratory, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;
(3) American Telephone and Telegraph Company and its subsidiaries for activities associated with Sandia National Laboratories;
(4) University Research Association, Inc. for activities associated with FERMI National Laboratory;
(5) Princeton University for activities associated with Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory;
(6) The Associated Universities, Inc. for activities associated with the Brookhaven National Laboratory; and
(7) Battelle Memorial Institute for activities associated with Pacific Northwest Laboratory.
(d)
Nonprofit educational institutions.
With respect to a violation occurring under a contract entered into before August 8, 2005, any educational institution that is considered nonprofit under the United States Internal Revenue Code shall receive automatic remission of any civil penalty assessed under this part.
(e)
Limitation for not-for-profits.
With respect to any violation occurring under a contract entered into on or after August 8, 2005, in the case of any not-for-profit contractor, subcontractor, or supplier, the total amount of civil penalties paid under this part may not exceed the total amount of fees paid by DOE to that entity within the U.S. Government fiscal year in which the violation occurs.
(f)
Not-for-profit.
For purposes of this part, a “not-for-profit” contractor, subcontractor, or supplier is one for which no part of the net earnings of the contractor, subcontractor, or supplier inures to the benefit of any natural person or for-profit artificial person.
[58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, as amended at 74 FR 11843, Mar. 20, 2009; 81 FR 94914, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 820.21
Investigations.
(a) The Director may initiate and conduct investigations and inspections relating to the scope, nature and extent of compliance by a person with the Act and the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements and take such action as he deems necessary and appropriate to the conduct of the investigation or inspection, including any action pursuant to § 820.8.
(b) Any person may request the Director to initiate an investigation or inspection pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. A request for an investigation or inspection shall set forth the subject matter or activity to be investigated or inspected as fully as possible and include supporting documentation and information. No particular forms or procedures are required.
(c) Any person who is requested to furnish documentary evidence, information or testimony in an investigation or during an inspection shall be informed, upon written request, of the general purpose of the investigation or inspection.
(d) Information or documents that are obtained during any investigation or inspection shall not be disclosed unless the Director directs or authorizes the public disclosure of the investigation. Upon such authorization, the information or documents are a matter of public record and disclosure is not precluded by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 and 10 CFR part 1004. A request for confidential treatment of information for purposes of the Freedom of Information Act shall not prevent disclosure by the Director if disclosure is determined to be in the public interest and otherwise permitted or required by law.
(e) During the course of an investigation or inspection any person may submit at any time any document, statement of facts or memorandum of law for the purpose of explaining the person's position or furnish information which the person considers relevant to a matter or activity under investigation or inspection.
(f) If facts disclosed by an investigation or inspection indicate that further action is unnecessary or unwarranted, the investigation may be closed without prejudice to further investigation or inspection by the Director at any time that circumstances so warrant.
(g) The Director may issue enforcement letters that communicate DOE's expectations with respect to any aspect of the requirements of DOE's Nuclear Safety Requirements, including identification and reporting of issues, corrective actions, and implementation of DOE's Nuclear Safety Requirements, provided that an enforcement letter may not create the basis for any legally enforceable requirement pursuant to this part.
(h) The Director may sign, issue and serve subpoenas.
[58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, as amended at 72 FR 31921, June 8, 2007]
§ 820.22
Informal conference.
The Director may convene an informal conference to discuss any situation that might be a violation of the Act or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, its significance and cause, any correction taken or not taken by the person, any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, and any other useful information. The Director may compel a person to attend the conference. This conference will not normally be open to the public and there shall be no transcript.
§ 820.23
Consent order.
(a)
Settlement policy.
DOE encourages settlement of an enforcement proceeding at any time if the settlement is consistent with the objectives of the Act and the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. The Director and a person may confer at any time concerning settlement. These settlement conferences shall not be open to the public and there shall be no transcript.
(b)
Consent order.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, DOE may at any time resolve any or all issues in an outstanding enforcement proceeding with a Consent Order. A Consent Order must be signed by the Director and the person who is its subject, or a duly authorized representative, must indicate agreement to the terms contained therein and must be filed. A Consent Order need not constitute an admission by any person that the Act or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement has been violated, nor need it constitute a finding by the DOE that such person has violated the Act or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement. A Consent Order shall, however, set forth the relevant facts which form the basis for the Order and what remedy, if any, is imposed.
(c)
Effect on enforcement adjudication.
If a Consent Order is signed after the commencement of an enforcement adjudication, the adjudication of the issues subject to the Consent Order shall be stayed until the completion of the Secretarial Review Process. If the Consent Order becomes a Final Order, the adjudication shall be terminated or modified as specified in the Order.
(d)
Secretarial review.
A Consent Order shall become a Final Order 30 days
after it is filed unless the Secretary files a rejection of the Consent Order or a Modified Consent Order. A Modified Consent Order shall become a Final Order if the Director and the person who is its subject sign it within 15 days of its filing.
§ 820.24
Preliminary notice of violation.
(a) If the Director has reason to believe a person has violated or is continuing to violate a provision of the Act or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, he may file a Preliminary Notice of Violation. The Notice and any transmittal documents shall contain sufficient information to fairly apprise the respondent of the facts and circumstances of the alleged violations and the basis of any proposed remedy, and to properly indicate what further actions are necessary by or available to respondent.
(b) Within 30 days after the filing of a Preliminary Notice of Violation, the respondent shall file a reply.
(c) The reply shall be in writing and signed by the person filing it. The reply shall contain a statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the situation that is the subject of the Notice. The reply shall state any facts, explanations and arguments which support a denial that a violation has occurred as alleged; demonstrate any extenuating circumstances or other reason why the proposed remedy should not be imposed or should be mitigated; and furnish full and complete answers to the questions set forth in the Notice. Copies of all relevant documents shall be submitted with the reply. The reply shall include a discussion of the relevant authorities which support the position asserted, including rulings, regulations, interpretations, and previous decisions issued by DOE.
(d) The respondent may terminate an enforcement action if the reply agrees to comply with the proposed remedy and waives any right to contest the Notice or the remedy. If a respondent elects this option, the Preliminary Notice of Violation shall be deemed a Final Order upon the filing of the reply.
§ 820.25
Final notice of violation.
(a)
General rule.
If, after reviewing the reply submitted by the respondent, the Director determines that a person violated or is continuing to violate a provision of the Act or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, he may file a Final Notice of Violation. The Final Notice shall concisely state the determined violation, any designated penalty, and further actions necessary by or available to respondent.
(b)
Effect of final notice.
(1) If a Final Notice of Violation does not contain a civil penalty, it shall be deemed filed as a Final Order 15 days after the Final Notice is filed unless the Secretary files a Final Order which modifies the Final Notice.
(2) If a Final Notice of Violation contains a civil penalty, the respondent must file within 30 days after the filing of the Final Notice:
(i) A waiver of further proceedings;
(ii) A request for an on-the-record adjudication; or
(iii) A notice of intent to seek judicial review.
(c)
Effect of waiver.
If a respondent waives further proceedings, the Final Notice of Violation shall be deemed a Final Order enforceable against the respondent. The respondent must pay any civil penalty set forth in the Notice of Violation within 60 days of the filing of waiver unless the Director grants additional time.
(d)
Effect of request.
If a respondent files a request for an on-the-record adjudication, then an enforcement adjudication commences.
(e)
Effect of notice of intent.
If a respondent files a Notice of Intent, the Final Notice of Violation shall be deemed a Final Order enforceable against the respondent.
(f)
Amendment.
The Director may amend the Final Notice of Violation at any time before an action takes place pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. An amendment shall add fifteen days to the time periods under paragraph (b) of this section.
(g)
Withdrawal.
The Director may withdraw the Final Notice of Violation, or any part thereof, at any time before an action under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 820.26
Enforcement adjudication.
If a respondent files a request for an on-the-record adjudication, an enforcement adjudication is initiated and the Docketing Clerk shall notify the Secretary who shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge to be the Presiding Officer.
§ 820.27
Answer.
(a)
General.
If a respondent files a request for an on-the-record adjudication pursuant to § 820.25, a written answer to the Final Notice of Violation shall be filed at the same time the request is filed.
(b)
Contents of the answer.
The answer shall clearly and directly admit, deny or explain each of the factual allegations contained in the Final Notice of Violation with regard to which respondent has any knowledge, information or belief. Where respondent has no knowledge, information or belief of a particular factual allegation and so states, the allegation is deemed denied. The answer shall also state the circumstance or argument that is alleged to constitute the grounds of defense and the facts that respondent intends to place at issue.
(c)
Failure to admit, deny, or explain.
Failure of respondent to admit, deny, or explain any material factual allegation contained in the Final Notice of Violation constitutes an admission of the allegation.
(d)
Amendment of the answer.
The respondent may amend the answer to the Final Notice of Violation upon motion granted by the Presiding Officer.
§ 820.28
Prehearing actions.
(a)
General.
The Presiding Officer shall establish a schedule for the adjudication and take such other actions as he determines appropriate to conduct the adjudication in a fair and expeditious manner.
(b)
Prehearing conference.
The Presiding Officer, at any time before a hearing begins, may direct the parties and their counsel, or other representatives, to appear at a conference before him to consider, as appropriate:
(1) The settlement of the case;
(2) The simplification of issues and stipulation of facts not in dispute;
(3) The necessity or desirability of amendments to pleadings;
(4) The exchange of exhibits;
(5) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses;
(6) Setting a time and place for the hearing; and
(7) Any other matters that may expedite the disposition of the proceeding.
(c)
Exchange of witness lists and documents.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Presiding Officer, at least five (5) days before any prehearing conference, each party shall make available to all other parties, as appropriate, the names of the expert and other witnesses it intends to call, together with a brief narrative summary of their expected testimony, and copies of all documents and exhibits that each party intends to introduce into evidence. Documents and exhibits shall be marked for identification as ordered by the Presiding Officer. Documents that have not been exchanged and witnesses whose names have not been exchanged shall not be introduced into evidence or allowed to testify without permission of the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer shall allow the parties reasonable opportunity to review new evidence.
(d)
Prehearing conference order.
The Presiding Officer shall prepare an order incorporating any action taken at the conference. The summary shall incorporate any written stipulations or agreements of the parties and all rulings and appropriate orders containing directions to the parties.
(e)
Alternative to prehearing conference.
If a prehearing conference is unnecessary or impracticable, the Presiding Officer, on motion or
sua sponte,
may direct the parties to make appropriate filings with him to accomplish any of the objectives set forth in this section.
(f)
Other discovery.
(1) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, further discovery under this section shall be permitted only upon determination by the Presiding Officer:
(i) That such discovery will not in any way unreasonably delay the proceeding;
(ii) That the information to be obtained is not otherwise obtainable; and
(iii) That such information has significant probative value.
(2) The Presiding Officer shall order depositions upon oral questions only upon a showing of good cause and upon a finding that:
(i) The information sought cannot be obtained by alternative methods; or
(ii) There is substantial reason to believe that relevant and probative evidence may otherwise not be preserved for presentation by a witness at the hearing.
(3) Any party to the proceeding desiring an order to take further discovery shall make a motion therefor. Such a motion shall set forth:
(i) The circumstances warranting the taking of the discovery;
(ii) The nature of the information expected to be discovered; and
(iii) The proposed time and place where it will be taken. If the Presiding Officer determines that the motion should be granted, he shall issue an order for the taking of such discovery together with the conditions and terms thereof.
(4) When the information sought to be obtained is within the control of one of the parties, failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this paragraph may lead to the inference that the information to be discovered would be adverse to the party from whom the information was sought, or the issuance of a default order under 820.38.
§ 820.29
Hearing.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided by this part or the Presiding Officer, a hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the Federal Rules of Evidence. The Presiding Officer shall have the discretion to admit all evidence that is not irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or otherwise unreliable or of little probative value, if he believes the evidence might facilitate the fair and expeditious resolution of the proceeding. But such evidence may be reasonably limited by the Presiding Officer in scope and length in order to permit prompt resolution of the proceeding. In the presentation, admission, disposition, and use of evidence, the Presiding Officer shall preserve the confidentiality of trade secrets and other commercial and financial information, and shall protect classified and unclassified controlled nuclear information, as well as any other information protected from public disclosure pursuant to law or regulation. The confidential, trade secret, or classified or otherwise protected status of any information shall not, however, preclude its being introduced into evidence. The Presiding Officer may make such orders as may be necessary to consider such evidence in camera, including the preparation of a supplemental initial decision to address questions of law, fact, or discretion that arise out of that portion of the evidence that is confidential, includes trade secrets, is classified, or is otherwise protected.
(b)
Subpoenas.
The attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary evidence may be required by subpoena.
(c)
Examination of witnesses.
There shall be no direct oral testimony by witnesses, except as permitted by the Presiding Officer. In lieu of oral testimony, the Presiding Officer shall admit into the record as evidence verified written statements of fact or opinion prepared by a witness. The admissibility of the evidence contained in the statement shall be subject to the same rules as if the testimony were produced under oral examination. Before any such statement is read or admitted into evidence, the witness shall have delivered a copy of the statement to the Presiding Officer and the opposing counsel not less than 10 days prior to the date the witness is scheduled to testify. The witness presenting the statement shall swear or affirm that the statement is true and accurate to the best of his knowledge, information, and belief and shall be subject to appropriate oral cross-examination upon the contents thereof provided such cross-examination is not unduly repetitious.
(d)
Burden of presentation; burden of persuasion.
The Director has the burden of going forward with and of proving that the violation occurred as set forth in the Notice of Violation and that the proposed civil penalty is appropriate. Following the establishment of a
prima facie
case, respondent shall have the burden of presenting and of going forward with any defense to the allegations set forth in the Notice of Violation. Each matter of controversy shall
be determined by the Presiding Officer upon a preponderance of the evidence.
§ 820.30
Post-hearing filings.
Within fifteen days after the filing of the transcript of the hearing, or within such longer time as may be fixed by the Presiding Officer, any party may file for the consideration of the Presiding Officer, proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a proposed order, together with briefs in support thereof. Reply briefs may be filed within ten days of the filing of briefs. All filings shall be in writing, shall be served upon all parties, and shall contain adequate references to the record and authorities relied on.
§ 820.31
Initial decision.
(a)
Initial Decision.
The Presiding Officer shall file an Initial Decision as soon as practicable after the period for filing reply briefs under 820.30 has expired. The Initial Decision shall contain findings of fact, conclusions regarding all material issues of law or discretion, as well as reasons therefor, any remedy and a proposed Final Order. A party may file comments on an Initial Decision within fifteen days of its filing.
(b)
Amount of civil penalty.
If the Presiding Officer determines that a violation has occurred and that a civil penalty is appropriate, the Initial Decision shall set forth the dollar amount of the civil penalty. If the Presiding Officer decides to assess a penalty different in amount from the penalty assessed in the Final Notice of Violation, the Initial Decision shall set forth the specific reasons for the increase or decrease.
§ 820.32
Final order.
(a)
Effect of Initial Decision.
The Initial Decision shall be deemed filed as a Final Order thirty days after the filing of the Initial Decision unless the Secretary files a Final Order that modifies the Initial Decision or the Secretary files a Notice of Review.
(b)
Notice of review.
If the Secretary files a Notice of Review, he shall file a Final Order as soon as practicable after completing his review. The Secretary may, at his discretion, order additional procedures, remand the matter or modify the remedy, including an increase or decrease in the amount of the civil penalty from the amount recommended to be assessed in the Initial Decision.
(c)
Payment of a civil penalty.
The respondent shall pay the full amount of any civil penalty assessed in the Final Order within thirty (30) days after the Final Order is filed unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
§ 820.33
Default order.
(a)
Default.
The Presiding Officer, upon motion by a party or the filing of a Notice of Intent to issue a Default Order
sua sponte,
may find a party to be in default if the party fails to comply with the provisions of this part or an order of the Presiding Officer. The alleged defaulting party shall have ten days to answer the motion or the Notice of Intent. No finding of default shall be made against the respondent unless the Director presents sufficient evidence to the Presiding Officer to establish a
prima facie
case against the respondent. Default by respondent constitutes, for purposes of the pending action only, an admission of all facts alleged in the Final Notice of Violation and a waiver of respondent's rights to an on-the-record adjudication of such factual allegations. Default by the Director shall result in an order to dismiss the Final Notice of Violation with prejudice.
(b)
Effect of default order.
When the Presiding Officer finds a default has occurred, he shall file a Default Order against the defaulting party. This order shall constitute an Initial Decision.
(c)
Contents of a default order.
A Default Order shall include findings of fact showing the grounds for the order, conclusions regarding all material issues of fact, law or discretion, and the remedy.
§ 820.34
Accelerated decision.
(a)
General.
The Presiding Officer, upon motion of any party or
sua sponte,
may at any time render an Accelerated Decision in favor of the Director or the respondent as to all or any part of the adjudication, without further hearing or upon such limited additional evidence, such as affidavits, as he may require, if no genuine issue of material fact exists and a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law, as to all or any part of the adjudication. In addition, the Presiding Officer, upon motion of the respondent, may render at any time an Accelerated Decision to dismiss an action without further hearing or upon such limited additional evidence as he requires, on the basis of failure to establish a
prima facie
case or other grounds that show no right to relief on the part of the Director.
(b)
Effect of Accelerated Decision.
(1) If an Accelerated Decision is rendered as to all the issues and claims in the adjudication, the decision constitutes an Initial Decision of the Presiding Officer, and shall be filed with the Docketing Clerk.
(2) If an Accelerated Decision is rendered on less than all issues or claims in the adjudication, the Presiding Officer shall determine what material facts exist without substantial controversy and what material facts remain controverted in good faith. He shall thereupon file an interlocutory order specifying the facts that appear substantially uncontroverted, and the issues and claims upon which the adjudication will proceed.
§ 820.35
Ex parte
discussions.
At no time after a respondent has requested an on-the-record adjudication of the assessment of a civil penalty shall a DOE Official, or any person who is likely to advise a DOE Official in the decision on the case, discuss
ex parte
the merits of the proceeding with any interested person outside DOE, with any DOE staff member who performs a prosecutorial or investigative function in such proceeding or a factually related proceeding, or with any representative of such person. Any
ex parte
memorandum or other communication addressed to a DOE Official during the pendency of the proceeding and relating to the merits thereof, by or on behalf of any party shall be regarded as argument made in the proceeding and shall be served upon all other parties. Any oral communication shall be set forth in a written memorandum and served on all other parties. The other parties shall be given an opportunity to reply to such memorandum or communication.
§ 820.36
Filing, form, and service of documents.
(a)
Filing in an enforcement proceeding.
The original and three copies of any document in an enforcement proceeding shall be filed with the Docketing Clerk commencing with the filing of a Preliminary Notice of Violation.
(b)
Form of documents in an enforcement proceeding.
(1) Except as provided herein, or by order of the DOE Official, there are no specific requirements as to the form of documents filed in an enforcement proceeding.
(2) The first page of every document shall contain a caption identifying the respondent and the docket number.
(3) The original of any document (other than exhibits) shall be signed by the person filing it or by his counsel or other representative. The signature constitutes a representation by the signer that he has read the pleading, letter or other document, that to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, the statements made therein are true, and that it is not interposed for delay.
(4) The initial document filed by any person shall contain his name, address and telephone number. Any changes in this information shall be communicated promptly to the Docketing Clerk and all participants to the proceeding. A person who fails to furnish such information and any changes thereto shall be deemed to have waived his right to notice and service under this part.
(5) The Docketing Clerk may refuse to file any document that does not comply with this section. Written notice of such refusal, stating the reasons therefor, shall be promptly given to the person submitting the document. Such person may amend and resubmit any document refused for filing.
§ 820.37
Participation in an adjudication.
(a)
Parties.
In an enforcement adjudication, the Director and the respondent shall be the only parties; provided that the Presiding Officer may permit a person to intervene as a party if the person demonstrates it could be liable in the event a civil penalty is assessed.
(b)
Appearances.
Any party to an enforcement adjudication may appear in
person or by counsel or other representative. A partner may appear on behalf of a partnership and an officer may appear on behalf of a corporation. Persons who appear as counsel or other representative must conform to the standards of conduct and ethics required of practitioners before the courts of the United States.
(c)
Amicus Curiae.
Persons not parties to an enforcement adjudication who wish to file briefs may so move. The motion shall identify the interest of the person and shall state the reasons why the proposed amicus brief is desirable. If the motion is granted, the Presiding Officer shall issue an order setting the time for filing such brief. An
amicus curiae
is eligible to participate in any briefing after his motion is granted, and shall be served with all briefs, reply briefs, motions, and orders relating to issues to be briefed.
§ 820.38
Consolidation and severance.
(a)
Consolidation.
The Presiding Officer may, by motion or
sua sponte,
consolidate any or all matters at issue in two or more enforcement adjudications under this part where there exists common parties or common questions of fact or law, consolidation would expedite and simplify consideration of the issues, and consolidation would not adversely affect the rights of parties engaged in otherwise separate adjudications.
(b)
Severance.
The Presiding Officer may, by motion or
sua sponte,
for good cause shown order any enforcement adjudication severed with respect to any or all parties or issues.
§ 820.39
Motions.
(a)
General.
All motions in an enforcement adjudication except those made orally, shall be in writing, state the grounds therefor with particularity, set forth the relief or order sought, and be accompanied by any affidavit, certificate, other evidence, or legal memorandum relied upon.
(b)
Answer to motions.
Except as otherwise specified by a particular provision of this part or by the Presiding Officer, a party shall have the right to file a written answer to the motion of another party within 10 days after the filing of such motion. The answer shall be accompanied by any affidavit, certificate, other evidence, or legal memorandum relied upon. If no answer is filed within the designated period, the party may be deemed to have waived any objection to the granting of the motion. The Presiding Officer may set a shorter or longer time for an answer, or make such other orders concerning the disposition of motions as he deems appropriate.
(c)
Decision.
The Presiding Officer shall rule on a motion as soon as practicable after the filing of the answer. The decision of the Presiding Officer on any motion shall not be subject to administrative appeal.

# Subpart C—Compliance Orders
§ 820.40
Purpose and scope.
This subpart provides for the issuance of Compliance Orders to prevent, rectify or penalize violations of the Act, a Nuclear Statute, or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement and to require action consistent with the Act, a Nuclear Statute, or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement.
§ 820.41
Compliance order.
The Secretary may issue to any person involved in a DOE nuclear activity a Compliance Order that:
(a) Identifies a situation that violates, potentially violates, or otherwise is inconsistent with the Act, a Nuclear Statute, or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement;
(b) Mandates a remedy or other action; and,
(c) States the reasons for the remedy or other action.
§ 820.42
Final order.
A Compliance Order is a Final Order that constitutes a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement that is effective immediately unless the Order specifies a different effective date.
§ 820.43
Appeal.
Within fifteen days of the issuance of a Compliance Order, the recipient of the Order may request the Secretary to rescind or modify the Order. A request shall not stay the effectiveness of a Compliance Order unless the Secretary issues an order to that effect.

# Subpart D—Interpretations
§ 820.50
Purpose and scope.
This subpart provides for interpretations of the Act, Nuclear Statutes, and DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. Any written or oral response to any written or oral question which is not provided pursuant to this subpart does not constitute an interpretation and does not provide any basis for action inconsistent with the Act, a Nuclear Statute, or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement.
§ 820.51
General Counsel.
The General Counsel shall be the DOE Official responsible for formulating and issuing any interpretation concerning the Act, a Nuclear Statute or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement.
§ 820.52
Procedures.
The General Counsel may utilize any procedure which he deems appropriate to comply with his responsibilities under this subpart. All interpretations issued under this subpart must be filed with the Office of the Docketing Clerk which shall maintain a docket for interpretations.

# Subpart E—Exemption Relief
§ 820.60
Purpose and scope.
This subpart provides for exemption relief from provisions of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements at nuclear facilities.
§ 820.61
Secretarial officer.
The Secretarial Officer who is primarily responsible for the activity to which a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement relates may grant a temporary or permanent exemption from that requirement as requested by any person subject to its provisions; provided that, the Secretarial Officer responsible for environment, safety and health matters shall exercise this authority with respect to provisions relating to radiological protection of workers, the public and the environment. This authority may not be further delegated.
§ 820.62
Criteria.
The criteria for granting an exemption to a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement are determinations that the exemption:
(a) Would be authorized by law;
(b) Would not present an undue risk to public health and safety, the environment, or facility workers;
(c) Would be consistent with the safe operation of a DOE nuclear facility; and
(d) Involves special circumstances, including the following:
(1) Application of the requirement in the particular circumstances conflicts with other requirements; or
(2) Application of the requirement in the particular circumstances would not serve or is not necessary to achieve its underlying purpose, or would result in resource impacts which are not justified by the safety improvements; or
(3) Application of the requirement would result in a situation significantly different than that contemplated when the requirement was adopted, or that is significantly different from that encountered by others similarly situated; or
(4) The exemption would result in benefit to human health and safety that compensates for any detriment that may result from the grant of the exemption; or
(5) Circumstances exist which would justify temporary relief from application of the requirement while taking good faith action to achieve compliance; or
(6) There is present any other material circumstance not considered when the requirement was adopted for which it would be in the public interest to grant an exemption.
§ 820.63
Procedures.
The Secretarial Officer shall utilize any procedures deemed necessary and appropriate to comply with his responsibilities under this subpart. All exemption decisions must set forth in writing the reasons for granting or denying the exemption, and if granted, the basis for the determination that the criteria in § 820.62 have been met and the terms of the exemption. All exemption decisions must be filed with the Office of the Docketing Clerk
which shall maintain a docket for exemption decisions issued pursuant to this subpart.
§ 820.64
Terms and conditions.
An exemption may contain appropriate terms and conditions including, but not limited to, provisions that :
(a) Limit its duration;
(b) Require alternative action;
(c) Require partial compliance; or
(d) Establish a schedule for full or partial compliance.
§ 820.65
Implementation plan.
With respect to a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement for which there is no regulatory provision for an implementation plan or schedule, an exemption may be granted to establish an implementation plan which reasonably demonstrates that full compliance with the requirement will be achieved within two years of the effective date of the requirement without a determination of special circumstances under § 820.62(d).
§ 820.66
Appeal.
Within fifteen (15) days of the filing of an exemption decision by a Secretarial Officer, the person requesting the exemption may file a Request to Review with the Secretary, or the Secretary may file,
sua sponte,
a Notice of Review. The Request to Review shall state specifically the respects in which the exemption determination is claimed to be erroneous, the grounds of the request, and the relief requested.
§ 820.67
Final order.
If no filing is made under § 820.66, an exemption decision becomes a Final Order fifteen (15) days after it is filed by a Secretarial Officer. If filing is made under § 820.66, an exemption decision becomes a Final Order 45 days after it is filed by a Secretarial Officer, unless the Secretary stays the effective date or issues a Final Order that modifies the decision.

# Subpart F—Criminal Penalties
§ 820.70
Purpose and scope.
This subpart provides for the identification of criminal violations of the Act or DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements and the referral of such violations to the Department of Justice.
§ 820.71
Standard.
If a person subject to the Act or the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements has, by act or omission, knowingly and willfully violated, caused to be violated, attempted to violate, or conspired to violate any section of the Act or any applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, the person shall be subject to criminal sanctions under the Act.
§ 820.72
Referral to the Attorney General.
If there is reason to believe a criminal violation of the Act or the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements has occurred, DOE may refer the matter to the Attorney General of the United States for investigation or prosecution.

# Subpart G—Civil Penalties

# Source:
62 FR 46184, Sept. 2, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 820.80
Basis and purpose.
This subpart implements the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (the Act) (Pub. L. 101-410), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, section 31001) and the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74, section 701). 28 U.S.C. 2461 note. As amended, the Act requires each agency head to adjust by regulation each civil monetary penalty provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Federal agency by the inflation adjustment specified in 28 U.S.C. 2461 note. This subpart increases the civil penalty amount specified in 42 U.S.C. 2282a.
[62 FR 46184, Sept. 2, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 41794, June 28, 2016]
§ 820.81
Amount of penalty.
Any person subject to a penalty under 42 U.S.C. 2282a shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $262,614 for each such violation. If any violation under 42 U.S.C. 2282a is a
continuing one, each day of such violation shall constitute a separate violation for the purpose of computing the applicable civil penalty.
[62 FR 46184, Sept. 2, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 66033, Dec. 14, 2009; 79 FR 19, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 41794, June 28, 2016; 81 FR 96352, Dec. 30, 2016; 83 FR 1292, Jan. 11, 2018; 83 FR 66083, Dec. 26, 2018; 85 FR 830, Jan. 8, 2020; 86 FR 2956, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 1064, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 2193, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1029, Jan. 9, 2024; 89 FR 105407, Dec. 27, 2024]
Pt. 820, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 820—General Statement of Enforcement Policy

# I. Introduction
(a) This policy statement sets forth the general framework through which the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) will seek to ensure compliance with its enforceable nuclear safety regulations and orders (hereafter collectively referred to as DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements) and, in particular, exercise the civil penalty authority provided to DOE in the Price Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, 42 U.S.C. 2282a (PAAA). The policy set forth herein is applicable to violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements by DOE contractors who are indemnified under the Price Anderson Act, 42 U.S.C. 2210(d), and their subcontractors and suppliers (hereafter collectively referred to as DOE contractors). This policy statement is not a regulation and is intended only to provide general guidance to those persons subject to DOE's Nuclear Safety Requirements as specified in the PAAA. It is not intended to establish a “cookbook” approach to the initiation and resolution of situations involving noncompliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. Rather, DOE intends to consider the particular facts of each noncompliance situation in determining whether enforcement sanctions are appropriate and, if so, the appropriate magnitude of those sanctions. DOE may well deviate from this policy statement when appropriate in the circumstances of particular cases. This policy statement is not applicable to activities and facilities covered under E.O. 12344, 42 U.S.C. 7158 note, pertaining to Naval nuclear propulsion.
(b) Both the Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 7101, and the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2011, require DOE to protect the public health and safety, as well as the safety of workers at DOE facilities, in conducting its nuclear activities, and grant DOE broad authority to achieve this goal.
(c) The DOE goal in the compliance arena is to enhance and protect the radiological health and safety of the public and worker at DOE facilities by fostering a culture among both the DOE line organizations and the contractors that activity seeks to attain and sustain compliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. The enforcement program and policy have been developed with the express purpose of achieving safety inquisitiveness and voluntary compliance. DOE will establish effective administrative processes and positive incentives to the contractors for the open and prompt identification and reporting of noncompliances, and the initiation of comprehensive corrective actions to resolve both the noncompliance conditions and the program or process deficiencies that led to noncompliance.
(d) In the development of the DOE enforcement policy, DOE recognizes that the reasonable exercise of its enforcement authority can help to reduce the likelihood of serious incidents. This can be accomplished by providing greater emphasis on a culture of safety in existing DOE operations, and strong incentives for contractors to identify and correct noncompliance conditions and processes in order to protect human health and the environment. DOE wants to facilitate, encourage, and support contractor initiatives for the prompt identification and correction of problems. These initiatives and activities will be duly considered in exercising enforcement discretion.
(e) The PAAA provides DOE with the authority to compromise, modify, or remit civil penalties with or without conditions. In implementing the PAAA, DOE will carefully consider the facts of each case of noncompliance and will exercise appropriate discretion in taking any enforcement action. Part of the function of a sound enforcement program is to assure a proper and continuing level of safety vigilance. The reasonable exercise of enforcement authority will be facilitated by the appropriate application of safety requirements to nuclear facilities and by promoting and coordinating the proper contractor and DOE safety compliance attitude toward those requirements.

# II. Purpose
The purpose of the DOE enforcement program is to promote and protect the radiological health and safety of the public and workers at DOE facilities by:
a. Ensuring compliance by DOE contractors with applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements.
b. Providing positive incentives for a DOE contractor's:
(1) Timely self-identification of nuclear safety deficiencies,
(2) Prompt and complete reporting of such deficiencies to DOE,
(3) Root cause analyses of nuclear safety deficiencies,
(4) Prompt correction of nuclear safety deficiencies in a manner which precludes recurrence, and
(5) Identification of modifications in practices or facilities that can improve public or worker radiological health and safety.
c. Deterring future violations of DOE requirements by a DOE contractor.
d. Encouraging the continuous overall improvement of operations at DOE nuclear facilities.

# III. Statutory Authority
Section 17 of the PAAA makes most DOE contractors covered by the DOE Price-Anderson indemnification system, and their subcontractors and suppliers, subject to civil penalties for violations of applicable DOE nuclear safety rules, regulations and orders. 42 U.S.C. 2282a. Furthermore, section 18 of the PAAA makes all employees of DOE contractors, and their subcontractors and suppliers, subject to criminal penalties, including monetary penalties and imprisonment, for knowing and willful violations of applicable DOE nuclear safety rules, regulations and orders. 42 U.S.C. 2273(c). Suspected, or alleged, criminal violations are referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action. 42 U.S.C. 2271. Therefore, DOE's enforcement authority and policy will apply only to civil penalties since decisions on criminal violations are the responsibility of the Department of Justice. However, referral of a case to the Department of Justice does not preclude DOE from taking civil enforcement action in accordance with this policy statement. Such actions will be coordinated with the Department of Justice to the extent practicable.

# IV. Responsibilities
(a) The Director, as the principal enforcement officer of DOE, has been delegated the authority to:
(1) Conduct enforcement inspections, investigations, and conferences;
(2) Issue Notices of Violations and proposed civil penalties, Enforcement Letters, Consent Orders, and subpoenas; and
(3) Issue orders to compel attendance and disclosure of information or documents obtained during an investigation or inspection.
(b) The NNSA Administrator, pursuant to section 3212 (b)(9) of Public Law 106-65 (codified at 50 U.S.C. 2402 (b)(9)), as amended, has authority over and responsibility for environment, safety and health operations within NNSA and is authorized to sign, issue and serve the following actions that direct NNSA contractors:
(1) Subpoenas;
(2) Orders to compel attendance;
(3) Disclosure of information or documents obtained during an investigation or inspection;
(4) Preliminary Notices of Violations; and
(5) Final Notices of Violations.
The NNSA Administrator acts after consideration of the Director's recommendation.

# V. Procedural Framework
(a) 10 CFR part 820 sets forth the procedures DOE will use in exercising its enforcement authority, including the issuance of Notices of Violation and the resolution of contested enforcement actions in the event a DOE contractor elects to litigate contested issues before an Administrative Law Judge.
(b) Pursuant to 10 CFR 820.22, the Director initiates the civil penalty process by issuing a Preliminary Notice of Violation and Proposed Civil Penalty (PNOV). The DOE contractor is required to respond in writing to the PNOV, either admitting the violation and waiving its right to contest the proposed civil penalty and paying it, admitting the violation but asserting the existence of mitigating circumstances that warrant either the total or partial remission of the civil penalty, or denying that the violation has occurred and providing the basis for its belief that the PNOV is incorrect. After evaluation of the DOE contractor's response, the Director of Enforcement may determine that no violation has occurred, that the violation occurred as alleged in the PNOV but that the proposed civil penalty should be remitted in whole or in part, or that the violation occurred as alleged in the PNOV and that the proposed civil penalty is appropriate notwithstanding the asserted mitigating circumstances. In the latter two instances, the Director will issue a Final Notice of Violation (FNOV) or an FNOV and Proposed Civil Penalty.
(c) An opportunity to challenge a proposed civil penalty either before an Administrative Law Judge or in a United States District Court is provided in the PAAA, 42 U.S.C. 2282a(c), and 10 CFR part 820 sets forth the procedures associated with an administrative hearing, should the contractor opt for that method of challenging the proposed civil penalty. A formal administrative enforcement proceeding pursuant to section 554 of the Administrative Procedures Act is not initiated until the DOE contractor against which a civil penalty has been proposed requests an administrative hearing rather than waiving its right to contest the civil penalty and paying it. However, it should be emphasized that DOE encourages the voluntary resolution of a noncompliance situation at any time, either informally prior to the initiation of an administrative proceeding or by consent order after a formal proceeding has begun.

# VI. Severity of Violations
(a) Violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements have varying degrees of safety significance. Therefore, the relative importance of each violation must be identified as
the first step in the enforcement process. Violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements are categorized in three levels of severity to identify their relative safety significance, and Notices of Violation are issued for noncompliance which, when appropriate, propose civil penalties commensurate with the severity level of the violation(s) involved.
(b) Severity Level I has been assigned to violations that are the most significant and Severity Level III violations are the least significant. Severity Level I is reserved for violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements which involve actual or high potential for adverse impact on the safety of the public or workers at DOE facilities. Severity level II violations represent a significant lack of attention or carelessness toward responsibilities of DOE contractors for the protection of public or worker safety which could, if uncorrected, potentially lead to an adverse impact on public or worker safety at DOE facilities. Severity Level III violations are less serious but are of more than minor concern: i.e., if left uncorrected, they could lead to a more serious concern. In some cases, violations may be evaluated in the aggregate and a single severity level assigned for a group of violations.
(c) Isolated minor violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements will not be the subject of formal enforcement action through the issuance of a Notice of Violation. However, these minor violations will be identified as noncompliances and tracked to assure that appropriate corrective/remedial action is taken to prevent their recurrence, and evaluated to determine if generic or specific problems exist. If circumstances demonstrate that a number of related minor noncompliances have occurred in the same time frame (e.g. all identified during the same assessment), or that related minor noncompliances have recurred despite prior notice to the DOE contractor and sufficient opportunity to correct the problem, DOE may choose in its discretion to consider the noncompliances in the aggregate as a more serious violation warranting a Severity Level III designation, a Notice of Violation and a possible civil penalty.
(d) The severity level of a violation will be dependent, in part, on the degree of culpability of the DOE contractor with regard to the violation. Thus, inadvertent or negligent violations will be viewed differently than those in which there is gross negligence, deception or wilfulness. In addition to the significance of the underlying violation and level of culpability involved, DOE will also consider the position, training and experience of the person involved in the violation. Thus, for example, a violation may be deemed to be more significant if a senior manager of an organization is involved rather than a foreman or non-supervisory employee. In this regard, while management involvement, direct or indirect, in a violation may lead to an increase in the severity level of a violation and proposed civil penalty, the lack of such involvement will not constitute grounds to reduce the severity level of a violation or mitigate a civil penalty. Allowance of mitigation in such circumstances could encourage lack of management involvement in DOE contractor activities and a decrease in protection of public and worker health and safety.
(e) Other factors which will be considered by DOE in determining the appropriate severity level of a violation are the duration of the violation, the past performance of the DOE contractor in the particular activity area involved, whether the DOE contractor had prior notice of a potential problem, and whether there are multiple examples of the violation in the same time frame rather than an isolated occurrence. The relative weight given to each of these factors in arriving at the appropriate severity level will be dependent on the circumstances of each case.
(f) DOE expects contractors to provide full, complete, timely, and accurate information and reports. Accordingly, the severity level of a violation involving either failure to make a required report or notification to the DOE or an untimely report or notification, will be based upon the significance of, and the circumstances surrounding, the matter that should have been reported. A contractor will not normally be cited for a failure to report a condition or event unless the contractor was actually aware, or should have been aware of the condition or event which it failed to report.

# VII. Enforcement Conferences
(a) Should DOE determine, after completion of all assessment and investigation activities associated with a potential or alleged violation of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, that there is a reasonable basis to believe that a violation has actually occurred, and the violation may warrant a civil penalty or issuance of an enforcement order, DOE will normally hold an enforcement conference with the DOE contractor involved prior to taking enforcement action. DOE may also elect to hold an enforcement conference for potential violations which would not ordinarily warrant a civil penalty or enforcement order but which could, if repeated, lead to such action. The purpose of the enforcement conference is to assure the accuracy of the facts upon which the preliminary determination to consider enforcement action is based, discuss the potential or alleged violations, their significance and causes, and the nature of and schedule for the DOE contractor's corrective actions, determine
whether there are any aggravating or mitigating circumstances, and obtain other information which will help determine the appropriate enforcement action.
(b) DOE contractors will be informed prior to a meeting when that meeting is considered to be an enforcement conference. Such conferences are informal mechanisms for candid pre-decisional discussions regarding potential or alleged violations and will not normally be open to the public. In circumstances for which immediate enforcement action is necessary in the interest of public or worker health and safety, such action will be taken prior to the enforcement conference, which may still be held after the necessary DOE action has been taken.

# VIII. Enforcement Letter
(a) In cases where DOE has decided not to conduct an investigation or inspection or issue a Preliminary Notice of Violation(PNOV), DOE may send an Enforcement Letter to the contractor, signed by the Director. Enforcement Letters issued to NNSA contractors will be coordinated with the Principal Deputy Administrator of the NNSAprior to issuance. The Enforcement Letter isintended to communicate the basis of the decision not to pursue enforcement action for a noncompliance. The Enforcement Letter isintended to inform contractors of the desired level of nuclear safety performance. It may be used when DOE concludes the specific noncompliance at issue is not of the level of significance warranted to conduct an investigation or inspection or for issuance of a PNOV. Even where a noncompliance may be significant, the Enforcement Letter recognizes that the contractor's actions may have attenuated the need for enforcement action. The Enforcement Letter will typically recognize how the contractor handled the circumstances surrounding the noncompliance, address additional areas requiring the contractor's attention, and address DOE's expectations for corrective action.
(b) In general, Enforcement Letters communicate DOE's expectations with respect to any aspect of the requirements contained in the Department's nuclear safety rules, including identification and reporting of issues, corrective actions, and implementation of the contractor's nuclear safety program. DOE might, for example, wish to recognize some action of the contractor that is of particular benefit to nuclear safety performance that is a candidate for emulation by other contractors. On the other hand, DOE may wish to bring a program shortcoming to the attention of the contractor that, but for the lack of nuclear safety significance of the immediate issue, might have resulted in the issuance of a PNOV. An Enforcement Letter is not an enforcement action.
(c) With respect to many noncompliances, DOE may decide not to send an Enforcement Letter. When DOE decides that a contractor has appropriately corrected a noncompliance or that the significance of the noncompliance is sufficiently low, it may close out its review simply through an annotation in the DOE Noncompliance Tracking System (NTS). A closeout of a noncompliance with or without an Enforcement Letter may only take place after DOE has confirmed that corrective actions have been completed. Closeout of any NNSA contractor noncompliance will be coordinated with NNSA prior to closeout.

# IX. Enforcement Actions
a. This section describes the enforcement sanctions available to DOE and specifies the conditions under which each may be used. The basic sanctions are Notices of Violation and civil penalties. In determining whether to impose enforcement sanctions, DOE will consider enforcement actions taken by other Federal or State regulatory bodies having concurrent jurisdiction, e.g., instances which involve NRC licensed entities which are also DOE contractors, and in which the NRC exercises its own enforcement authority.
b. The nature and extent of the enforcement action is intended to reflect the seriousness of the violation involved. For the vast majority of violations for which DOE assigns severity levels as described previously, a Notice of Violation will be issued, requiring a formal response from the recipient describing the nature of and schedule for corrective actions it intends to take regarding the violation. Administrative actions, such as determination of award fees where DOE contracts provide for such determinations, will be considered separately from any civil penalties that may be imposed under this Enforcement Policy. Likewise, imposition of a civil penalty will be based on the circumstances of each case, unaffected by any award fee determination.

# 1. Notice of Violation
a. A Notice of Violation (either a Preliminary or Final Notice) is a document setting forth the conclusion of the DOE Office of Nuclear Safety and Environment that one or more violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements has occurred. Such a notice normally requires the recipient to provide a written response which may take one of several positions described in Section V of this policy statement. In the event that the recipient concedes the occurrence of the violation, it is required to describe corrective steps which have been taken and the results achieved; remedial actions which will be
taken to prevent recurrence; and the date by which full compliance will be achieved.
b. DOE will use the Notice of Violation as the standard method for formalizing the existence of a violation and, in appropriate cases as described in this section, the notice of violation will be issued in conjunction with the proposed imposition of a civil penalty. In certain limited instances, as described in this section, DOE may refrain from the issuance of an otherwise appropriate Notice of Violation. However, a Notice of Violation will virtually always be issued for willful violations, if past corrective actions for similar violations have not been sufficient to prevent recurrence and there are no other mitigating circumstances, or if the circumstances otherwise warrant increasing Severity Level III violations to a higher severity level.
c. DOE contractors are not ordinarily cited for violations resulting from matters not within their control, such as equipment failures that were not avoidable by reasonable quality assurance measures, proper maintenance, or management controls. With regard to the issue of funding, however, DOE does not consider an asserted lack of funding to be a justification for noncompliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements.
Should a contractor believe that a shortage of funding precludes it from achieving compliance with one or more DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, it must pursue one of two alternative courses of action. First, it may request, in writing, an exemption from the requirement(s) in question from the appropriate Secretarial Officer (SO), explicitly addressing the criteria for exemptions set forth in 10 CFR 820.62. A justification for continued operation for the period during which the exemption request is being considered should also be submitted. In such a case, the SO must grant or deny the request in writing, explaining the rationale for the decision. Second, if the criteria for approval of an exemption cannot be demonstrated, the contractor, in conjunction with the SO, must take appropriate steps to modify, curtail, suspend or cease the activities which cannot be conducted in compliance with the DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement(s) in question.
d. DOE expects the contractors which operate its facilities to have the proper management and supervisory systems in place to assure that all activities at DOE facilities, regardless of who performs them, are carried out in compliance with all DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. Therefore, contractors are normally held responsible for the acts of their employees and subcontractor employees in the conduct of activities at DOE facilities. Accordingly, this policy should not be construed to excuse personnel errors.
e. Finally, certain contractors are explicitly exempted from the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the PAAA, 42 U.S.C. 2282a(d), for activities conducted at specified facilities. See 10 CFR 820.20(c). In addition, in fairness to non-profit educational institutions, the Department has determined that they should be likewise exempted. See 10 CFR 820.20(d). However, compliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements is no less important for these facilities than for other facilities in the DOE complex which work with, store or dispose of radioactive materials. Indeed, the exempted contractors conduct some of the most important nuclear-related research and development activities performed for the Department. Therefore, in order to serve the purposes of this enforcement policy and to emphasize the importance the Department places on compliance with all of its nuclear safety requirements, DOE intends to issue Notices of Violation to the exempted contractors and non-profit educational institutions when appropriate under this policy statement, notwithstanding the statutory and regulatory exemptions from the imposition of civil penalties.

# 2. Civil Penalty
a. A civil penalty is a monetary penalty that may be imposed for violations of applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, including Compliance Orders. See 10 CFR 820.20(b). Civil penalties are designed to emphasize the need for lasting remedial action, deter future violations, and underscore the importance of DOE contractor self-identification, reporting and correction of violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements.
b. Absent mitigating circumstances as described below, or circumstances otherwise warranting the exercise of enforcement discretion by DOE as described in this section, civil penalties will be proposed for Severity Level I and II violations. Civil penalties will be proposed for Severity Level III violations which are similar to previous violations for which the contractor did not take effective corrective action. “Similar” violations are those which could reasonably have been expected to have been prevented by corrective action for the previous violation. DOE normally considers civil penalties only for similar Severity Level III violations that occur over a reasonable period of time to be determined at the discretion of DOE.
c. DOE will impose different base level civil penalties considering the severity level of the violation(s) by Price-Anderson indemnified contractors. Table 1 shows the daily base civil penalties for the various categories of severity levels. However, as described above in Section IV, the imposition of civil penalties will also take into account the gravity, circumstances, and extent of the violation or violations and, with respect to
the violator, any history of prior similar violations and the degree of culpability and knowledge.
d. Regarding the factor of ability of DOE contractors to pay the civil penalties, it is not DOE's intention that the economic impact of a civil penalty be such that it puts a DOE contractor out of business. Contract termination, rather than civil penalties, is used when the intent is to terminate these activities. The deterrent effect of civil penalties is best served when the amount of such penalties takes this factor into account. However, DOE will evaluate the relationship of affiliated entities to the contractor (such as parent corporations) when it asserts that it cannot pay the proposed penalty.
e. DOE will review each case involving a proposed civil penalty on its own merits and adjust the base civil penalty values upward or downward appropriately.As indicated above, Table 1 identifies the daily base civil penalty values for different severity levels.After considering all relevant circumstances, civil penalties may be escalated or mitigated based upon the adjustment factors described below in this section. In no instance will a civil penalty for any one violation exceed the statutory limit, as periodically adjusted for inflation as required by law. However, it should be emphasized that if the DOE contractor is or should have been aware of a violation and has not reported it to DOE and taken corrective action despite an opportunity to do so, each day the condition existed may be considered as a separate violation and, as such, subject to a separate civil penalty. Further, as described in this section, the duration of a violation will be taken into account in determining the appropriate severity level of the base civil penalty.
Table 1—Severity Level Base Civil Penalties
Severity level
Base civil penalty amount (percentage of maximum civil penalty per violation per day)
I
100
II
50
III
10

# 3. Adjustment Factors
a. DOE's enforcement program is not an end in itself, but a means to achieve compliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, and civil penalties are not collected to swell the coffers of the United States Treasury, but to emphasize the importance of compliance and to deter future violations. The single most important goal of the DOE enforcement program is to encourage early identification and reporting of nuclear safety deficiencies and violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements by the DOE contractors themselves rather than by DOE, and the prompt correction of any deficiencies and violations so identified. DOE believes that DOE contractors are in the best position to identify and promptly correct noncompliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. DOE expects that these contractors should have in place internal compliance programs which will ensure the detection, reporting and prompt correction of nuclear safety-related problems that may constitute, or lead to, violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements before, rather than after, DOE has identified such violations. Thus, DOE contractors will almost always be aware of nuclear safety problems before they are discovered by DOE. Obviously, public and worker health and safety is enhanced if deficiencies are discovered (and promptly corrected) by the DOE contractor, rather than by DOE, which may not otherwise become aware of a deficiency until later on, during the course of an inspection, performance assessment, or following an incident at the facility. Early identification of nuclear safety-related problems by DOE contractors has the added benefit of allowing information which could prevent such problems at other facilities in the DOE complex to be shared with all appropriate DOE contractors.
b. Pursuant to this enforcement philosophy, DOE will provide substantial incentive for the early self-identification, reporting and prompt correction of problems which constitute, or could lead to, violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. Thus, application of the adjustment factors set forth below may result in no civil penalty being assessed for violations that are identified, reported, and promptly and effectively corrected by the DOE contractor.
c. On the other hand, ineffective programs for problem identification and correction are unacceptable. Thus, for example, where a contractor fails to disclose and promptly correct violations of which it was aware or should have been aware, substantial civil penalties are warranted and may be sought, including the assessment of civil penalties for continuing violations on a per day basis.
d. Further, in cases involving willfulness, flagrant DOE-identified violations, repeated poor performance in an area of concern, or serious breakdown in management controls, DOE intends to apply its full statutory enforcement authority where such action is warranted.

# 4. Identification and Reporting
Reduction of up to 50% of the base civil penalty shown in Table 1 may be given when a DOE contractor identifies the violation and promptly reports the violation to the DOE. In weighing this factor, consideration will be given to, among other things, the opportunity available to discover the violation,
the ease of discovery and the promptness and completeness of any required report. No consideration will be given to a reduction in penalty if the DOE contractor does not take prompt action to report the problem to DOE upon discovery, or if the immediate actions necessary to restore compliance with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements or place the facility or operation in a safe configuration are not taken.

# 5. Self-Identification and Tracking Systems
a. DOE strongly encourages contractors to self-identify noncompliances with DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements before the noncompliances lead to a string of similar and potentially more significant events or consequences. When a contractor identifies a noncompliance through its own self-monitoring activity, DOE will normally allow a reduction in the amount of civil penalties, regardless of whether prior opportunities existed for contractors to identify the noncompliance. DOE will normally not allow a reduction in civil penalties for self-identification if significant DOE intervention was required to induce the contractor to report a noncompliance.
b. Self-identification of a noncompliance is possibly the single most important factor in considering a reduction in the civil penalty amount. Consideration of self-identification is linked to, among other things, whether prior opportunities existed to discover the violation, and if so, the age and number of such opportunities; the extent to which proper contractor controls should have identified or prevented the violation; whether discovery of the violation resulted from a contractor's self-monitoring activity; the extent of DOE involvement in discovering the violation or in prompting the contractor to identify the violation; and the promptness and completeness of any required report. Self-identification is also considered by DOE in deciding whether to pursue an investigation.
c. DOE has established a voluntary Noncompliance Tracking System (NTS) which allows contractors to elect to report noncompliances. In the guidance document supporting the NTS (DOE-HDBK-1089-95), DOE has established reporting thresholds for reporting items of noncompliance of potentially greater safety significance into the NTS. Contractors may, however, use their own self-tracking systems to track noncompliances below the reporting threshold. This self-tracking is considered to be acceptable self-reporting as long as DOE has access to the contractor's system and the contractor's system notes the item as a noncompliance with a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement. For noncompliances that are below the reportability thresholds, DOE will credit contractor self-tracking as representing self-reporting. If an item is not reported in NTS but only tracked in the contractor's system and DOE subsequently finds the facts and their safety significance have been significantly mischaracterized, DOE will not credit the internal tracking as representing appropriate self-reporting.

# 6. Self-Disclosing Events
a. DOE expects contractors to demonstrate acceptance of responsibility for safety of the public, workers, and the environment and to proactively identify noncompliance conditions in their programs and processes. In deciding whether to reduce any civil penalty proposed for violations revealed by the occurrence of a self-disclosing event, DOE will consider the ease with which a contractor could have discovered the noncompliance and the prior opportunities that existed to discover the noncompliance. When the occurrence of an event discloses noncompliances that the contractor could have or should have identified before the event, DOE will not generally allow a reduction in civil penalties for self-identification, even if the underlying noncompliances were reported to DOE. If a contractor simply reacts to events that disclose potentially significant consequences or downplays noncompliances which did not result in significant consequences to workers, the public, and the environment, such contractor actions do not lead to the improvement in nuclear safety contemplated by the Act.
b. The key test is whether the contractor reasonably could have detected any of the underlying noncompliances that contributed to the event. Examples of events that provide opportunities to identify noncompliances include, but are not limited to:
(1) prior notifications of potential problems such as those from DOE operational experience publications or vendor equipment deficiency reports;
(2) normal surveillance, quality assurance assessments, and post-maintenance testing;
(3) readily observable parameter trends; and
(4) contractor employee or DOE observations of potential safety problems. Failure to utilize these types of events and activities to address noncompliances may result in higher civil penalty assessments or a DOE decision not to reduce civil penalty amounts.
c. For example, a critique of the event might find that one of the root causes was a lack of clarity in a Radiation Work Permit (RWP) which led to improper use of anti-contamination clothing and resulting uptake of contamination by the individual. DOE could subsequently conclude that no reduction in civil penalties for self-identification should be allowed since the event itself disclosed the inadequate RWP and the contractor
could have, through proper independent assessment or by fostering a questioning attitude by its workers and supervisors, identified the inadequate RWP before the event.
d. Alternatively, if, following a self-disclosing event, DOE found that the contractor's processes and procedures were adequate and the contractor's personnel generally behaved in a manner consistent with the contractor's processes and procedures, DOE could conclude that the contractor could not have been reasonably expected to find the single procedural noncompliance that led to the event and thus, might allow a reduction in civil penalties.

# 7. Corrective Action To Prevent Recurrence
The promptness (or lack thereof) and extent to which the DOE contractor takes corrective action, including actions to identify root cause and prevent recurrence, may result in up to a 50% increase or decrease in the base civil penalty shown in Table 1. For example, very extensive corrective action may result in reducing the proposed civil penalty as much as 50% of the base value shown in Table 1. On the other hand, the civil penalty may be increased as much as 50% of the base value if initiation or corrective action is not prompt or if the corrective action is only minimally acceptable. In weighing this factor, consideration will be given to, among other things, the appropriateness, timeliness and degree of initiative associated with the corrective action. The comprehensiveness of the corrective action will also be considered, taking into account factors such as whether the action is focused narrowly to the specific violation or broadly to the general area of concern.

# 8. DOE's Contribution to a Violation
There may be circumstances in which a violation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement results, in part or entirely, from a direction given by DOE personnel to a DOE contractor to either take, or forbear from taking an action at a DOE facility. In such cases, DOE may refrain from issuing an NOV, and may mitigate, either partially or entirely, any proposed civil penalty, provided that the direction upon which the DOE contractor relied is documented in writing, contemporaneously with the direction. It should be emphasized, however, that pursuant to 10 CFR 820.50, no interpretation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement is binding upon DOE unless issued in writing by the General Counsel. Further, as discussed in this section of this policy statement, lack of funding by itself will not be considered as a mitigating factor in enforcement actions.

# 9. Exercise of Discretion
Because DOE wants to encourage and support DOE contractor initiative for prompt self-identification, reporting and correction of problems, DOE may exercise discretion as follows:
a. In accordance with the previous discussion, DOE may refrain from issuing a civil penalty for a violation which meets all of the following criteria:
(1) The violation is promptly identified and reported to DOE before DOE learns of it.
(2) The violation is not willful or a violation that could reasonably be expected to have been prevented by the DOE contractor's corrective action for a previous violation.
(3) The DOE contractor, upon discovery of the violation, has taken or begun to take prompt and appropriate action to correct the violation.
(4) The DOE contractor has taken, or has agreed to take, remedial action satisfactory to DOE to preclude recurrence of the violation and the underlying conditions which caused it.
b. DOE may refrain from proposing a civil penalty for a violation involving a past problem, such as in engineering design or installation, that meets all of the following criteria:
(1) It was identified by a DOE contractor as a result of a formal effort such as a Safety System Functional Inspection, Design Reconstitution program, or other program that has a defined scope and timetable which is being aggressively implemented and reported;
(2) Comprehensive corrective action has been taken or is well underway within a reasonable time following identification; and
(3) It was not likely to be identified by routine contractor efforts such as normal surveillance or quality assurance activities.
c. DOE will not issue a Notice of Violation for cases in which the violation discovered by the DOE contractor cannot reasonably be linked to the conduct of that contractor in the design, construction or operation of the DOE facility involved, provided that prompt and appropriate action is taken by the DOE contractor upon identification of the past violation to report to DOE and remedy the problem.
d. DOE may refrain from issuing a Notice of Violation for an item of noncompliance that meets all of the following criteria:
(1) It was promptly identified by the DOE nuclear entity;
(2) It is normally classified at a Severity Level III;
(3) It was promptly reported to DOE;
(4) Prompt and appropriate corrective action will be taken, including measures to prevent recurrence; and
(5) It was not a willful violation or a violation that could reasonably be expected to have been prevented by the DOE contractor's corrective action for a previous violation.
e. DOE may refrain from issuing a Notice of Violation for an item of noncompliance that meets all of the following criteria:
(1) It was an isolated Severity Level III violation identified during a Tiger Team inspection conducted by the Office of Health, Safety and Security during an inspection or integrated performance assessment conducted by the Office of Nuclear Safety and Environment, or during some other DOE assessment activity.
(2) The identified noncompliance was properly reported by the contractor upon discovery.
(3) The contractor initiated or completed appropriate assessment and corrective actions within a reasonable period, usually before the termination of the onsite inspection or integrated performance assessment.
(4) The violation is not willful or one which could reasonably be expected to have been prevented by the DOE contractor's corrective action for a previous violation.
f. In situations where corrective actions have been completed before termination of an inspection or assessment, a formal response from the contractor is not required and the inspection or integrated performance assessment report serves to document the violation and the corrective action. However, in all instances, the contractor is required to report the noncompliance through established reporting mechanisms so the noncompliance issue and any corrective actions can be properly tracked and monitored.
g. If DOE initiates an enforcement action for a violation at a Severity Level II or III and, as part of the corrective action for that violation, the DOE contractor identifies other examples of the violation with the same root cause, DOE may refrain from initiating an additional enforcement action. In determining whether to exercise this discretion, DOE will consider whether the DOE contractor acted reasonably and in a timely manner appropriate to the safety significance of the initial violation, the comprehensiveness of the corrective action, whether the matter was reported, and whether the additional violation(s) substantially change the safety significance or character of the concern arising out of the initial violation.
h. It should be emphasized that the preceding paragraphs are solely intended to be examples indicating when enforcement discretion may be exercised to forego the issuance of a civil penalty or, in some cases, the initiation of any enforcement action at all. However, notwithstanding these examples, a civil penalty may be proposed or Notice of Violation issued when, in DOE's judgment, such action is warranted on the basis of the circumstances of an individual case.

# X. Procurement of Products or Services and the Reporting of Defects
(a) DOE's enforcement policy is also applicable to subcontractors and suppliers to DOE Price-Anderson indemnified contractors. Through procurement contracts with these DOE contractors, subcontractors and suppliers are generally required to have quality assurance programs that meet applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements. Suppliers of products or services provided in support of or for use in DOE facilities operated by Price-Anderson indemnified contractors are subject to certain requirements designed to ensure the high quality of the products or services supplied to DOE facilities that could, if deficient, adversely affect public or worker safety. DOE regulations require that DOE be notified whenever a DOE contractor obtains information reasonably indicating that a DOE facility (including its structures, systems and components) which conducts activities subject to the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended or DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements either fails to comply with any provision of the Atomic Energy Act or any applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, or contains a defect or has been supplied with a product or service which could create or result in a substantial safety hazard.
(b) DOE will conduct audits and assessments of its contractors to determine whether they are ensuring that subcontractors and suppliers are meeting their contractual obligations with regard to quality of products or services that could have an adverse effect on public or worker radiological safety, and ensure that DOE contractors have in place adequate programs to determine whether products or services supplied to them for DOE facilities meet applicable DOE requirements and that substandard products or services are not used by Price-Anderson indemnified contractors at the facilities they operate for DOE. As part of the effort of ensuring that contractual and regulatory requirements are met, DOE may also audit or assess subcontractors and suppliers. These assessments could include examination of the quality assurance programs and their implementation by the subcontractors and suppliers through examination of product quality.
(c) When audits or assessments determine that subcontractors or suppliers have failed to comply with applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements or to fulfill contractual commitments designed to ensure the quality of a safety significant product or service, enforcement action will be taken. Notices of Violations and civil penalties will be issued, as appropriate, for DOE contractor failures to ensure that their subcontractors and suppliers provide products and services that meet applicable DOE requirements. Notices of Violations and civil penalties will also be
issued to subcontractors and suppliers of DOE contractors which fail to comply with the reporting requirements set forth in any other applicable DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements.

# XI. Inaccurate and Incomplete Information
(a) A violation of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements for failure to provide complete and accurate information to DOE, 10 CFR 820.11, can result in the full range of enforcement sanctions, depending upon the circumstances of the particular case and consideration of the factors discussed in this section. Violations involving inaccurate or incomplete information or the failure to provide significant information identified by a DOE contractor normally will be categorized based on the guidance in section VI, “Severity of Violations”.
(b) DOE recognizes that oral information may in some situations be inherently less reliable than written submittals because of the absence of an opportunity for reflection and management review. However, DOE must be able to rely on oral communications from officials of DOE contractors concerning significant information. In determining whether to take enforcement action for an oral statement, consideration will be given to such factors as
(b)(1) The degree of knowledge that the communicator should have had regarding the matter in view of his or her position, training, and experience;
(b)(2) The opportunity and time available prior to the communication to assure the accuracy or completeness of the information;
(b)(3) The degree of intent or negligence, if any, involved;
(b)(4) The formality of the communication;
(b)(5) The reasonableness of DOE reliance on the information;
(b)(6) The importance of the information that was wrong or not provided; and
(b)(7) The reasonableness of the explanation for not providing complete and accurate information.
(c) Absent gross negligence or willfulness, an incomplete or inaccurate oral statement normally will not be subject to enforcement action unless it involves significant information provided by an official of a DOE contractor. However, enforcement action may be taken for an unintentionally incomplete or inaccurate oral statement provided to DOE by an official of a DOE contractor or others on behalf of the DOE contractor, if a record was made of the oral information and provided to the DOE contractor thereby permitting an opportunity to correct the oral information, such as if a transcript of the communication or meeting summary containing the error was made available to the DOE contractor and was not subsequently corrected in a timely manner.
(d) When a DOE contractor has corrected inaccurate or incomplete information, the decision to issue a citation for the initial inaccurate or incomplete information normally will be dependent on the circumstances, including the ease of detection of the error, the timeliness of the correction, whether DOE or the DOE contractor identified the problem with the communication, and whether DOE relied on the information prior to the correction. Generally, if the matter was promptly identified and corrected by the DOE contractor prior to reliance by DOE, or before DOE raised a question about the information, no enforcement action will be taken for the initial inaccurate or incomplete information. On the other hand, if the misinformation is identified after DOE relies on it, or after some question is raised regarding the accuracy of the information, then some enforcement action normally will be taken even if it is in fact corrected.
(e) If the initial submission was accurate when made but later turns out to be erroneous because of newly discovered information or advance in technology, a citation normally would not be appropriate if, when the new information became available, the initial submission was corrected.
(f) The failure to correct inaccurate or incomplete information that the DOE contractor does not identify as significant normally will not constitute a separate violation. However, the circumstances surrounding the failure to correct may be considered relevant to the determination of enforcement action for the initial inaccurate or incomplete statement. For example, an unintentionally inaccurate or incomplete submission may be treated as a more severe matter if a DOE contractor later determines that the initial submission was in error and does not correct it or if there were clear opportunities to identify the error.

# XII. Secretarial Notification and Consultation
The Secretary will be provided written notification of all enforcement actions involving proposed civil penalties. The Secretary will be consulted prior to taking action in the following situations:
a. Proposals to impose civil penalties in an amount equal to or greater than the statutory limit, as periodically adjusted for inflation as required by law;
b. Any proposed enforcement action that involves a Severity Level I violation;
c. Any action the Director believes warrants the Secretary's involvement; or
d. Any proposed enforcement action on which the Secretary asks to be consulted.

# XIII. Whistleblower Enforcement Policy
a. DOE contractors may not retaliate against any employee because the employee
has taken any actions listed in 10 CFR 708.5(a) through(c), including disclosing information, participating in proceedings, or refusing to participate in certain activities. DOE contractor employees may seek relief for allegations of retaliation through one of several mechanisms, including filing a complaint with DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 708 (part 708), the Department of Labor (DOL) under sec. 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act (sec. 211), implemented in 29 CFR part 24, or the DOE Inspector General (IG).
b. An act of retaliation by a DOE contractor, prohibited by 10 CFR 708.43, that results from a DOE contractor employee's involvement in an activity listed in 10 CFR 708.5(a) through (c), may constitute a violation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement under 10 CFR part 820 if it concerns nuclear safety. To avoid the potential for inconsistency with one of the mechanisms available to an aggrieved DOE contractor employee alleging retaliation referenced in section XIII.a, the Director will not take any action under this part with respect to an alleged violation of 10 CFR 708.43 until a request for relief under one of these mechanisms, if any, has been fully adjudicated, including appeals. With respect to an alleged retaliation, the Director will generally only take action that is consistent with the findings of a final decision of an agency or court. If a final decision finds that retaliation occurred, the Department will consider whether that retaliation constitutes a violation of § 708.43, and if so, whether to take action under part 820. If a final decision finds that no retaliation occurred, the Director will generally not take any action under part 820 with respect to the alleged retaliation absent significant new information that was not available in the prior proceeding. If a final decision dismisses a complaint on procedural grounds without explicitly finding that retaliation did not occur, the Director may take further action under part 820 that is not inconsistent with the final decision.
c. DOE encourages its contractors to cooperate in resolving whistleblower complaints raised by contractor employees in a prompt and equitable manner. Accordingly, in considering what remedy is appropriate for an act of retaliation concerning nuclear safety, the Director will take into account the extent to which a contractor cooperated in proceedings for remedial relief.
d. In considering what remedy is appropriate for an act of retaliation concerning nuclear safety, the Director will also consider the egregiousness of the particular case including the level of management involved in the alleged retaliation and the specificity of the acts of retaliation.
e. When the Director undertakes an investigation of an allegation of DOE contractor retaliation against an employee under part 820, the Director will apprise persons interviewed and interested parties that the investigative activity is being taken pursuant to the nuclear safety procedures of part 820 and not pursuant to the procedures of part 708.
[58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 52481, Oct. 8, 1997; 65 FR 15220, Mar. 22, 2000; 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 72 FR 31921, June 8, 2007; 81 FR 41794, June 28, 2016; 81 FR 94914, Dec. 27, 2016]
Pt. 824

# PART 824—PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION SECURITY VIOLATIONS
Sec.
824.1
Purpose and scope.
824.2
Applicability.
824.3
Definitions.
824.4
Civil penalties.
824.5
Investigations.
824.6
Preliminary notice of violation.
824.7
Final notice of violation.
824.8
Hearing.
824.9
Hearing Counsel.
824.10
Hearing Officer.
824.11
Rights of the person at the hearing.
824.12
Conduct of the hearing.
824.13
Initial decision.
824.14
Special procedures.
824.15
Collection of civil penalties.
824.16
Direction to NNSA contractors.
Appendix A to Part 824—General Statement of Enforcement Policy

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201, 2282b, 7101
et seq.,
50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.;
28 U.S.C. 2461 note.

# Source:
70 FR 3607, Jan. 26, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 824.1
Purpose and scope.
This part implements subsections a., c., and d. of section 234B. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (the Act), 42 U.S.C. 2282b. Subsection a. provides that any person who has entered into a contract or agreement with the Department of Energy, or a subcontract or subagreement thereto, and who violates (or whose employee violates) any applicable rule, regulations in this chapter, or order under the Act relating to the security or safeguarding of Restricted Data or other classified information, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $187,668 for each violation. Subsections c. and d. specify certain additional authorities and limitations
respecting the assessment of such penalties.
[70 FR 3607, Jan. 26, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 66033, Dec. 14, 2009; 79 FR 19, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 41795, June 28, 2016; 81 FR 96352, Dec. 30, 2016; 83 FR 1292, Jan. 11, 2018; 83 FR 66083, Dec. 26, 2018; 85 FR 830, Jan. 8, 2020; 86 FR 2956, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 1064, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 2193, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1029, Jan. 9, 2024; 89 FR 105407, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 824.2
Applicability.
(a)
General.
These regulations apply to any person that has entered into a contract or agreement with DOE, or a subcontract or sub-agreement thereto.
(b)
Limitations.
DOE may not assess any civil penalty against any entity (including subcontractors and suppliers thereto) specified at subsection d. of section 234A of the Act until the entity enters, after October 5, 1999, into a new contract with DOE or an extension of a current contract with DOE, and the total amount of civil penalties may not exceed the total amount of fees paid by the DOE to that entity in that fiscal year.
(c)
Individual employees.
No civil penalty may be assessed against an individual employee of a contractor or any other entity which enters into an agreement with DOE.
[70 FR 3607, Jan. 26, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 2005]
§ 824.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
).
Administrator
means the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration.
Classified information
means Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data protected against unauthorized disclosure pursuant to the Act and National Security Information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12958, as amended March 25, 2003, or any predecessor or successor executive order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.
DOE
means the United States Department of Energy, including the National Nuclear Security Administration.
Director
means the DOE Official, or his or her designee, to whom the Secretary has assigned responsibility for enforcement of this part.
Person
means any person as defined in section 11.s. of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 2014, and includes any affiliate or parent corporation thereof, who enters into a contract or agreement with DOE, or is a party to a contract or subcontract under a contract or agreement with DOE.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Energy.
§ 824.4
Civil penalties.
(a) Any person who violates a classified information protection requirement of any of the following is subject to a civil penalty under this part:
(1) 10 CFR part 1016—Safeguarding of Restricted Data;
(2) 10 CFR part 1045—Nuclear Classification and Declassification; or
(3) Any other DOE regulation or rule (including any DOE order or manual enforceable against the contractor or subcontractor under a contractual provision in that contractor's or subcontractor's contract) related to the safeguarding or security of classified information if the regulation or rule provides that violation of its provisions may result in a civil penalty pursuant to subsection a. of section 234B. of the Act.
(b) If, without violating a classified information protection requirement of any regulation or rule under paragraph (a) of this section, a person by an act or omission causes, or creates a risk of, the loss, compromise or unauthorized disclosure of classified information, the Secretary may issue a compliance order to that person requiring the person to take corrective action and notifying the person that violation of the compliance order is subject to a notice of violation and assessment of a civil penalty. If a person wishes to contest the compliance order, the person must file a notice of appeal with the Secretary within 15 days of receipt of the compliance order.
(c) The Director may propose imposition of a civil penalty for violation of a requirement of a regulation or rule under paragraph (a) of this section or a
compliance order issued under paragraph (b) of this section, not to exceed $187,668 for each violation.
(d) If any violation is a continuing one, each day of such violation shall constitute a separate violation for the purpose of computing the applicable civil penalty.
(e) The Director may enter into a settlement, with or without conditions, of an enforcement proceeding at any time if the settlement is consistent with the objectives of DOE's classified information protection requirements.
[70 FR 3607, Jan. 26, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 66033, Dec. 14, 2009; 79 FR 19, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 41795, June 28, 2016; 81 FR 96352, Dec. 30, 2016; 83 FR 1292, Jan. 11, 2018; 83 FR 66083, Dec. 26, 2018; 85 FR 830, Jan. 8, 2020; 86 FR 2956, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 1064, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 2194, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1029, Jan. 9, 2024; 89 FR 105407, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 824.5
Investigations.
The Director may conduct investigations and inspections relating to the scope, nature and extent of compliance by a person with DOE security requirements specified in § 824.4(a) and (b) and take such action as the Director deems necessary and appropriate to the conduct of the investigation or inspection, including signing, issuing and serving subpoenas.
§ 824.6
Preliminary notice of violation.
(a) In order to begin a proceeding to impose a civil penalty under this part, the Director shall notify the person by a written preliminary notice of violation sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, of:
(1) The date, facts, and nature of each act or omission constituting the alleged violation;
(2) The particular provision of the regulation, rule or compliance order involved in each alleged violation;
(3) The proposed remedy for each alleged violation, including the amount of any civil penalty proposed; and,
(4) The right of the person to submit a written reply to the Director within 30 calendar days of receipt of such preliminary notice of violation.
(b) A reply to a preliminary notice of violation must contain a statement of all relevant facts pertaining to an alleged violation. The reply must:
(1) State any facts, explanations and arguments which support a denial of the alleged violation;
(2) Demonstrate any extenuating circumstances or other reason why a proposed remedy should not be imposed or should be mitigated;
(3) Discuss the relevant authorities which support the position asserted, including rulings, regulations, interpretations, and previous decisions issued by DOE;
(4) Furnish full and complete answers to any questions set forth in the preliminary notice; and
(5) Include copies of all relevant documents.
(c) If a person fails to submit a written reply within 30 calendar days of receipt of a preliminary notice of violation:
(1) The person relinquishes any right to appeal any matter in the preliminary notice; and
(2) The preliminary notice, including any remedies therein, constitutes a final order.
(d) The Director, at the request of a person notified of an alleged violation, may extend for a reasonable period the time for submitting a reply or a hearing request letter.
§ 824.7
Final notice of violation.
(a) If a person submits a written reply within 30 calendar days of receipt of a preliminary notice of violation, the Director must make a final determination whether the person violated or is continuing to violate a classified information security requirement.
(b) Based on a determination by the Director that a person has violated or is continuing to violate a classified information security requirement, the Director may issue to the person a final notice of violation that concisely states the determined violation, the amount of any civil penalty imposed, and further actions necessary by or available to the person. The final notice of violation also must state that the person has the right to submit to the Director, within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the notice, a written request for a hearing under § 824.8 or, in the alternative, to elect the procedures specified in section 234A.c.(3) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 2282a.c.(3).
(c) The Director must send a final notice of violation by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 30 calendar days of the receipt of a reply.
(d) Subject to paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, the effect of final notice shall be:
(1) If a final notice of violation does not contain a civil penalty, it shall be deemed a final order 15 days after the final notice is issued.
(2) If a final notice of violation contains a civil penalty, the person must submit to the Director within 30 days after the issuance of the final notice:
(i) A waiver of further proceedings;
(ii) A request for an on-the-record hearing under § 824.8; or
(iii) A notice of intent to proceed under section 234A.c.(3) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 2282a.(c)(3).
(e) If a person waives further proceedings, the final notice of violation shall be deemed a final order enforceable against the person. The person must pay the civil penalty set forth in the notice of violation within 60 days of the filing of waiver unless the Director grants additional time.
(f) If a person files a request for an on-the-record hearing, then the hearing process commences.
(g) If the person files a notice of intent to proceed under section 234A.c.(3) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 2282a.(c)(3), the Director, by order, shall assess the civil penalty set forth in the Notice of Violation.
(h) The Director may amend the final notice of violation at any time before the time periods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) expire. An amendment shall add fifteen days to the time period under paragraph (d) of this section.
(i) The Director may withdraw the final notice of violation, or any part thereof, at any time before the time periods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) expire.
§ 824.8
Hearing.
(a) Any person who receives a final notice of violation under § 824.7 may request a hearing concerning the allegations contained in the notice. The person must mail or deliver any written request for a hearing to the Director within 30 calendar days of receipt of the final notice of violation.
(b) Upon receipt from a person of a written request for a hearing, the Director shall:
(1) Appoint a Hearing Counsel; and
(2) Select an administrative law judge appointed under section 3105 of Title 5, U.S.C., to serve as Hearing Officer.
§ 824.9
Hearing Counsel.
The Hearing Counsel:
(a) Represents DOE;
(b) Consults with the person or the person's counsel prior to the hearing;
(c) Examines and cross-examines witnesses during the hearing; and
(d) Enters into a settlement of the enforcement proceeding at any time if settlement is consistent with the objectives of the Act and DOE security requirements.
§ 824.10
Hearing Officer.
The Hearing Officer:
(a) Is responsible for the administrative preparations for the hearing;
(b) Convenes the hearing as soon as is reasonable;
(c) Administers oaths and affirmations;
(d) Issues subpoenas, at the request of either party or on the Hearing Officer's motion;
(e) Rules on offers of proof and receives relevant evidence;
(f) Takes depositions or has depositions taken when the ends of justice would be served;
(g) Conducts the hearing in a manner which is fair and impartial;
(h) Holds conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties;
(i) Disposes of procedural requests or similar matters;
(j) Requires production of documents; and
(k) Makes an initial decision under § 824.13.
§ 824.11
Rights of the person at the hearing.
The person may:
(a) Testify or present evidence through witnesses or by documents;
(b) Cross-examine witnesses and rebut records or other physical evidence, except as provided in § 824.12(d);
(c) Be present during the entire hearing, except as provided in § 824.12(d); and
(d) Be accompanied, represented and advised by counsel of the person's choosing.
§ 824.12
Conduct of the hearing.
(a) DOE shall make a transcript of the hearing;
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Hearing Officer may receive any oral or documentary evidence, but shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence;
(c) Witnesses shall testify under oath and are subject to cross-examination, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section;
(d) The Hearing Officer must use procedures appropriate to safeguard and prevent unauthorized disclosure of classified information or any other information protected from public disclosure by law or regulation, with minimum impairment of rights and obligations under this part. The classified or otherwise protected status of any information shall not, however, preclude its being introduced into evidence. The Hearing Officer may issue such orders as may be necessary to consider such evidence
in camera
including the preparation of a supplemental initial decision to address issues of law or fact that arise out of that portion of the evidence that is classified or otherwise protected.
(e) DOE has the burden of going forward with and of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the violation occurred as set forth in the final notice of violation and that the proposed civil penalty is appropriate. The person to whom the final notice of violation has been addressed shall have the burden of presenting and of going forward with any defense to the allegations set forth in the final notice of violation. Each matter of controversy shall be determined by the Hearing Officer upon a preponderance of the evidence.
§ 824.13
Initial decision.
(a) The Hearing Officer shall issue an initial decision as soon as practicable after the hearing. The initial decision shall contain findings of fact and conclusions regarding all material issues of law, as well as reasons therefor. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation has occurred and that a civil penalty is appropriate, the initial decision shall set forth the amount of the civil penalty based on:
(1) The nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation or violations;
(2) The violator's ability to pay;
(3) The effect of the civil penalty on the person's ability to do business;
(4) Any history of prior violations;
(5) The degree of culpability; and
(6) Such other matters as justice may require.
(b) The Hearing Officer shall serve all parties with the initial decision by certified mail, return receipt requested. The initial decision shall include notice that it constitutes a final order of DOE 30 days after the filing of the initial decision unless the Secretary files a Notice of Review. If the Secretary files a notice of Notice of Review, he shall file a final order as soon as practicable after completing his review. The Secretary, at his discretion, may order additional proceedings, remand the matter, or modify the amount of the civil penalty assessed in the initial decision. DOE shall notify the person of the Secretary's action under this paragraph in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested. The person against whom the civil penalty is assessed by the final order shall pay the full amount of the civil penalty assessed in the final order within thirty days (30) unless otherwise agreed by the Director.
§ 824.14
Special procedures.
A person receiving a final notice of violation under § 824.7 may elect in writing, within 30 days of receipt of such notice, the application of special procedures regarding payment of the penalty set forth in section 234A.c.(3) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 2282a(c)(3). The Director shall promptly assess a civil penalty, by order, after the date of such election. If the civil penalty has
not been paid within sixty calendar days after the assessment has been issued, the DOE shall institute an action in the appropriate District Court of the United States for an order affirming the assessment of the civil penalty.
§ 824.15
Collection of civil penalties.
If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty after it has become a final order or after the appropriate District Court has entered final judgment for DOE under § 824.14, DOE shall institute an action to recover the amount of such penalty in an appropriate District Court of the United States.
§ 824.16
Direction to NNSA contractors.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the NNSA Administrator, rather than the Director, signs, issues, serves, or takes the following actions that direct NNSA contractors or subcontractors.
(1) Subpoenas;
(2) Orders to compel attendance;
(3) Disclosures of information or documents obtained during an investigation or inspection;
(4) Preliminary notices of violation; and
(5) Final notices of violations.
(b) The Administrator shall act after consideration of the Director's recommendation. If the Administrator disagrees with the Director's recommendation, and the disagreement cannot be resolved by the two officials, the Director may refer the matter to the Deputy Secretary for resolution.
Pt. 824, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 824—General Statement of Enforcement Policy

# I. Introduction
a. This policy statement sets forth the general framework through which DOE will seek to ensure compliance with its classified information security regulations and rules and classified information security-related compliance orders (hereafter collectively referred to as classified information security requirements).
The policy set forth herein is applicable to violations of classified information security requirements by DOE contractors and their subcontractors (hereafter collectively referred to as DOE contractors). This policy statement is not a regulation and is intended only to provide general guidance to those persons subject to the classified information security requirements. It is not intended to establish a formulaic approach to the initiation and resolution of situations involving noncompliance with these requirements. Rather, DOE intends to consider the particular facts of each noncompliance situation in determining whether enforcement penalties are appropriate and, if so, the appropriate magnitude of those penalties. DOE reserves the option to deviate from this policy statement when appropriate in the circumstances of particular cases.
b. Both the Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 7101, and the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (the Act), 42 U.S.C. 2011, require DOE to protect and provide for the common defense and security of the United States in conducting its nuclear activities, and grant DOE broad authority to achieve this goal.
c. The DOE goal in the compliance arena is to enhance and protect the common defense and security at DOE facilities by fostering a culture among both DOE line organizations and contractors that actively seeks to attain and sustain compliance with classified information security requirements. The enforcement program and policy have been developed with the express purpose of achieving a culture of active commitment to security and voluntary compliance. DOE will establish effective administrative processes and incentives for contractors to identify and report noncompliances promptly and openly and to initiate comprehensive corrective actions to resolve both the noncompliances themselves and the program or process deficiencies that led to noncompliance.
d. In the development of the DOE enforcement policy, DOE believes that the reasonable exercise of its enforcement authority can help to reduce the likelihood of serious security incidents. This can be accomplished by providing greater emphasis on a culture of security awareness in existing DOE operations and strong incentives for contractors to identify and correct noncompliance conditions and processes in order to protect classified information of vital significance to this nation. DOE wants to facilitate, encourage, and support contractor initiatives for the prompt identification and correction of problems. These initiatives and activities will be duly considered in exercising enforcement discretion.
e. Section 234B of the Act provides DOE with the authority to impose civil penalties and also with the authority to compromise, modify, or remit civil penalties with or without conditions. In implementing section 234B, DOE will carefully consider the facts of each case of noncompliance and will exercise appropriate judgment in taking any enforcement action. Part of the function of a sound
enforcement program is to assure a proper and continuing level of security vigilance. The reasonable exercise of enforcement authority will be facilitated by the appropriate application of security requirements to nuclear facilities and by promoting and coordinating the proper contractor attitude toward complying with those requirements.

# II. Purpose
The purpose of the DOE enforcement program is to promote and protect the common defense and security of the United States by:
a. Ensuring compliance by DOE contractors with applicable classified information security requirements.
b. Providing positive incentives for a DOE contractor's:
(1) Timely self-identification of security deficiencies,
(2) Prompt and complete reporting of such deficiencies to DOE,
(3) Root cause analyses of security deficiencies,
(4) Prompt correction of security deficiencies in a manner which precludes recurrence, and
(5) Identification of modifications in practices or facilities that can improve security.
c. Deterring future violations of DOE requirements by a DOE contractor.
d. Encouraging the continuous overall improvement of operations at DOE facilities.

# III. Statutory Authority
Section 234B of the Act subjects contractors, and their subcontractors and suppliers, to civil penalties for violations of DOE regulations, rules and orders regarding the safeguarding and security of Restricted Data and other classified information.

# IV. Procedural Framework
a. 10 CFR part 824 sets forth the procedures DOE will use in exercising its enforcement authority, including the issuance of notices of violation and the resolution of contested enforcement actions in the event a DOE contractor elects to adjudicate contested issues before an administrative law judge.
b. Pursuant to § 824.6, the Director initiates the civil penalty process by issuing a preliminary notice of violation that specifies a proposed civil penalty. The DOE contractor is required to respond in writing to the preliminary notice of violation, either admitting the violation and waiving its right to contest the proposed civil penalty and paying it; admitting the violation, but asserting the existence of mitigating circumstances that warrant either the total or partial remission of the civil penalty; or denying that the violation has occurred and providing the basis for its belief that the preliminary notice of violation is incorrect. After evaluation of the DOE's contractor response, the Director may determine that no violation has occurred; that the violation occurred as alleged in the preliminary notice of violation, but that the proposed civil penalty should be remitted in whole or in part; or that the violation occurred as alleged in the preliminary notice of violation and that the proposed civil penalty is appropriate notwithstanding the asserted mitigating circumstances. In the latter two instances, the Director will issue a final notice of violation or a final notice of violation with proposed civil penalty.
c. An opportunity to challenge a proposed civil penalty either before an administrative law judge or in a United States District Court is provided in 42 U.S.C. 2282a(c). Part 824 sets forth the procedures associated with an administrative hearing, should the contractor opt for that method of challenging the proposed civil penalty.

# V. Severity of Violations
a. Violations of classified information security requirements have varying degrees of security significance. Therefore, the relative importance of each violation must be identified as the first step in the enforcement process. Violations of classified information security requirements are categorized in three levels of severity to identify their relative security significance. Notices of violation are issued for noncompliance and propose civil penalties commensurate with the severity level of the violation(s) involved.
b. Severity Level I has been assigned to violations that are the most significant and Severity Level III violations are the least significant. Severity Level I is reserved for violations of classified information security requirements which involve actual or high potential for adverse impact on the national security. Severity Level II violations represent a significant lack of attention or carelessness toward responsibilities of DOE contractors for the protection of classified information which could, if uncorrected, potentially lead to an adverse impact on the national security. Severity Level III violations are less serious, but are of more than minor concern:
i.e.
, if left uncorrected, they could lead to a more serious concern. In some cases, violations may be evaluated in the aggregate and a single severity level assigned for a group of violations.
c. Isolated minor violations of classified information security requirements will not be the subject of formal enforcement action through the issuance of a notice of violation. However, these minor violations will be identified as noncompliances and tracked to assure that appropriate corrective/remedial action is taken to prevent their recurrence, and evaluated to determine if generic or specific problems exist. If circumstances demonstrate that a number of related minor noncompliances have occurred in the same time
frame (
e.g.
, all identified during the same assessment), or that related minor noncompliances have recurred despite prior notice to the DOE contractor and sufficient opportunity to correct the problem, DOE may choose in its discretion to consider the noncompliances in the aggregate as a more serious violation warranting a Severity Level III designation, a notice of violation and a possible civil penalty.
d. The severity level of a violation will depend, in part, on the degree of culpability of the DOE contractor with regard to the violation. Thus, inadvertent or negligent violations will be viewed differently from those in which there is gross negligence, deception or willfulness. In addition to the significance of the underlying violation and level of culpability involved, DOE will also consider the position, training and experience of the person involved in the violation. Thus, for example, a violation may be deemed to be more significant if a senior manager of an organization is involved rather than a foreman or non-supervisory employee. In this regard, while management involvement, direct or indirect, in a violation may lead to an increase in the severity level of a violation and proposed civil penalty, the lack of such involvement will not constitute grounds to reduce the severity level of a violation or mitigate a civil penalty. Allowance of mitigation in such circumstances could encourage lack of management involvement in DOE contractor activities and a decrease in protection of classified information.
e. Other factors which will be considered by DOE in determining the appropriate severity level of a violation are the duration of the violation, the past performance of the DOE contractor in the particular activity area involved, whether the DOE contractor had prior notice of a potential problem, and whether there are multiple examples of the violation in the same time frame rather than an isolated occurrence. The relative weight given to each of these factors in arriving at the appropriate severity level will depend on the circumstances of each case.
f. DOE expects contractors to provide full, complete, timely, and accurate information and reports. Accordingly, the severity level of a violation involving either failure to make a required report or notification to DOE or an untimely report or notification will be based upon the significance of, and the circumstances surrounding, the matter that should have been reported. A contractor will not normally be cited for a failure to report a condition or event unless the contractor was actually aware or should have been aware of the condition or event which it failed to report.

# VI. Enforcement Conferences
a. Should DOE determine, after completion of all assessment and investigation activities associated with a potential or alleged violation of classified information security requirements, that there is a reasonable basis to believe that a violation has actually occurred, and the violation may warrant a civil penalty, DOE will normally hold an enforcement conference with the DOE contractor involved prior to taking enforcement action. DOE may also elect to hold an enforcement conference for potential violations which would not ordinarily warrant a civil penalty but which could, if repeated, lead to such action. The purpose of the enforcement conference is to assure the accuracy of the facts upon which the preliminary determination to consider enforcement action is based, discuss the potential or alleged violations, their significance and causes, and the nature of and schedule for the DOE contractor's corrective actions, determine whether there are any aggravating or mitigating circumstances, and obtain other information which will help determine the appropriate enforcement action.
b. DOE contractors will be informed prior to a meeting when that meeting is considered to be an enforcement conference. Such conferences are informal mechanisms for candid pre-decisional discussions regarding potential or alleged violations and will not normally be open to the public. In circumstances for which immediate enforcement action is necessary in the interest of the national security, such action will be taken prior to the enforcement conference, which may still be held after the necessary DOE action has been taken.

# VII. Enforcement Letter
a. In cases where DOE has decided not to issue a notice of violation, DOE may send an enforcement letter to the contractor signed by the Director. The enforcement letter is intended to communicate the basis of the decision not to pursue further enforcement action for a noncompliance. The enforcement letter is intended to point contractors to the desired level of security performance. It may be used when the Director concludes the specific noncompliance at issue is not of the level of significance warranted for issuance of a notice of violation. The enforcement letter will typically describe how the contractor handled the circumstances surrounding the noncompliance and address additional areas requiring the contractor's attention and DOE's expectations for corrective action. The enforcement letter notifies the contractor that, when verification is received that corrective actions have been implemented, DOE will close the enforcement action. In the case of NNSA contractors or subcontractors, the enforcement letter will take the form of advising the contractor or subcontractor that the Director has consulted with the NNSA Administrator who
agrees that further enforcement action should not be pursued if verification is received that corrective actions have been implemented by the contractor or subcontractor.
b. In many investigations, an enforcement letter may not be required. When DOE decides that a contractor has appropriately corrected a noncompliance or that the significance of the noncompliance is sufficiently low, it may close out an investigation without such enforcement letter. A closeout of a noncompliance with or without an enforcement letter may only take place after the Director has issued a letter confirming that corrective actions have been completed. In the case of NNSA contractors or subcontractors, the Director's letter will take the form of confirming that corrective actions have been completed and advising that the Director has consulted with the NNSA Administrator who agrees that no enforcement action should be pursued.

# VIII. Enforcement Actions
The nature and extent of the enforcement action is intended to reflect the seriousness of the violation involved. For the vast majority of violations for which DOE assigns severity levels as described previously, a notice of violation will be issued, requiring a formal response from the recipient describing the nature of and schedule for corrective actions it intends to take regarding the violation.

# 1. Notice of Violation
a. A Notice of Violation (preliminary or final) is a document setting forth the conclusion that one or more violations of classified information security requirements have occurred. Such a notice normally requires the recipient to provide a written response which may take one of several positions described in Section IV of this policy statement. In the event that the recipient concedes the occurrence of the violation, it is required to describe corrective steps which have been taken and the results achieved; remedial actions which will be taken to prevent recurrence; and the date by which full compliance will be achieved.
b. DOE will use the notice of violation as the standard method for formalizing the existence of a possible violation and the notice of violation will be issued in conjunction with the proposed imposition of a civil penalty. In certain limited instances, as described in this section, DOE may refrain from the issuance of an otherwise appropriate notice of violation. However, a notice of violation normally will be issued for willful violations, for violations where past corrective actions for similar violations have not been sufficient to prevent recurrence and there are no other mitigating circumstances.
c. DOE contractors are not ordinarily cited for violations resulting from matters not within their control, such as equipment failures that were not avoidable by reasonable quality assurance measures, proper maintenance, or management controls. With regard to the issue of funding, however, DOE does not consider an asserted lack of funding to be a justification for noncompliance with classified information security requirements. Should a contractor believe that a shortage of funding precludes it from achieving compliance with one or more of these requirements, it may request, in writing, an exemption from the requirement(s) in question from the appropriate Secretarial Officer (SO). If no exemption is granted, the contractor, in conjunction with the SO, must take appropriate steps to modify, curtail, suspend or cease the activities which cannot be conducted in compliance with the classified information security requirement(s) in question.
d. DOE expects the contractors which operate its facilities to have the proper management and supervisory systems in place to assure that all activities at DOE facilities, regardless of who performs them, are carried out in compliance with all classified information security requirements. Therefore, contractors normally will be held responsible for the acts or omissions of their employees and subcontractor employees in the conduct of activities at DOE facilities.

# 2. Civil Penalty
a. A civil penalty is a monetary penalty that may be imposed for violations of applicable classified information security requirements, including compliance orders. Civil penalties are designed to emphasize the need for lasting remedial action, deter future violations, and underscore the importance of DOE contractor self-identification, reporting and correction of violations.
b. Absent mitigating circumstances as described below, or circumstances otherwise warranting the exercise of enforcement discretion by DOE as described in this section, civil penalties will be proposed for Severity Level I and II violations. Civil penalties also will be proposed for Severity Level III violations which are similar to previous violations for which the contractor did not take effective corrective action. “Similar” violations are those which could reasonably have been expected to have been prevented by corrective action for the previous violation. DOE normally considers civil penalties only for similar Severity Level III violations that occur over an extended period of time.
c. DOE will impose different base level civil penalties considering the severity level of the violation(s). Table 1 shows the daily base civil penalties for the various categories of severity levels. However, as described in Section V, the imposition of civil
penalties will also take into account the gravity, circumstances, and extent of the violation or violations and, with respect to the violator, any history of prior similar violations and the degree of culpability and knowledge.
d. Regarding the factor of ability of DOE contractors to pay the civil penalties, it is not DOE's intention that the economic impact of a civil penalty is such that it puts a DOE contractor out of business. Contract termination, rather than civil penalties, is used when the intent is to terminate a contractor's management of a DOE facility. The deterrent effect of civil penalties is best served when the amount of such penalties takes this factor into account. However, DOE will evaluate the relationship of entities affiliated with the contractor (such as parent corporations) when it asserts that it cannot pay the proposed penalty.
e. DOE will review each case involving a proposed civil penalty on its own merit and adjust the base civil penalty values upward or downward appropriately.As indicated in paragraph 2.c of this section, Table 1 identifies the daily base civil penalty values for different severity levels.After considering all relevant circumstances, civil penalties may be escalated or mitigated based upon the adjustment factors described below in this section.In no instance will a civil penalty for any one violation exceed the statutory limit, as periodically adjusted for inflation as required by law, per violation.However, it should be noted that if a violation is a continuing one, under the statute, each day the violation continued constitutes a separate violation for purposes of computing the civil penalty.Thus, the per violation cap will not shield a DOE contractor that is or should have been aware of an ongoing violation and has not reported it to DOE and taken corrective action despite an opportunity to do so from liability significantly exceeding the limit.Further, as described in this section, the duration of a violation will be taken into account in determining the appropriate severity level of the base civil penalty.
Table 1—Severity level Base Civil Penalties
Severity level
Base civil penalty amount (percentage of maximum civil penalty per violation per day)
I
100
II
50
III
10

# 3. Adjustment Factors
a. DOE's enforcement program is not an end in itself, but a means to achieve compliance with classified information security requirements, and civil penalties are not assessed for revenue purposes, but rather to emphasize the importance of compliance and to deter future violations. The single most important goal of the DOE enforcement program is to encourage early identification and reporting of security deficiencies and violations of classified information security requirements by the DOE contractors themselves rather than by DOE, and the prompt correction of any deficiencies and violations so identified. With respect to their own practices and those of their subcontractors, DOE believes that DOE contractors are in the best position to identify and promptly correct noncompliance with classified information security requirements. DOE expects that these contractors should have in place internal compliance programs which will ensure the detection, reporting and prompt correction of security-related problems that may constitute, or lead to, violations of classified information security requirements before, rather than after, DOE has identified such violations. Thus, DOE contractors are expected to be aware of and to address security problems before they are discovered by DOE. Obviously, protection of classified information is enhanced if deficiencies are discovered (and promptly corrected) by the DOE contractor, rather than by DOE, which may not otherwise become aware of a deficiency until later on, during the course of an inspection, performance assessment, or following an incident at the facility. Early identification of classified information security-related problems by DOE contractors can also have the added benefit of allowing information which could prevent such problems at other facilities in the DOE complex to be shared with other appropriate DOE contractors.
b. Pursuant to this enforcement philosophy, DOE will provide substantial incentive for the early self-identification, reporting and prompt correction of problems which constitute, or could lead to, violations of classified information security requirements. Thus, application of the adjustment factors set forth below may result in no civil penalty being assessed for violations that are identified, reported, and promptly and effectively corrected by the DOE contractor.
c. On the other hand, ineffective programs for problem identification and correction are unacceptable. Thus, for example, where a contractor fails to disclose and promptly correct violations of which it was aware or should have been aware, substantial civil penalties are warranted and may be sought, including the assessment of civil penalties for continuing violations on a per day basis.
d. Further, in cases involving factors of willfulness, repeated violations, patterns of systematic violations, flagrant DOE-identified violations or serious breakdown in management controls, DOE intends to apply its
full statutory enforcement authority where such action is warranted. Based on the degree of such factors, DOE may escalate the amount of civil penalties up to the statutory maximum, as periodically adjusted for inflation as required by law, per violation per day for continuing violations.

# 4. Identification and Reporting
Reduction of up to 50% of the base civil penalty shown in Table 1 may be given when a DOE contractor identifies the violation and promptly reports the violation to the DOE. In weighing this factor, consideration will be given to, among other things, the opportunity available to discover the violation, the ease of discovery and the promptness and completeness of any required report. No consideration will be given to a reduction in penalty if the DOE contractor does not take prompt action to report the problem to DOE upon discovery, or if the immediate actions necessary to restore compliance with classified information security requirements or place the facility or operation in a safe configuration are not taken.

# 5. Self-Identification and Tracking Systems
a. DOE strongly encourages contractors to self-identify noncompliances with classified information security requirements before the noncompliances lead to a string of similar and potentially more significant events or consequences. When a contractor identifies a noncompliance through its own self-monitoring activity, DOE will normally allow a reduction in the amount of civil penalties, regardless of whether prior opportunities existed for contractors to identify the noncompliance. DOE normally will not allow a reduction in civil penalties for self-identification if DOE intervention was required to induce the contractor to report a noncompliance.
b. Self-identification of a noncompliance is possibly the single most important factor in considering a reduction in the civil penalty amount. Consideration of self-identification is linked to, among other things, whether prior opportunities existed to discover the violation, and if so, the age and number of such opportunities; the extent to which proper contractor controls should have identified or prevented the violation; whether discovery of the violation resulted from a contractor's self-monitoring activity; the extent of DOE involvement in discovering the violation or in prompting the contractor to identify the violation; and the promptness and completeness of any required report. Self-identification is also considered by DOE in deciding whether to pursue an investigation.

# 6. Self-Disclosing Events
a. DOE expects contractors to demonstrate acceptance of responsibility for security of classified information and to pro-actively identify noncompliance conditions in their programs and processes. In deciding whether to reduce any civil penalty proposed for violations revealed by the occurrence of a self-disclosing event (
e.g.
belated discovery of the disappearance of classified information or material subject to accountability rules), DOE will consider the ease with which a contractor could have discovered the noncompliance,
i.e.
failure to comply with classified information accountability rules, that contributed to the event and the prior opportunities that existed to discover the noncompliance. When the occurrence of an event discloses noncompliances that the contractor could have or should have identified before the event, DOE will not generally allow a reduction in civil penalties for self-identification. If a contractor simply reacts to events that disclose potentially significant consequences or downplays noncompliances which did not result in significant consequences, such contractor actions do not lead to the improvement in protection of classified information contemplated by the Act.
b. The key test is whether the contractor reasonably could have detected any of the underlying noncompliances that contributed to the event. Failure to utilize events and activities to address noncompliances may result in higher civil penalty assessments or a DOE decision not to reduce civil penalty amounts.

# 7. Corrective Action To Prevent Recurrence
The promptness (or lack thereof) and extent to which the DOE contractor takes corrective action, including actions to identify root causes and prevent recurrence, may result in up to a 50% increase or decrease in the base civil penalty shown in Table 1. For example, very extensive corrective action may result in reducing the proposed civil penalty as much as 50% of the base value shown in Table 1. On the other hand, the civil penalty may be increased as much as 50% of the base value if initiation or corrective action is not prompt or if the corrective action is only minimally acceptable. In weighing this factor, consideration will be given to, among other things, the appropriateness, timeliness and degree of initiative associated with the corrective action. The comprehensiveness of the corrective action will also be considered, taking into account factors such as whether the action is focused narrowly to the specific violation or broadly to the general area of concern.

# 8. DOE's Contribution to a Violation
There may be circumstances in which a violation of a classified information security requirement results, in part or entirely, from a direction given by DOE personnel to a DOE contractor to either take, or forbear from
taking an action at a DOE facility. In such cases, DOE may refrain from issuing a notice of violation, and may mitigate, either partially or entirely, any proposed civil penalty, provided that the direction upon which the DOE contractor relied is documented in writing, contemporaneously with the direction. It should be emphasized, however, that no interpretation of a classified information security requirement is binding upon DOE unless issued in writing by the General Counsel. Further, as discussed in this section of this policy statement, lack of funding by itself will not be considered as a mitigating factor in enforcement actions.

# 9. Exercise of Discretion
Because DOE wants to encourage and support DOE contractor initiative for prompt self-identification, reporting and correction of problems, DOE may exercise discretion as follows:
a. In accordance with the previous discussion, DOE may refrain from issuing a civil penalty for a violation which meets all of the following criteria:
(1) The violation is promptly identified and reported to DOE before DOE learns of it;
(2) The violation is not willful or a violation that could reasonably be expected to have been prevented by the DOE contractor's corrective action for a previous violation;
(3) The DOE contractor, upon discovery of the violation, has taken or begun to take prompt and appropriate action to correct the violation; and
(4) The DOE contractor has taken, or has agreed to take, remedial action satisfactory to DOE to preclude recurrence of the violation and the underlying conditions which caused it.
b. DOE may refrain from proposing a civil penalty for a violation involving a past problem that meets all of the following criteria:
(1) It was identified by a DOE contractor as a result of a formal effort such as an annual self assessment that has a defined scope and timetable which is being aggressively implemented and reported;
(2) Comprehensive corrective action has been taken or is well underway within a reasonable time following identification; and
(3) It was not likely to be identified by routine contractor efforts such as normal surveillance or quality assurance activities.
c. DOE will not issue a notice of violation for cases in which the violation discovered by the DOE contractor cannot reasonably be linked to the conduct of that contractor, provided that prompt and appropriate action is taken by the DOE contractor upon identification of the past violation to report to DOE and remedy the problem.
d. DOE may refrain from issuing a notice of violation for an act or omission constituting noncompliance that meets all of the following criteria:
(1) It was promptly identified by the contractor;
(2) It is normally classified at a Severity Level III;
(3) It was promptly reported to DOE;
(4) Prompt and appropriate corrective action will be taken, including measures to prevent recurrence; and
(5) It was not a willful violation or a violation that could reasonably be expected to have been prevented by the DOE contractor's corrective action for a previous violation.
e. DOE may refrain from issuing a notice of violation for an act or omission constituting noncompliance that meets all of the following criteria:
(1) It was an isolated Severity Level III violation identified during an inspection or evaluation conducted by the Office of Independent Oversight, or a DOE security survey, or during some other DOE assessment activity;
(2) The identified noncompliance was properly reported by the contractor upon discovery;
(3) The contractor initiated or completed appropriate assessment and corrective actions within a reasonable period, usually before the termination of the onsite inspection or integrated performance assessment; and
(4) The violation was not willful or one which could reasonably be expected to have been prevented by the DOE contractor's corrective action for a previous violation.
f. In situations where corrective actions have been completed before termination of an inspection or assessment, a formal response from the contractor is not required and the inspection or integrated performance assessment report serves to document the violation and the corrective action. However, in all instances, the contractor is required to report the noncompliance through established reporting mechanisms so the noncompliance issue and any corrective actions can be properly tracked and monitored.
g. If DOE initiates an enforcement action for a violation at a Severity Level II or III and, as part of the corrective action for that violation, the DOE contractor identifies other examples of the violation with the same root cause, DOE may refrain from initiating an additional enforcement action. In determining whether to exercise this discretion, DOE will consider whether the DOE contractor acted reasonably and in a timely manner appropriate to the security significance of the initial violation, the comprehensiveness of the corrective action, whether the matter was reported, and whether the additional violation(s) substantially change the security significance or character of the concern arising out of the initial violation.
h. The preceding paragraphs are solely intended to be examples indicating when enforcement discretion may be exercised to
forego the issuance of a civil penalty or, in some cases, the initiation of any enforcement action at all. However, notwithstanding these examples, a civil penalty may be proposed or notice of violation issued when, in DOE's judgment, such action is warranted on the basis of the circumstances of an individual case.
[70 FR 3607, Jan. 26, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 68733, Nov. 28, 2006; 74 FR 66033, Dec. 14, 2009; 79 FR 19, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 41795, June 28, 2016]
Pt. 830

# PART 830—NUCLEAR SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Sec.
830.1
Scope.
830.2
Exclusions.
830.3
Definitions.
830.4
General requirements.
830.5
Enforcement.
830.6
Recordkeeping.
830.7
Graded approach.

# Subpart A—Quality Assurance Requirements
830.120
Scope.
830.121
Quality Assurance Program (QAP).
830.122
Quality assurance criteria.

# Subpart B—Safety Basis Requirements
830.200
Scope.
830.201
Performance of work.
830.202
Safety basis.
830.203
Unreviewed safety question process.
830.204
Documented safety analysis.
830.205
Technical safety requirements.
830.206
Preliminary documented safety analysis.
830.207
DOE approval of safety basis.
Appendix A to Subpart B to Part 830—General Statement of Safety Basis Policy

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201; 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.;
and 50 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.

# Source:
85 FR 66205, Oct. 19, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 830.1
Scope.
This part governs the conduct of DOE contractors, DOE personnel, and other persons conducting activities (including providing items and services) that affect, or may affect, the safety of DOE nuclear facilities.
§ 830.2
Exclusions.
This part does not apply to:
(a) Activities that are regulated through a license by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or a State under an Agreement with the NRC, including activities certified by the NRC under section 1701 of the Atomic Energy Act (Act);
(b) Activities conducted under the authority of the Director, Naval Nuclear Propulsion, pursuant to Executive Order 12344, as set forth in Public Law 106- 65;
(c) Transportation activities which are regulated by the Department of Transportation;
(d) Activities conducted under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, and any facility identified under section 202(5) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and
(e) Activities related to the launch approval and actual launch of nuclear energy systems into space.
§ 830.3
Definitions.
(a) The following definitions apply to this part:
Administrative controls
means the provisions relating to organization and management, procedures, recordkeeping, assessment, and reporting necessary to ensure safe operation of a facility.
Bases appendix
means an appendix that describes the basis of the limits and other requirements in technical safety requirements.
Critical assembly
means special nuclear devices designed and used to sustain nuclear reactions, which may be subject to frequent core and lattice configuration change and which frequently may be used as mockups of reactor configurations.
Criticality
means the condition in which a nuclear fission chain reaction becomes self-sustaining.
Design features
means the design features of a nuclear facility specified in the technical safety requirements that, if altered or modified, would have a significant effect on safe operation.
Document
means recorded information that describes, specifies, reports, certifies, requires, or provides data or results.
Documented safety analysis
means a documented analysis of the extent to which a nuclear facility can be operated safely with respect to workers,
the public, and the environment, including a description of the conditions, safe boundaries, and hazard controls that provide the basis for ensuring safety.
Environmental restoration activities
means the process(es) by which contaminated sites and facilities are identified and characterized and by which contamination is contained, treated, or removed and disposed.
Fissionable materials
means a nuclide capable of sustaining a neutron-induced chain reaction (
e.g.,
uranium-233, uranium-235, plutonium-238, plutonium-239, plutonium-241, neptunium-237, americium-241, and curium-244).
Graded approach
means the process of ensuring that the level of analysis, documentation, and actions used to comply with a requirement in this part are commensurate with:
(1) The relative importance to safety, safeguards, and security;
(2) The magnitude of any hazard involved;
(3) The life cycle stage of a facility;
(4) The programmatic mission of a facility;
(5) The particular characteristics of a facility;
(6) The relative importance of radiological and nonradiological hazards; and
(7) Any other relevant factor.
Hazard
means a source of danger (
i.e.,
material, energy source, or operation) with the potential to cause illness, injury, or death to a person or damage to a facility or to the environment (without regard to the likelihood or credibility of accident scenarios or consequence mitigation).
Hazard Category 1, 2, and 3 DOE nuclear facilities
means nuclear facilities that meet the criteria for their respective hazard category consistent with the provisions of DOE-STD-1027-92, Change Notice 1. Hazard Category 1, 2, and 3 DOE nuclear facilities are required to have safety bases established in accordance with Subpart B of this part. Hazard categories are based on their radioactive material inventories and the potential consequences to the public, workers, and the environment. Hazard Category 1 represents the highest potential consequence and Hazard Category 3 represents the lowest potential consequence of the facilities required to establish safety bases.
Hazard controls
means measures to eliminate, limit, or mitigate hazards to workers, the public, or the environment, including:
(1) Physical, design, structural, and engineering features;
(2) Safety structures, systems, and components;
(3) Safety management programs;
(4) Technical safety requirements; and
(5) Other controls necessary to provide adequate protection from hazards.
Item
is an all-inclusive term used in place of any of the following: Appurtenance, assembly, component, equipment, material, module, part, product, structure, subassembly, subsystem, system, unit, or support systems.
Limiting conditions for operation
means the limits that represent the lowest functional capability or performance level of safety structures, systems, and components required for safe operations.
Limiting control settings
means the settings on safety systems that control process variables to prevent exceeding a safety limit.
Low-level residual fixed radioactivity
means the remaining radioactivity following reasonable efforts to remove radioactive systems, components, and stored materials. The remaining radioactivity is composed of surface contamination that is fixed following chemical cleaning or some similar process; a component of surface contamination that can be picked up by smears; or activated materials within structures. The radioactivity can be characterized as low-level if the smearable radioactivity is less than the values defined for removable contamination by 10 CFR part 835, Appendix D, Surface Contamination Values, and the hazard analysis results show that no credible accident scenario or work practices would release the remaining fixed radioactivity or activation components at levels that would prudently require the use of active safety systems, structures, or components to prevent or mitigate a release of radioactive materials.
Major modification
means a modification to a DOE nuclear facility that substantially changes the existing safety basis for the facility.
New Hazard Category 1, 2, and 3 DOE nuclear facility
means a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility that is in design or under construction that does not yet have a DOE approved safety basis.
Nonreactor nuclear facility
means those facilities, activities or operations that involve, or will involve, radioactive and/or fissionable materials in such form and quantity that a nuclear or a nuclear explosive hazard potentially exists to workers, the public, or the environment, but does not include accelerators and their operations and does not include activities involving only incidental use and generation of radioactive materials or radiation such as check and calibration sources, use of radioactive sources in research and experimental and analytical laboratory activities, electron microscopes, and X-ray machines.
Nuclear facility
means a reactor or a nonreactor nuclear facility where an activity is conducted for or on behalf of DOE and includes any related area, structure, facility, or activity to the extent necessary to ensure proper implementation of the requirements established by this Part.
Operating limits
means those limits required to ensure the safe operation of a nuclear facility, including limiting control settings and limiting conditions for operation.
Preliminary documented safety analysis
means documentation prepared in connection with the design and construction of a new Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility or a major modification to an existing Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility that provides a reasonable basis for the preliminary conclusion that the nuclear facility can be operated safely through the consideration of factors such as:
(1) The nuclear safety design criteria to be satisfied;
(2) A safety analysis that derives aspects of design that are necessary to satisfy the nuclear safety design criteria; and
(3) An initial listing of the safety management programs that must be developed to address operational safety considerations.
Process
means a series of actions that achieves an end or result.
Quality
means the condition achieved when an item, service, or process meets or exceeds the user's requirements and expectations.
Quality assurance
means all those actions that provide confidence that quality is achieved.
Quality Assurance Program (QAP)
means the overall program or management system established to assign responsibilities and authorities, define policies and requirements, and provide for the performance and assessment of work.
Reactor
means any apparatus that is designed or used to sustain nuclear chain reactions in a controlled manner such as research, test, and power reactors, and critical and pulsed assemblies and any assembly that is designed to perform subcritical experiments that could potentially reach criticality; and, unless modified by words such as containment, vessel, or core, refers to the entire facility, including the housing, equipment and associated areas devoted to the operation and maintenance of one or more reactor cores.
Record
means a completed document or other media that provides objective evidence of an item, service, or process.
Safety basis
means the documented safety analysis and hazard controls that provide reasonable assurance that a DOE nuclear facility can be operated safely in a manner that adequately protects workers, the public, and the environment.
Safety class structures, systems, and components
means the structures, systems, or components, including portions of process systems, whose preventive or mitigative function is necessary to limit radioactive hazardous material exposure to the public, as determined from safety analyses.
Safety evaluation report
means the report prepared by DOE to document:
(1) The sufficiency of the documented safety analysis for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility;
(2) The extent to which a contractor has satisfied the requirements of Subpart B of this part; and
(3) The basis for approval by DOE of the safety basis for the facility, including any conditions for approval.
Safety limits
means the limits on process variables associated with those safety class physical barriers, generally passive, that are necessary for the intended facility function and that are required to guard against the uncontrolled release of radioactive materials.
Safety management program
means a program designed to ensure a facility is operated in a manner that adequately protects workers, the public, and the environment by covering a topic such as: Quality assurance; maintenance of safety systems; personnel training; conduct of operations; inadvertent criticality protection; emergency preparedness; fire protection; waste management; or radiological protection of workers, the public, and the environment.
Safety management system
means an integrated safety management system established consistent with 48 CFR 970.5223-1,
Integration of environment, safety, and health into work planning and execution.
Safety significant structures, systems, and components
means the structures, systems, and components which are not designated as safety class structures, systems, and components, but whose preventive or mitigative function is a major contributor to defense in depth and/or worker safety as determined from safety analyses.
Safety structures, systems, and components
means both safety class structures, systems, and components and safety significant structures, systems, and components.
Service
means the performance of work, such as design, manufacturing, construction, fabrication, assembly, decontamination, environmental restoration, waste management, laboratory sample analyses, inspection, nondestructive examination/testing, environmental qualification, equipment qualification, repair, installation, or the like.
Surveillance requirements
means requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection to ensure that the necessary operability and quality of safety structures, systems, and components and their support systems required for safe operations are maintained, that facility operation is within safety limits, and that limiting control settings and limiting conditions for operation are met.
Technical safety requirements (TSRs)
means the limits, controls, and related actions that establish the specific parameters and requisite actions for the safe operation of a nuclear facility and include, as appropriate for the work and the hazards identified in the documented safety analysis for the facility: Safety limits, operating limits, surveillance requirements, administrative and management controls, use and application provisions, and design features, as well as a bases appendix.
Unreviewed Safety Question (USQ)
means a situation where:
(1) The probability of the occurrence or the consequences of an accident or the malfunction of equipment important to safety previously evaluated in the documented safety analysis could be increased;
(2) The possibility of an accident or malfunction of a different type than any evaluated previously in the documented safety analysis could be created; or
(3) The documented safety analysis may not be bounding or may be otherwise inadequate.
Unreviewed Safety Question process
means the mechanism for keeping a safety basis current by reviewing potential unreviewed safety questions, reporting unreviewed safety questions to DOE, and obtaining approval from DOE prior to taking any action that involves an unreviewed safety question.
Use and application provisions
means the basic instructions for applying technical safety requirements.
(b) Terms defined in the Act or in 10 CFR part 820 and not defined in this section of the rule are to be used consistent with the meanings given in the Act or in 10 CFR part 820.
§ 830.4
General requirements.
(a) No person may take or cause to be taken any action inconsistent with the requirements of this part.
(b) A contractor responsible for a nuclear facility must ensure implementation of, and compliance with, the requirements of this part.
(c) The requirements of this part must be implemented in a manner that provides reasonable assurance of adequate protection of workers, the public, and the environment from adverse consequences, taking into account the work to be performed and the associated hazards.
(d) If there is no contractor for a DOE nuclear facility, DOE must ensure implementation of, and compliance with, the requirements of this part.
§ 830.5
Enforcement.
The requirements in this part are DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements and are subject to enforcement by all appropriate means, including the imposition of civil and criminal penalties in accordance with the provisions of 10 CFR part 820.
§ 830.6
Recordkeeping.
A contractor must maintain complete and accurate records as necessary to substantiate compliance with the requirements of this part.
§ 830.7
Graded approach.
Where appropriate, a contractor must use a graded approach to implement the requirements of this part, document the basis of the graded approach used, and submit that documentation to DOE. The graded approach may not be used in implementing the unreviewed safety question (USQ) process or in implementing technical safety requirements.

# Subpart A—Quality Assurance Requirements
§ 830.120
Scope.
This subpart establishes quality assurance requirements for contractors conducting activities, including providing items or services that affect, or may affect, nuclear safety of DOE nuclear facilities.
§ 830.121
Quality Assurance Program (QAP).
(a) Contractors conducting activities, including providing items or services, that affect, or may affect, the nuclear safety of DOE nuclear facilities must conduct work in accordance with the Quality Assurance criteria in § 830.122.
(b) The contractor responsible for a DOE nuclear facility must:
(1) Submit a QAP to DOE for approval and regard the QAP as approved 90 days after submittal, unless it is approved or rejected by DOE at an earlier date.
(2) Modify the QAP as directed by DOE.
(3) Annually submit any changes to the DOE-approved QAP to DOE for approval. Justify in the submittal why the changes continue to satisfy the quality assurance requirements.
(4) Conduct work in accordance with the QAP.
(c) The QAP must:
(1) Describe how the quality assurance criteria of § 830.122 are satisfied.
(2) Integrate the quality assurance criteria with the Safety Management System, or describe how the quality assurance criteria apply to the Safety Management System.
(3) Use voluntary consensus standards in its development and implementation, where practicable and consistent with contractual and regulatory requirements, and identify the standards used.
(4) Describe how the contractor responsible for the nuclear facility ensures that subcontractors and suppliers satisfy the criteria of § 830.122.
§ 830.122
Quality assurance criteria.
The QAP must address the following management, performance, and assessment criteria:
(a)
Criterion 1—Management/Program.
(1) Establish an organizational structure, functional responsibilities, levels of authority, and interfaces for those managing, performing, and assessing the work.
(2) Establish management processes, including planning, scheduling, and providing resources for the work.
(b)
Criterion 2—Management/Personnel Training and Qualification.
(1) Train and
qualify personnel to be capable of performing their assigned work.
(2) Provide continuing training to personnel to maintain their job proficiency.
(c)
Criterion 3—Management/Quality Improvement.
(1) Establish and implement processes to detect and prevent quality problems.
(2) Identify, control, and correct items, services, and processes that do not meet established requirements.
(3) Identify the causes of problems and work to prevent recurrence as a part of correcting the problem.
(4) Review item characteristics, process implementation, and other quality-related information to identify items, services, and processes needing improvement.
(d)
Criterion 4—Management/Documents and Records.
(1) Prepare, review, approve, issue, use, and revise documents to prescribe processes, specify requirements, or establish design.
(2) Specify, prepare, review, approve, and maintain records.
(e)
Criterion 5—Performance/Work Processes.
(1) Perform work consistent with technical standards, administrative controls, and other hazard controls adopted to meet regulatory or contract requirements, using approved instructions, procedures, or other appropriate means.
(2) Identify and control items to ensure their proper use.
(3) Maintain items to prevent their damage, loss, or deterioration.
(4) Calibrate and maintain equipment used for process monitoring or data collection.
(f)
Criterion 6—Performance/Design.
(1) Design items and processes using sound engineering/scientific principles and appropriate standards.
(2) Incorporate applicable requirements and design bases in design work and design changes.
(3) Identify and control design interfaces.
(4) Verify or validate the adequacy of design products using individuals or groups other than those who performed the work.
(5) Verify or validate work before approval and implementation of the design.
(g)
Criterion 7—Performance/Procurement.
(1) Procure items and services that meet established requirements and perform as specified.
(2) Evaluate and select prospective suppliers on the basis of specified criteria.
Establish and implement processes to ensure that approved suppliers continue to provide acceptable items and services.
(h)
Criterion 8—Performance/Inspection and Acceptance Testing.
(1) Inspect and test specified items, services, and processes using established acceptance and performance criteria.
(2) Calibrate and maintain equipment used for inspections and tests.
(i)
Criterion 9—Assessment/Management Assessment.
Ensure managers assess their management processes and identify and correct problems that hinder the organization from achieving its objectives.
(j)
Criterion 10—Assessment/Independent Assessment.
(1) Plan and conduct independent assessments to measure item and service quality, to measure the adequacy of work performance, and to promote improvement.
(2) Establish sufficient authority, and freedom from line management, for the group performing independent assessments.
(3) Ensure persons who perform independent assessments are technically qualified and knowledgeable in the areas to be assessed.

# Subpart B—Safety Basis Requirements
§ 830.200
Scope.
This Subpart establishes safety basis requirements for Hazard Category 1, 2, and 3 DOE nuclear facilities.
§ 830.201
Performance of work.
A contractor must perform work in accordance with the DOE-approved safety basis for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility and, in particular, with the hazard controls that ensure adequate protection of workers, the public, and the environment.
§ 830.202
Safety basis.
(a) The contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear
facility must establish and maintain the safety basis for the facility.
(b) In establishing the safety basis for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility, the contractor responsible for the facility must:
(1) Define the scope of the work to be performed;
(2) Identify and analyze the hazards associated with the work;
(3) Categorize the facility consistent with DOE-STD-1027-92 (“Hazard Categorization and Accident Analysis Techniques for compliance with DOE Order 5480.23, Nuclear Safety Analysis Reports,” Change Notice 1, September 1997);
(4) Prepare a documented safety analysis for the facility; and
(5) Establish the hazard controls upon which the contractor will rely to ensure adequate protection of workers, the public, and the environment.
(c) In maintaining the safety basis for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility, the contractor responsible for the facility must:
(1) Update the safety basis to keep it current and to reflect changes in the facility, the work and the hazards as they are analyzed in the documented safety analysis;
(2) Annually provide DOE the current documented safety analysis or a letter stating that there have been no changes in the documented safety analysis since the prior submittal; and
(3) Incorporate in the safety basis any changes, conditions, or hazard controls directed by DOE.
§ 830.203
Unreviewed safety question process.
(a) The contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must establish, implement, and take actions consistent with a DOE-approved USQ procedure that meets the requirements of this section.
(b) The contractor responsible for a new Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must submit for DOE approval a procedure for its USQ process on a schedule that allows DOE approval in a safety evaluation report issued pursuant to § 830. 207(a) of this part.
(c) The contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must implement the DOE-approved USQ procedure in situations where there is a:
(1) Temporary or permanent change in the facility as described in the existing documented safety analysis;
(2) Temporary or permanent change in the procedures as described in the existing documented safety analysis;
(3) Test or experiment not described in the existing documented safety analysis; or
(4) Potential inadequacy of the documented safety analysis because the analysis potentially may not be bounding or may be otherwise inadequate.
(d) A contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must obtain DOE approval prior to taking any action determined to involve a USQ.
(e) The contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must annually provide to DOE a summary of the USQ determinations performed since the prior submittal.
(f) If a contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility discovers or is made aware of a potential inadequacy of the documented safety analysis, it must:
(1) Take action, as appropriate, to place or maintain the facility in a safe condition until an evaluation of the safety of the situation is completed;
(2) Notify DOE of the situation;
(3) Perform a USQ determination and notify DOE promptly of the results; and
(4) Submit the evaluation of the safety of the situation to DOE prior to removing any operational restrictions initiated to meet paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
§ 830.204
Documented safety analysis.
(a) The contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must obtain approval from DOE for the methodology used to prepare the documented safety analysis for the facility unless the contractor uses a methodology set forth in Table 1 of Appendix A to this part.
(b) The documented safety analysis for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must, as appropriate for the complexities and hazards associated with the facility:
(1) Describe the facility (including the design of safety structures, systems and components) and the work to be performed;
(2) Provide a systematic identification of both natural and man-made hazards associated with the facility;
(3) Evaluate normal, abnormal, and accident conditions, including consideration of natural and man-made external events, identification of energy sources or processes that might contribute to the generation or uncontrolled release of radioactive and other hazardous materials, and consideration of the need for analysis of accidents which may be beyond the design basis of the facility;
(4) Derive the hazard controls necessary to ensure adequate protection of workers, the public, and the environment, demonstrate the adequacy of these controls to eliminate, limit, or mitigate identified hazards, and define the process for maintaining the hazard controls current at all times and controlling their use;
(5) Define the characteristics of the safety management programs necessary to ensure the safe operation of the facility, including (where applicable) quality assurance, procedures, maintenance, personnel training, conduct of operations, emergency preparedness, fire protection, waste management, and radiation protection; and
(6) With respect to a nonreactor nuclear facility with fissionable material in a form and amount sufficient to pose a potential for criticality, define a criticality safety program that:
(i) Ensures that operations with fissionable material remain subcritical under all normal and credible abnormal conditions;
(ii) Identifies applicable nuclear criticality safety standards; and
(iii) Describes how the program meets applicable nuclear criticality safety standards.
§ 830.205
Technical safety requirements.
(a) A contractor responsible for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must:
(1) Develop technical safety requirements that are derived from the documented safety analysis;
(2) Prior to use, obtain DOE approval of technical safety requirements and any change to technical safety requirements; and
(3) Notify DOE of any violation of a technical safety requirement.
(b) A contractor may take emergency actions that depart from an approved technical safety requirement when no actions consistent with the technical safety requirement are immediately apparent, and when these actions are needed to protect workers, the public or the environment from imminent and significant harm. Such actions must be approved by a certified operator for a reactor or by a person in authority as designated in the technical safety requirements for nonreactor nuclear facilities. The contractor must report the emergency actions to DOE as soon as practicable.
(c) A contractor for an environmental restoration activity may follow the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.120 or 29 CFR 1926.65 to develop the appropriate hazard controls (rather than the provisions for technical safety requirements in paragraph (a) of this section), provided the activity involves either:
(1) Work not done within a permanent structure, or
(2) The decommissioning of a facility with only low-level residual fixed radioactivity.
§ 830.206
Preliminary documented safety analysis.
Prior to construction of a new Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility or a major modification to an existing Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility, the contractor responsible for the design and construction of the new facility or major modification must:
(a) Prepare a preliminary documented safety analysis for the facility, and
(b) Obtain DOE approval of:
(1) The nuclear safety design criteria to be used in preparing the preliminary documented safety analysis unless the contractor uses the design criteria in DOE Order 420.1,
Facility Safety,
or successor document; and
(2) The preliminary documented safety analysis before the contractor can procure materials or components or
begin construction; provided that DOE may authorize the contractor to perform limited procurement and construction activities without approval of a preliminary documented safety analysis if DOE determines that the activities are not detrimental to public health and safety and are in the best interests of DOE.
§ 830.207
DOE approval of safety basis.
(a) With respect to a new Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility or a major modification to an existing Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility, a contractor may not begin operation of the facility or modification prior to the issuance of a safety evaluation report in which DOE approves the safety basis for the facility or modification.
(b) Pending issuance of a safety evaluation report in which DOE approves an updated or amended safety basis for an existing Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility, the contractor responsible for the facility must continue to perform work in accordance with the DOE-approved safety basis for the facility and maintain the existing safety basis consistent with the requirements of this Subpart.
Pt. 830, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B to Part 830—General Statement of Safety Basis Policy

# A. Introduction
This appendix describes DOE's expectations for the safety basis requirements of 10 CFR part 830, acceptable methods for implementing these requirements, and criteria DOE will use to evaluate compliance with these requirements. This appendix does not create any new requirements and should be used consistently with DOE's policy that work be conducted safely and efficiently and in a manner that ensures protection of workers, the public, and the environment.

# B. Purpose
1. The safety basis requirements of Part 830 require the contractor responsible for a DOE nuclear facility to analyze the facility, the work to be performed, and the associated hazards and to identify the conditions, safe boundaries, and hazard controls necessary to protect workers, the public and the environment from adverse consequences. These analyses and hazard controls constitute the safety basis upon which the contractor and DOE rely to conclude that the facility can be operated safely. Performing work consistent with the safety basis provides reasonable assurance of adequate protection of workers, the public, and the environment.
2. The safety basis requirements are intended to further the objective of making safety an integral part of how work is performed throughout the DOE complex. Developing a thorough understanding of a nuclear facility, the work to be performed, the associated hazards and the needed hazard controls is essential to integrating safety into management and work at all levels. Performing work in accordance with the safety basis for a nuclear facility is the realization of that objective.

# C. Scope
1. A contractor must establish and maintain a safety basis for a Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility because these facilities have the potential for significant radiological consequences. DOE-STD-1027 sets forth the methodology for categorizing a DOE nuclear facility based on the inventory of radioactive materials.
2. Unlike the quality assurance requirements of Part 830 that apply to all DOE nuclear facilities, the safety basis requirements only apply to Hazard Category 1, 2, and 3 DOE nuclear facilities and do not apply to nuclear facilities below Hazard Category 3.

# D. Integrated Safety Management
1. The safety basis requirements are consistent with integrated safety management. DOE expects that, if a contractor complies with the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation (DEAR) clause on integration of environment, safety, and health into work planning and execution (48 CFR 970.5223-1,
Integration of Environment, Safety and Health into Work Planning and Execution
) and the DEAR clause on laws, regulations, and DOE directives (48 CFR 970.5204-2, Laws, Regulations and DOE Directives), the contractor will have established the foundation to meet the safety basis requirements.
2. The processes embedded in a safety management system should lead to a contractor establishing adequate safety bases and safety management programs that will meet the safety basis requirements of this Subpart. Consequently, the DOE expects if a contractor has adequately implemented integrated safety management, few additional requirements will stem from this Subpart and, in such cases, the existing safety basis prepared in accordance with integrated safety management provisions, including existing DOE safety requirements in contracts, should meet the requirements of this Subpart.
3. DOE does not expect there to be any conflict between contractual requirements and
regulatory requirements. In fact, DOE expects that contract provisions will be used to provide more detail on implementation of safety basis requirements such as preparing a documented safety analysis, developing technical safety requirements, and implementing a USQ process.

# E. Enforcement of Safety Basis Requirements
1. Enforcement of the safety basis requirements will be performance oriented. That is, DOE will focus its enforcement efforts on whether a contractor operates a nuclear facility consistent with the safety basis for the facility and, in particular, whether work is performed in accordance with the safety basis.
2. As part of the approval process, DOE will review the content and quality of the safety basis documentation. DOE intends to use the approval process to assess the adequacy of a safety basis developed by a contractor to ensure that workers, the public, and the environment are provided reasonable assurance of adequate protection from identified hazards. Once approved by DOE, the safety basis documentation will not be subject to regulatory enforcement actions unless DOE determines that the information which supports the documentation is not complete and accurate in all material respects, as required by 10 CFR 820.11. This is consistent with the DOE enforcement provisions and policy in 10 CFR part 820.
3. DOE does not intend the adoption of the safety basis requirements to affect the existing quality assurance requirements or the existing obligation of contractors to comply with the quality assurance requirements. In particular, in conjunction with the adoption of the safety basis requirements, DOE revised the language in 10 CFR 830.122(e)(1) to make clear that hazard controls are part of the work processes to which a contractor and other persons must adhere when performing work. This obligation to perform work consistent with hazard controls adopted to meet regulatory or contract requirements existed prior to the adoption of the safety basis requirements and is both consistent with and independent of the safety basis requirements.
4. A documented safety analysis must address all hazards (that is, both radiological and nonradiological hazards) and the controls necessary to provide adequate protection to the public, workers, and the environment from these hazards. Section 234A of the Atomic Energy Act only authorizes DOE to issue civil penalties for violations of requirements related to nuclear safety. Therefore, DOE will impose civil penalties for violations of the safety basis requirements (including hazard controls) only if they are related to nuclear safety.

# F. Documented Safety Analysis
1. A documented safety analysis must demonstrate the extent to which a nuclear facility can be operated safely with respect to workers, the public, and the environment.
2. DOE expects a contractor to use a graded approach to develop a documented safety analysis and describe how the graded approach was applied. The level of detail, analysis, and documentation will reflect the complexity and hazards associated with a particular facility. Thus, the documented safety analysis for a simple, low hazard facility may be relatively short and qualitative in nature, while the documented safety analysis for a complex, high hazard facility may be quite elaborate and more quantitative. DOE will work with its contractors to ensure a documented safety analysis is appropriate for the facility for which it is being developed.
3. Because DOE has ultimate responsibility for the safety of its facilities, DOE will review each documented safety analysis:
(i) As part of the initial submittal;
(ii) When revisions are submitted as part of a positive USQ determination or major modification;
(iii) If DOE has reason to believe a portion of the safety basis to be inadequate, or;
(iv) If DOE has reason to believe a portion of the safety basis has substantially changed. DOE will review the documented safety analysis to determine whether the rigor and detail of the documented safety analysis are appropriate for the complexity and hazards expected at the nuclear facility. In particular, DOE will evaluate the documented safety analysis by considering the extent to which the documented safety analysis:
(A) Satisfies the provisions of the methodology used to prepare the documented safety analysis and
(B) Adequately addresses the criteria set forth in 10 CFR 830.204(b). DOE will prepare a Safety Evaluation Report to document the results of its review of the documented safety analysis. A documented safety analysis must contain any conditions or changes required by DOE in the Safety Evaluation Report. Generally, DOE's review of the annual submittal may be limited to ensuring that the results of USQs have been adequately incorporated into the documented safety analysis. If additional changes are proposed by the contractor and included in the annual update that have not been previously approved by DOE or have not been evaluated as a part of the USQ process, DOE must review and approve these changes. DOE has the authority to review the safety basis at any time.
4. In most cases, the contract will provide the framework for specifying the methodology and schedule for developing a documented safety analysis. Table 1 sets forth acceptable methodologies for preparing a documented safety analysis.
Table 1
The contractor responsible for:
May prepare its document safety analysis by:
(1) A DOE reactor
Using the method in U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regulatory Guide 1.70, Standard Format and Content of Safety Analysis Reports for Nuclear Power Plants, or successor document.
(2) A DOE nonreactor nuclear facility
Using the method in DOE-STD-3009, Change Notice No. 1, January 2000, Preparation Guide for U.S. Department of Energy Nonreactor Nuclear Facility Safety Analysis Reports, July 1994, or successor document.
(3) A DOE nuclear facility with a limited operational life
Using the method in either:
(i) DOE-STD-3009-, Change Notice No. 1, January 2000, or successor document, or
(ii) DOE-STD-3011-94, Guidance for Preparation of DOE 5480.22 (TSR) and DOE 5480.23 (SAR) Implementation Plans, November 1994, or successor document.
(4) The deactivation or the transition surveillance and maintenance of a DOE nuclear facility
Using the method in either:
(i) DOE-STD-3009, Change Notice No. 1, January 2000, or successor document, or
(ii) DOE-STD-3011-94 or successor document.
(5) The decommissioning of a DOE nuclear facility
(i) Using the method in DOE-STD-1120-98, Integration of Environment, Safety, and Health into Facility Disposition Activities, May 1998, or successor document;
(ii) Using the provisions in 29 CFR 1910.120 (or 29 CFR 1926.65 for construction activities) for developing Safety and Health Programs, Work Plans, Health and Safety Plans, and Emergency Response Plans to address public safety, as well as worker safety; and
(iii) Deriving hazard controls based on the Safety and Health Programs, the Work Plans, the Health and Safety Plans, and the Emergency Response Plans.
(6) A DOE environmental restoration activity that involves either work not done within a permanent structure or the decommissioning of a facility with only low-level residual fixed radioactivity
(i) Using the method in DOE-STD-1120-98 or successor document, and
(ii) Using the provisions in 29 CFR 1910.120 (or 29 CFR 1926.65 for construction activities) for developing a Safety and Health Program and a site-specific Health and Safety Plan (including elements for Emergency Response Plans, conduct of operations, training and qualifications, and maintenance management).
(7) A DOE nuclear explosive facility and the nuclear explosive operations conducted therein
Developing its documented safety analysis in two pieces:
(i) A Safety Analysis Report for the nuclear facility that considers the generic nuclear explosive operations and is prepared in accordance with DOE-STD-3009, Change Notice No. 1, January 2000, or successor document, and
(ii) A Hazard Analysis Report for the specific nuclear explosive operations prepared in accordance with DOE-STD-3016-99, Hazards Analysis Reports for Nuclear Explosive Operations, February 1999, or successor document.
(8) A DOE Hazard Category 3 nonreactor nuclear facility
Using the methods in Chapters 2, 3, 4, and 5 of DOE-STD-3009, Change Notice No. 1, January 2000, or successor document to address in a simplified fashion:
(i) The basic description of the facility/activity and its operations, including safety structures, systems, and components;
(ii) A qualitative hazards analysis; and
(iii) The hazard controls (consisting primarily of inventory limits and safety management programs) and their bases.
(9) Transportation activities
(i) Preparing a Safety Analysis Report for Packaging in accordance with DOE-O-460.1A, Packaging and Transportation Safety, October 2, 1996, or successor document and
(ii) Preparing a Transportation Safety Document in accordance with DOE-G-460.1-1, Implementation Guide for Use with DOE O 460.1A, Packaging and Transportation Safety, June 5, 1997, or successor document.
(10) Transportation and onsite transfer of nuclear explosives, nuclear components, Naval nuclear fuel elements, Category I and Category II special nuclear materials, special assemblies, and other materials of national security
(i) Preparing a Safety Analysis Report for Packaging in accordance with DOE-O-461.1, Packaging and Transportation of Materials of National Security Interest, September 29, 2000, or successor document and
(ii) Preparing a Transportation Safety Document in accordance with DOE-M-461.1-1, Packaging and Transfer of Materials of National Security Interest Manual, September 29, 2000, or successor document.
5. Table 1 refers to specific types of nuclear facilities. These references are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list of the specific types of nuclear facilities. Part 830 defines nuclear facility broadly to include a reactor or a nonreactor nuclear facility where an activity is conducted for or on behalf of DOE and includes any related area, structure, facility, or activity to the extent necessary to ensure proper implementation of the requirements established by this part. The only exceptions are those facilities specifically excluded such as accelerators. Table
2 defines the terms referenced in Table 1 that are not defined in 10 CFR 830.3.
Table 2
For purposes of Table 1:
Means:
(1) Deactivation
The process of placing a facility in a stable and known condition, including the removal of hazardous and radioactive materials.
(2) Decontamination
The removal or reduction of residual radioactive and hazardous materials by mechanical, chemical, or other techniques to achieve a stated objective or end condition.
(3) Decommissioning
Those actions taking place after deactivation of a nuclear facility to retire it from service and includes surveillance and maintenance, decontamination, and/or dismantlement.
(4) Environmental restoration activities
The process by which contaminated sites and facilities are identified and characterized and by which existing contamination is contained, or removed and disposed.
(5) Generic nuclear explosive operation
A characterization that considers the collective attributes (such as special facility system requirements, physical weapon characteristics, or quantities and chemical/physical forms of hazardous materials) for all projected nuclear explosive operations to be conducted at a facility.
(6) Nuclear explosive facility
A nuclear facility at which nuclear operations and activities involving a nuclear explosive may be conducted.
(7) Nuclear explosive operation
Any activity involving a nuclear explosive, including activities in which main-charge, high-explosive parts and pits are collocated.
(8) Nuclear facility with a limited operational life
A nuclear facility for which there is a short remaining operational period before ending the facility's mission and initiating deactivation and decommissioning and for which there are no intended additional missions other than cleanup.
(9) Specific nuclear explosive operation
A specific nuclear explosive subjected to the stipulated steps of an individual operation, such as assembly or disassembly.
(10) Transition surveillance and maintenance activities
Activities conducted when a facility is not operating or during deactivation, decontamination, and decommissioning operations when surveillance and maintenance are the predominant activities being conducted at the facility. These activities are necessary for satisfactory containment of hazardous materials and protection of workers, the public, and the environment. These activities include providing periodic inspections, maintenance of structures, systems, and components, and actions to prevent the alteration of hazardous materials to an unsafe state.
6. The contractor responsible for the design and construction of a new Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility or a major modification to an existing Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility must prepare a preliminary documented safety analysis. A preliminary documented safety analysis can ensure that substantial costs and time are not wasted in constructing a nuclear facility that will not be acceptable to DOE. If a contractor is required to prepare a preliminary documented safety analysis, the contractor must obtain DOE approval of the preliminary documented safety analysis prior to procuring materials or components or beginning construction. DOE, however, may authorize the contractor to perform limited procurement and construction activities without approval of a preliminary documented safety analysis if DOE determines that the activities are not detrimental to public health and safety and are in the best interests of DOE. DOE Order 420.1, or successor document, sets forth acceptable nuclear safety design criteria for use in preparing a preliminary documented safety analysis. As a general matter, DOE does not expect preliminary documented safety analyses to be needed for activities that do not involve significant construction such as environmental restoration activities, decontamination and decommissioning activities, specific nuclear explosive operations, or transition surveillance and maintenance activities.

# G. Hazard Controls
1. Hazard controls are measures to eliminate, limit, or mitigate hazards to workers, the public, or the environment. They include:
(i) Physical, design, structural, and engineering features;
(ii) Safety structures, systems, and components;
(iii) Safety management programs;
(iv) Technical safety requirements; and
(v) Other controls necessary to provide adequate protection from hazards.
2. The types and specific characteristics of the safety management programs necessary for a DOE nuclear facility will be dependent on the complexity and hazards associated with the nuclear facility and the work being performed. In most cases, however, a contractor should consider safety management programs covering topics such as quality assurance, procedures, maintenance, personnel training, conduct of operations, criticality
safety, emergency preparedness, fire protection, waste management, and radiation protection. In general, DOE Orders set forth DOE's expectations concerning specific topics. For example, DOE Order 420.1, or successor document provides DOE's expectations with respect to fire protection and criticality safety.
3. Safety structures, systems, and components require formal definition of minimum acceptable performance in the documented safety analysis. This is accomplished by first defining a safety function, then describing the structure, systems, and components, placing functional requirements on those portions of the structures, systems, and components required for the safety function, and identifying performance criteria that will ensure functional requirements are met. Technical safety requirements are developed to ensure the operability of the safety structures, systems, and components and define actions to be taken if a safety structure, system, or component is not operable.
4. Technical safety requirements establish limits, controls, and related actions necessary for the safe operation of a nuclear facility. The exact form and contents of technical safety requirements will depend on the circumstances of a particular nuclear facility as defined in the documented safety analysis for the nuclear facility. As appropriate, technical safety requirements may have sections on:
(i) Safety limits;
(ii) Operating limits;
(iii) Surveillance requirements;
(iv) Administrative controls;
(v) Use and application; and
(vi) Design features.
It may also have an appendix on the bases for the limits and requirements. DOE Guide 423.1-1B, Implementation Guide for Use in Developing Technical Safety Requirements, or successor document, provides a complete description of what technical safety requirements should contain and how they should be developed and maintained.
5. DOE will examine and approve the technical safety requirements as part of preparing the safety evaluation report and reviewing updates to the safety basis. As with all hazard controls, technical safety requirements must be kept current and reflect changes in the facility, the work and the hazards as they are analyzed in the documented safety analysis. In addition, DOE expects a contractor to maintain technical safety requirements, and other hazard controls as appropriate, as controlled documents with an authorized users list.
6. Table 3 sets forth DOE's expectations concerning acceptable technical safety requirements.
Table 3
As appropriate for a particular DOE
nuclear facility, the section of the technical
safety requirements on:
Will provide information on:
(1) Safety limits
The limits on process variables associated with those safety class physical barriers, generally passive, that are necessary for the intended facility function and that are required to guard against the uncontrolled release of radioactive materials. The safety limit section describes, as precisely as possible, the parameters being limited, states the limit in measurable units (pressure, temperature, flow, etc.), and indicates the applicability of the limit. The safety limit section also describes the actions to be taken in the event that the safety limit is exceeded. These actions should first place the facility in the safe, stable condition attainable, including total shutdown (except where such action might reduce the margin of safety) or should verify that the facility already is safe and stable and will remain so. The technical safety requirement should state that the contractor must obtain DOE authorization to restart the nuclear facility following a violation of a safety limit. The safety limit section also establishes the steps and time limits to correct the out-of-specification condition.
(2) Operating limits
Those limits which are required to ensure the safe operation of a nuclear facility. The operating limits section may include subsections on limiting control settings and limiting conditions for operation.
(3) Limiting control settings
The settings on safety systems that control process variables to prevent exceeding a safety limit. The limited control settings section normally contains the settings for automatic alarms and for the automatic or non-automatic initiation of protective actions related to those variables associated with the function of safety class structures, systems, or components if the safety analysis shows that they are relied upon to mitigate or prevent an accident. The limited control settings section also identifies the protective actions to be taken at the specific settings chosen in order to correct a situation automatically or manually such that the related safety limit is not exceeded. Protective actions may include maintaining the variables within the requirements and repairing the automatic device promptly or shutting down the affected part of the process and, if required, the entire facility.
(4) Limiting conditions for operations
The limits that represent the lowest functional capability or performance level of safety structures, systems, and components required to perform an activity safely. The limiting conditions for operation section describes, as precisely as possible, the lowest functional capability or performance level of equipment required for continued safe operation of the facility. The limiting conditions for operation section also states the action to be taken to address a condition not meeting the limiting conditions for operation section. Normally this simply provides for the adverse condition being corrected in a certain time frame and for further action if this is impossible.
(5) Surveillance requirements
Requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection to assure that the necessary operability and quality of safety structures, systems, and components is maintained; that facility operation is within safety limits; and that limiting control settings and limiting conditions for operation are met. If a required surveillance is not successfully completed, the contractor is expected to assume the systems or components involved are inoperable and take the actions defined by the technical safety requirement until the systems or components can be shown to be operable. If, however, a required surveillance is not performed within its required frequency, the contractor is allowed to perform the surveillance within 24 hours or the original frequency, whichever is smaller, and confirm operability.
(6) Administrative controls
Organization and management, procedures, recordkeeping, assessment, and reporting necessary to ensure safe operation of a facility consistent with the technical safety requirement. In general, the administrative controls section addresses (i) the requirements associated with administrative controls (including those for reporting violations of the technical safety requirement); (ii) the staffing requirements for facility positions important to safe conduct of the facility; and (iii) the commitments to the safety management programs identified in the documented safety analysis as necessary components of the safety basis for the facility.
(7) Use and application provisions
The basic instructions for applying the safety restrictions contained in a technical safety requirement. The use and application section includes definitions of terms, operating modes, logical connectors, completion times, and frequency notations.
(8) Design features
Design features of the facility that, if altered or modified, would have a significant effect on safe operation.
(9) Bases appendix
The reasons for the safety limits, operating limits, and associated surveillance requirements in the technical safety requirements. The statements for each limit or requirement shows how the numeric value, the condition, or the surveillance fulfills the purpose derived from the safety documentation. The primary purpose for describing the basis of each limit or requirement is to ensure that any future changes to the limit or requirement is done with full knowledge of the original intent or purpose of the limit or requirement.

# H. Unreviewed Safety Questions
1. The USQ process is an important tool to evaluate whether changes affect the safety basis. A contractor must use the USQ process to ensure that the safety basis for a DOE nuclear facility is not undermined by changes in the facility, the work performed, the associated hazards, or other factors that support the adequacy of the safety basis.
2. The USQ process permits a contractor to make physical and procedural changes to a nuclear facility and to conduct tests and experiments without prior approval, provided these changes do not cause a USQ. The USQ process provides a contractor with the flexibility needed to conduct day-to-day operations by requiring only those changes and tests with a potential to impact the safety basis (and therefore the safety of the nuclear facility) be approved by DOE. This allows DOE to focus its review on those changes significant to safety. The USQ process helps keep the safety basis current by ensuring appropriate review of and response to situations that might adversely affect the safety basis.
3. DOE Guide 424.1-1B Chg 2, Implementation Guide for Use in Addressing Unreviewed Safety Question Requirements, or successor document provides DOE's expectations for a USQ process. The contractor must obtain DOE approval of its procedure used to implement the USQ process. The contractor is allowed to make editorial and format changes to its USQ procedure while maintaining DOE approval.

# I. Functions and Responsibilities
1. The DOE Management Official for a DOE nuclear facility (that is, the Assistant Secretary, the Assistant Administrator, or the Office Director who is primarily responsible for the management of the facility) has primary responsibility within DOE for ensuring
that the safety basis for the facility is adequate and complies with the safety basis requirements of Part 830. The DOE Management Official is responsible for ensuring the timely and proper—
(i) Review of all safety basis documents submitted to DOE; and
(ii) Preparation of a safety evaluation report concerning the safety basis for a facility.
2. DOE will maintain a public list on the internet that provides the status of the safety basis for each Hazard Category 1, 2, or 3 DOE nuclear facility and, to the extent practicable, provides information on how to obtain a copy of the safety basis and related documents for a facility.
Pt. 835

# PART 835—OCCUPATIONAL RADIATION PROTECTION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
835.1
Scope.
835.2
Definitions.
835.3
General rule.
835.4
Radiological units.

# Subpart B—Management and Administrative Requirements
835.101
Radiation protection programs.
835.102
Internal audits.
835.103
Education, training and skills.
835.104
Written procedures.

# Subpart C—Standards for Internal and External Exposure
835.201
[Reserved]
835.202
Occupational dose limits for general employees.
835.203
Combining internal and external equivalent doses.
835.204
Planned special exposures.
835.205
Determination of compliance for non-uniform exposure of the skin.
835.206
Limits for the embryo/fetus.
835.207
Occupational dose limits for minors.
835.208
Limits for members of the public entering a controlled area.
835.209
Concentrations of radioactive material in air.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Monitoring of Individuals and Areas
835.401
General requirements.
835.402
Individual monitoring.
835.403
Air monitoring.
835.404
[Reserved]
835.405
Receipt of packages containing radioactive material.

# Subpart F—Entry Control Program
835.501
Radiological areas.
835.502
High and very high radiation areas.

# Subpart G—Posting and Labeling
835.601
General requirements.
835.602
Controlled areas.
835.603
Radiological areas and radioactive material areas.
835.604
Exceptions to posting requirements.
835.605
Labeling items and containers.
835.606
Exceptions to labeling requirements.

# Subpart H—Records
835.701
General provisions.
835.702
Individual monitoring records.
835.703
Other monitoring records.
835.704
Administrative records.

# Subpart I—Reports to Individuals
835.801
Reports to individuals.

# Subpart J—Radiation Safety Training
835.901
Radiation safety training.
835.902-835.903
[Reserved]

# Subpart K—Design and Control
835.1001
Design and control.
835.1002
Facility design and modifications.
835.1003
Workplace controls.

# Subpart L—Radioactive Contamination Control
835.1101
Control of material and equipment.
835.1102
Control of areas.

# Subpart M—Sealed Radioactive Source Control
835.1201
Sealed radioactive source control.
835.1202
Accountable sealed radioactive sources.

# Subpart N—Emergency Exposure Situations
835.1301
General provisions.
835.1302
Emergency exposure situations.
835.1303
[Reserved]
835.1304
Nuclear accident dosimetry.
Appendix A to Part 835—Derived Air Concentrations (DAC) for Controlling Radiation Exposure to Workers at DOE Facilities
Appendix B to Part 835 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 835—Derived Air Concentration (DAC) for Workers From External Exposure During Immersion in a Cloud of Airborne Radioactive Material
Appendix D to Part 835—Surface Contamination Values
Appendix E to Part 835—Values for Establishing Sealed Radioactive Source Accountability and Radioactive Material Posting and Labeling Requirements

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2201, 7191; 50 U.S.C. 2410.

# Source:
58 FR 65485, Dec. 14, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 835.1
Scope.
(a)
General.
The rules in this part establish radiation protection standards, limits, and program requirements for protecting individuals from ionizing radiation resulting from the conduct of DOE activities.
(b)
Exclusion.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the requirements in this part do not apply to:
(1) Activities that are regulated through a license by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or a State under an Agreement with the Nuclear Regulatory commission, including activities certified by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 1701 of the Atomic Energy Act;
(2) Activities conducted under the authority of the Deputy Administrator for Naval Reactors, as described in Pub. L. 98-525 and 106-65;
(3) Activities conducted under the Nuclear Explosives and Weapons Surety Program relating to the prevention of accidental or unauthorized nuclear detonations;
(4) DOE activities conducted outside the United States on territory under the jurisdiction of a foreign government to the extent governed by occupational radiation protection requirements agreed to between the United States and the cognizant government;
(5) Background radiation, radiation doses received as a patient for the purposes of medical diagnosis or therapy, or radiation doses received from participation as a subject in medical research programs; or
(6) Radioactive material on or within material, equipment, and real property which is approved for release when the radiological conditions of the material, equipment, and real property have been documented to comply with the criteria for release set forth in a DOE authorized limit which has been approved by a Secretarial Officer in consultation with the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security.
(7) Radioactive material transportation not performed by DOE or a DOE contractor.
