(a) OJT is defined at WIOA sec. 3(44). OJT is provided under a contract with an employer or registered apprenticeship program sponsor in the public, private non-profit, or private sector. Through the OJT contract, occupational training is provided for the WIOA participant in exchange for the reimbursement, typically up to 50 percent of the wage rate of the participant, for the extraordinary costs of providing the training and supervision related to the training. In limited circumstances, as provided in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(h) and § 680.730, the reimbursement may be up to 75 percent of the wage rate of the participant.
(b) OJT contracts under WIOA title I, must not be entered into with an employer who has received payments under previous contracts under WIOA
or WIA if the employer has exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits (including health benefits) and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.
(c) An OJT contract must be limited to the period of time required for a participant to become proficient in the occupation for which the training is being provided. In determining the appropriate length of the contract, consideration should be given to the skill requirements of the occupation, the academic and occupational skill level of the participant, prior work experience, and the participant's IEP.
§ 680.710
What are the requirements for on-the-job training contracts for employed workers?
OJT contracts may be written for eligible employed workers when:
(a) The employee is not earning a self-sufficient wage or wages comparable to or higher than wages from previous employment, as determined by Local WDB policy;
(b) The requirements in § 680.700 are met; and
(c) The OJT relates to the introduction of new technologies, introduction to new production or service procedures, upgrading to new jobs that require additional skills, workplace literacy, or other appropriate purposes identified by the Local WDB.
§ 680.720
What conditions govern on-the-job training payments to employers?
(a) OJT payments to employers are deemed to be compensation for the extraordinary costs associated with training participants and potentially lower productivity of the participants while in the OJT.
(b) Employers may be reimbursed up to 50 percent of the wage rate of an OJT participant, and up to 75 percent using the criteria in § 680.730, for the extraordinary costs of providing the training and additional supervision related to the OJT.
(c) Employers are not required to document such extraordinary costs.
§ 680.730
Under what conditions may a Governor or Local Workforce Development Board raise the on-the-job training reimbursement rate up to 75 percent of the wage rate?
(a) The Governor may increase the reimbursement rate for OJT contracts funded through the statewide employment and training activities described in § 682.210 of this chapter up to 75 percent, and the Local WDB also may increase the reimbursement rate for OJT contracts described in § 680.320(a)(1) up to 75 percent, when taking into account the following factors:
(1) The characteristics of the participants taking into consideration whether they are “individuals with barriers to employment,” as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24);
(2) The size of the employer, with an emphasis on small businesses;
(3) The quality of employer-provided training and advancement opportunities, for example if the OJT contract is for an in-demand occupation and will lead to an industry-recognized credential; and
(4) Other factors the Governor or Local WDB may determine to be appropriate, which may include the number of employees participating, wage and benefit levels of the employees (both at present and after completion), and relation of the training to the competitiveness of the participant.
(b) Governors or Local WDBs must document the factors used when deciding to increase the wage reimbursement levels above 50 percent up to 75 percent.
§ 680.740
How can on-the-job training funds be used to support placing participants into a registered apprenticeship program?
(a) OJT contracts may be entered into with registered apprenticeship program sponsors or participating employers in registered apprenticeship programs for the OJT portion of the registered apprenticeship program consistent with § 680.700. Depending on the length of the registered apprenticeship and State and local OJT policies, these funds may cover some or all of the registered apprenticeship training.
(b) If the apprentice is unemployed at the time of participation, the OJT must be conducted as described in § 680.700. If the apprentice is employed at the time of participation, the OJT must be conducted as described in § 680.710.
§ 680.750
Can Individual Training Account and on-the-job training funds be combined to support placing participants into a registered apprenticeship program?
There is no Federal prohibition on using both ITA and OJT funds when placing participants into a registered apprenticeship program. See § 680.330 on using ITAs to support participants in registered apprenticeship.
§ 680.760
What is customized training?
Customized training is training:
(a) That is designed to meet the special requirements of an employer (including a group of employers);
(b) That is conducted with a commitment by the employer to employ an individual upon successful completion of the training; and
(c) For which the employer pays for a significant cost of the training, as determined by the Local WDB in accordance with the factors identified in WIOA sec. 3(14).
§ 680.770
What are the requirements for customized training for employed workers?
Customized training of an eligible employed individual may be provided for an employer or a group of employers when:
(a) The employee is not earning a self-sufficient wage or wages comparable to or higher than wages from previous employment, as determined by Local WDB policy;
(b) The requirements in § 680.760 are met; and
(c) The customized training relates to the purposes described in § 680.710(c) or other appropriate purposes identified by the Local WDB.
§ 680.780
Who is an “incumbent worker” for purposes of statewide and local employment and training activities?
States and local areas must establish policies and definitions to determine which workers, or groups of workers, are eligible for incumbent worker services. To qualify as an incumbent worker, the incumbent worker needs to be employed, meet the Fair Labor Standards Act requirements for an employer-employee relationship, and have an established employment history with the employer for 6 months or more, with the following exception: In the event that the incumbent worker training is being provided to a cohort of employees, not every employee in the cohort must have an established employment history with the employer for 6 months or more as long as a majority of those employees being trained do meet the employment history requirement. An incumbent worker does not have to meet the eligibility requirements for career and training services for adults and dislocated workers under WIOA, unless they also are enrolled as a participant in the WIOA adult or dislocated worker program.
§ 680.790
What is incumbent worker training?
Incumbent worker training must satisfy the requirements in WIOA sec. 134(d)(4) and increase the competitiveness of the employee or employer. For purposes of WIOA sec. 134(d)(4)(B), incumbent worker training is training:
(a) Designed to meet the special requirements of an employer (including a group of employers) to retain a skilled workforce or avert the need to lay off employees by assisting the workers in obtaining the skills necessary to retain employment.
(b) Conducted with a commitment by the employer to retain or avert the layoffs of the incumbent worker(s) trained.
§ 680.800
What funds may be used for incumbent worker training?
(a) The local area may reserve up to 20 percent of their combined total of adult and dislocated worker allocations for incumbent worker training as described in § 680.790;
(b) The State may use their statewide activities funds (per WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(i)) and Rapid Response funds for statewide incumbent worker training activities (
see
§§ 682.210(b) and 682.320(b)(4) of this chapter).
§ 680.810
What criteria must be taken into account for an employer to be eligible to receive local incumbent worker training funds?
The Local WDB must consider under WIOA sec. 134(d)(4)(A)(ii):
(a) The characteristics of the individuals in the program;
(b) The relationship of the training to the competitiveness of an individual and the employer; and
(c) Other factors the Local WDB determines appropriate, including number of employees trained, wages and benefits including post training increases, and the existence of other training opportunities provided by the employer.
§ 680.820
Are there cost sharing requirements for local area incumbent worker training?
Yes. Under WIOA secs. 134(d)(4)(C) and 134(d)(4)(D)(i)-(iii), employers participating in incumbent worker training are required to pay the non-Federal share of the cost of providing training to their incumbent workers. The amount of the non-Federal share depends upon the limits established under WIOA secs. 134(d)(4)(ii)(C) and (D).
§ 680.830
May funds provided to employers for work-based training be used to assist, promote, or deter union organizing?
No. Funds provided to employers for work-based training, as described in this subpart, must not be used to directly or indirectly assist, promote, or deter union organizing.
§ 680.840
May funds provided to employers for work-based training and other work experiences be used to fill job openings as a result of a labor dispute?
No. Funds provided to employers for work-based training, as described in this subpart and in subpart A of this part, may not be used to directly or indirectly aid in the filling of a job opening which is vacant because the former occupant is on strike, or is being locked out in the course of a labor dispute, or the filling of which is otherwise an issue in a labor dispute involving a work stoppage.

# Subpart G—Supportive Services
§ 680.900
What are supportive services for adults and dislocated workers?
Supportive services for adults and dislocated workers are defined at WIOA sec. 3(59) and secs. 134(d)(2) and (3). Local WDBs, in consultation with the one-stop partners and other community service providers, must develop a policy on supportive services that ensures resource and service coordination in the local area. The policy should address procedures for referral to such services, including how such services will be funded when they are not otherwise available from other sources. The provision of accurate information about the availability of supportive services in the local area, as well as referral to such activities, is one of the career services that must be available to adults and dislocated workers through the one-stop delivery system. (WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(ix) and § 678.430 of this chapter). Local WDBs must ensure that needs-related payments are made in a manner consistent with §§ 680.930, 680.940, 680.950, 680.960, and 680.970. Supportive services are services that are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities authorized under WIOA sec. 134(c)(2) and (3). These services may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Linkages to community services;
(b) Assistance with transportation;
(c) Assistance with child care and dependent care;
(d) Assistance with housing;
(e) Needs-related payments, as described at §§ 680.930, 680.940, 680.950, 680.960, and 680.970;
(f) Assistance with educational testing;
(g) Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities;
(h) Legal aid services;
(i) Referrals to health care;
(j) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eyeglasses and protective eye gear;
(k) Assistance with books, fees, school supplies, and other necessary items for students enrolled in postsecondary education classes; and
(l) Payments and fees for employment and training-related applications, tests, and certifications.
§ 680.910
When may supportive services be provided to participants?
(a) Supportive services may only be provided to individuals who are:
(1) Participating in career or training services as defined in WIOA secs. 134(c)(2) and (3); and
(2) Unable to obtain supportive services through other programs providing such services.
(b) Supportive services only may be provided when they are necessary to enable individuals to participate in career service or training activities.
§ 680.920
Are there limits on the amount or duration of funds for supportive services?
(a) Local WDBs may establish limits on the provision of supportive services or provide the one-stop center with the authority to establish such limits, including a maximum amount of funding and maximum length of time for supportive services to be available to participants.
(b) Procedures also may be established to allow one-stop centers to grant exceptions to the limits established under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 680.930
What are needs-related payments?
Needs-related payments provide financial assistance to participants for the purpose of enabling them to participate in training and are a supportive service authorized by WIOA sec. 134(d)(3). Unlike other supportive services, in order to qualify for needs-related payments a participant must be enrolled in training.
§ 680.940
What are the eligibility requirements for adults to receive needs-related payments?
Adults must:
(a) Be unemployed;
(b) Not qualify for, or have ceased qualifying for, unemployment compensation; and
(c) Be enrolled in a program of training services under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3).
§ 680.950
What are the eligibility requirements for dislocated workers to receive needs-related payments?
To receive needs-related payments, a dislocated worker must:
(a) Be unemployed, and:
(1) Have ceased to qualify for unemployment compensation or trade readjustment allowance under TAA; and
(2) Be enrolled in a program of training services under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3) by the end of the 13th week after the most recent layoff that resulted in a determination of the worker's eligibility as a dislocated worker, or, if later, by the end of the 8th week after the worker is informed that a short-term layoff will exceed 6 months; or
(b) Be unemployed and did not qualify for unemployment compensation or trade readjustment assistance under TAA and be enrolled in a program of training services under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3).
§ 680.960
May needs-related payments be paid while a participant is waiting to start training classes?
Yes, payments may be provided if the participant has been accepted in a training program that will begin within 30 calendar days. The Governor may authorize local areas to extend the 30-day period to address appropriate circumstances.
§ 680.970
How is the level of needs-related payments determined?
(a) The payment level for adults must be established by the Local WDB. For statewide projects, the payment level for adults must be established by the State WDB.
(b) For dislocated workers, payments must not exceed the greater of either of the following levels:
(1) The applicable weekly level of the unemployment compensation benefit, for participants who were eligible for unemployment compensation as a result of the qualifying dislocation; or
(2) The poverty level for an equivalent period, for participants who did not qualify for unemployment compensation as a result of the qualifying layoff. The weekly payment level must be adjusted to reflect changes in total family income, as determined by Local WDB policies.
Pt. 681

# PART 681—YOUTH ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—Standing Youth Committees
Sec.
681.100
What is a standing youth committee?
681.110
Who is included on a standing youth committee?
681.120
What does a standing youth committee do?

# Subpart B—Eligibility for Youth Services
681.200
Who is eligible for youth services?
681.210
Who is an “out-of-school youth”?
681.220
Who is an “in-school youth”?
681.230
What does “school” refer to in the “not attending or attending any school” in the out-of-school and in-school eligibility criteria?
681.240
When do local youth programs verify dropout status?
681.250
Who does the low-income eligibility requirement apply to?
681.260
How does the Department define “high poverty area” for the purposes of the special regulation for low-income youth in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
681.270
May a local program use eligibility for free or reduced price lunches under the National School Lunch Program as a substitute for the income eligibility criteria under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
681.280
Is a youth with a disability eligible for youth services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act if his or her family income exceeds the income eligibility criteria?
681.290
How does the Department define the “basic skills deficient” criterion this part?
681.300
How does the Department define the “requires additional assistance to enter or complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion in this part for OSY?
681.310
How does the Department define the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion in this part for ISY?
681.320
Must youth participants enroll to participate in the youth program?

# Subpart C—Youth Program Design, Elements, and Parameters
681.400
What is the process used to select eligible youth providers?
681.410
Does the requirement that a State and local area expend at least 75 percent of youth funds to provide services to out-of-school youth apply to all youth funds?
681.420
How must Local Workforce Development Boards design Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act youth programs?
681.430
May youth participate in both the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) youth and adult programs concurrently, and how do local program operators track concurrent enrollment in the WIOA youth and adult programs?
681.440
How does a local youth program determine if an 18 to 24 year old is enrolled in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) youth program or the WIOA adult program?
681.450
For how long must a local Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act youth program serve a participant?
681.460
What services must local programs offer to youth participants?
681.470
Does the Department require local programs to use Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds for each of the 14 program elements?
681.480
What is a pre-apprenticeship program?
681.490
What is adult mentoring?
681.500
What is financial literacy education?
681.510
What is comprehensive guidance and counseling?
681.520
What are leadership development opportunities?
681.530
What are positive social and civic behaviors?
681.540
What is occupational skills training?
681.550
Are Individual Training Accounts permitted for youth participants?
681.560
What is entrepreneurial skills training and how is it taught?
681.570
What are supportive services for youth?
681.580
What are follow-up services for youth?
681.590
What is the work experience priority and how will local youth programs track the work experience priority?
681.600
What are work experiences?
681.610
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act require Local Workforce Development Boards to offer summer employment opportunities in the local youth program?
681.620
How are summer employment opportunities administered?
681.630
What does education offered concurrently with and in the same context as workforce preparation activities and training for a specific occupation or occupational cluster mean?
681.640
Are incentive payments to youth participants permitted?
681.650
How can parents, youth, and other members of the community get involved
in the design and implementation of local youth programs?

# Subpart D—One-Stop Services to Youth
681.700
What is the connection between the youth program and the one-stop delivery system?
681.710
Do Local Workforce Development Boards have the flexibility to offer services to area youth who are not eligible under the youth program through the one-stop centers?

# Authority:
Secs. 107, 121, 123, 129, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56398, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Standing Youth Committees
§ 681.100
What is a standing youth committee?
The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) eliminates the requirement for Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs) to establish a youth council. However, the Department encourages Local WDBs to establish a standing committee to provide information and to assist with planning, operational, oversight, and other issues relating to the provision of services to youth. If the Local WDB does not designate a standing youth committee, it retains responsibility for all aspects of youth formula programs.
§ 681.110
Who is included on a standing youth committee?
(a) If a Local WDB decides to form a standing youth committee, the committee must include a member of the Local WDB, who chairs the committee, members of community-based organizations with a demonstrated record of success in serving eligible youth, and other individuals with appropriate expertise and experience who are not members of the Local WDB.
(b) The committee must reflect the needs of the local area. The committee members appointed for their experience and expertise may bring their expertise to help the committee address the employment, training, education, human and supportive service needs of eligible youth including out-of-school youth (OSY). Members may represent agencies such as secondary and postsecondary education, training, health, disability, mental health, housing, public assistance, and justice, or be representatives of philanthropic or economic and community development organizations, and employers. The committee may also include parents, participants, and youth.
(c) A Local WDB may designate an existing entity such as an effective youth council as the standing youth committee if it fulfills the requirements above in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 681.120
What does a standing youth committee do?
Under the direction of the Local WDB, a standing youth committee may:
(a) Recommend policy direction to the Local WDB for the design, development, and implementation of programs that benefit all youth;
(b) Recommend the design of a comprehensive community workforce development system to ensure a full range of services and opportunities for all youth, including disconnected youth;
(c) Recommend ways to leverage resources and coordinate services among schools, public programs, and community-based organizations serving youth;
(d) Recommend ways to coordinate youth services and recommend eligible youth service providers;
(e) Provide on-going leadership and support for continuous quality improvement for local youth programs;
(f) Assist with planning, operational, and other issues relating to the provision of services to youth; and
(g) If so delegated by the Local WDB after consultation with the chief elected official (CEO), oversee eligible youth providers, as well as other youth program oversight responsibilities.

# Subpart B—Eligibility for Youth Services
§ 681.200
Who is eligible for youth services?
Both in-school youth (ISY) and OSY are eligible for youth services.
§ 681.210
Who is an “out-of-school youth”?
An OSY is an individual who is:
(a) Not attending any school (as defined under State law);
(b) Not younger than age 16 or older than age 24 at time of enrollment. Because age eligibility is based on age at enrollment, participants may continue to receive services beyond the age of 24 once they are enrolled in the program; and
(c) One or more of the following:
(1) A school dropout;
(2) A youth who is within the age of compulsory school attendance, but has not attended school for at least the most recent complete school year calendar quarter. School year calendar quarter is based on how a local school district defines its school year quarters. In cases where schools do not use quarters, local programs must use calendar year quarters;
(3) A recipient of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent who is a low-income individual and is either basic skills deficient or an English language learner;
(4) An offender;
(5) A homeless individual aged 16 to 24 who meets the criteria defined in sec. 41403(6) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2(6)), a homeless child or youth aged 16 to 24 who meets the criteria defined in sec. 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)) or a runaway;
(6) An individual in foster care or who has aged out of the foster care system or who has attained 16 years of age and left foster care for kinship guardianship or adoption, a child eligible for assistance under sec. 477 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 677), or in an out-of-home placement;
(7) An individual who is pregnant or parenting;
(8) An individual with a disability; or
(9) A low-income individual who requires additional assistance to enter or complete an educational program or to secure or hold employment.
§ 681.220
Who is an “in-school youth”?
An ISY is an individual who is:
(a) Attending school (as defined by State law), including secondary and postsecondary school;
(b) Not younger than age 14 or (unless an individual with a disability who is attending school under State law) older than age 21 at time of enrollment. Because age eligibility is based on age at enrollment, participants may continue to receive services beyond the age of 21 once they are enrolled in the program;
(c) A low-income individual; and
(d) One or more of the following:
(1) Basic skills deficient;
(2) An English language learner;
(3) An offender;
(4) A homeless individual aged 14 to 21 who meets the criteria defined in sec. 41403(6) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2(6)), a homeless child or youth aged 14 to 21 who meets the criteria defined in sec. 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)), or a runaway;
(5) An individual in foster care or who has aged out of the foster care system or who has attained 16 years of age and left foster care for kinship guardianship or adoption, a child eligible for assistance under sec. 477 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 677), or in an out-of-home placement;
(6) An individual who is pregnant or parenting;
(7) An individual with a disability; or
(8) An individual who requires additional assistance to complete an educational program or to secure or hold employment.
§ 681.230
What does “school” refer to in the “not attending or attending any school” in the out-of-school and in-school eligibility criteria?
In general, the applicable State law for secondary and postsecondary institutions defines “school.” However, for purposes of WIOA, the Department does not consider providers of adult education under title II of WIOA, YouthBuild programs, the Job Corps program, high school equivalency programs, or dropout re-engagement programs to be schools. Therefore, in all cases except the one provided below, WIOA youth programs may consider a youth to be an OSY for purposes of WIOA youth program eligibility if he or she attend adult education provided
under title II of WIOA, YouthBuild, Job Corps, high school equivalency programs, or dropout re-engagement programs regardless of the funding source of those programs. Youth attending high school equivalency programs funded by the public K-12 school system who are classified by the school system as still enrolled in school are an exception; they are considered ISY.
§ 681.240
When do local youth programs verify dropout status?
Local WIOA youth programs must verify a youth's dropout status at the time of WIOA youth program enrollment. An individual who is out of school at the time of enrollment, and subsequently placed in any school, is an OSY for the purposes of the 75 percent expenditure requirement for OSY throughout his/her participation in the program.
§ 681.250
Who does the low-income eligibility requirement apply to?
(a) For OSY, only those youth who are the recipient of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent and are either basic skills deficient or an English language learner, and youth who require additional assistance to enter or complete an educational program or to secure or hold employment, must be low-income. All other OSY meeting OSY eligibility under § 681.210(c)(1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) are not required to be low-income.
(b) All ISY must be low-income to meet the ISY eligibility criteria, except those that fall under the low-income exception.
(c) WIOA allows a low-income exception where five percent of WIOA youth may be participants who ordinarily would be required to be low-income for eligibility purposes and meet all other eligibility criteria for WIOA youth except the low-income criteria. A program must calculate the five percent based on the percent of newly enrolled youth in the local area's WIOA youth program in a given program year who would ordinarily be required to meet the low-income criteria.
(d) In addition to the criteria in the definition of “low-income individual” in WIOA sec. 3(36), a youth is low-income if he or she receives or is eligible to receive a free or reduced price lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
or if he or she lives in a high poverty area.
§ 681.260
How does the Department define “high poverty area” for the purposes of the special regulation for low-income youth in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
A youth who lives in a high poverty area is automatically considered to be a low-income individual. A high poverty area is a Census tract, a set of contiguous Census tracts, an American Indian Reservation, Oklahoma Tribal Statistical Area (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), Alaska Native Village Statistical Area or Alaska Native Regional Corporation Area, Native Hawaiian Homeland Area, or other tribal land as defined by the Secretary in guidance or county that has a poverty rate of at least 25 percent as set every 5 years using American Community Survey 5-Year data.
§ 681.270
May a local program use eligibility for free or reduced price lunches under the National School Lunch Program as a substitute for the income eligibility criteria under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
Yes, WIOA sec. 3(36) defines a low-income individual to include an individual who receives (or is eligible to receive) a free or reduced price lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.
§ 681.280
Is a youth with a disability eligible for youth services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act if his or her family income exceeds the income eligibility criteria?
Yes, for an individual with a disability, income level for eligibility purposes is based on the individual's own income rather than his or her family's income. WIOA sec. 3(36)(A)(vi) states that an individual with a disability whose own income meets the low-income definition in clause (ii) (income that does not exceed the higher of the poverty line or 70 percent of the lower living standard income level), but who is a member of a family whose income
exceeds this income requirement is eligible for youth services. Furthermore, only ISY with a disability must be low income. OSY with a disability are not required to be low-income.
§ 681.290
How does the Department define the “basic skills deficient” criterion in this part?
(a) As used in § 681.210(c)(3), a youth is “basic skills deficient” if he or she:
(1) Have English reading, writing, or computing skills at or below the 8th grade level on a generally accepted standardized test; or
(2) Are unable to compute or solve problems, or read, write, or speak English at a level necessary to function on the job, in the individual's family, or in society.
(b) The State or Local WDB must establish its policy on paragraph (a)(2) of this section in its respective State or local plan.
(c) In assessing basic skills, local programs must use assessment instruments that are valid and appropriate for the target population, and must provide reasonable accommodation in the assessment process, if necessary, for individuals with disabilities.
§ 681.300
How does the Department define the “requires additional assistance to enter or complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion in this part for OSY?
Either the State or the local level may establish definitions and eligibility documentation requirements for the “requires additional assistance to enter or complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion of § 681.210(c)(9). In cases where the State WDB establishes State policy on this criterion, the State WDB must include the definition in the State Plan. In cases where the State WDB does not establish a policy, the Local WDB must establish a policy in its local plan if using this criterion.
§ 681.310
How does the Department define the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion in this part for ISY?
(a) Either the State or the local level may establish definitions and eligibility documentation requirements for the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion of § 681.220(d)(8). In cases where the State WDB establishes State policy on this criterion, the State WDB must include the definition in the State Plan. In cases where the State WDB does not establish a policy, the Local WDB must establish a policy in its local plan if using this criterion.
(b) In each local area, not more than five percent of the ISY newly enrolled in a given program year may be eligible based on the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program or to secure or hold employment” criterion.
§ 681.320
Must youth participants enroll to participate in the youth program?
(a) Yes, to participate in youth programs, participants must enroll in the WIOA youth program.
(b) In order to be a participant in the WIOA youth program, all of the following must occur:
(1) An eligibility determination;
(2) The provision of an objective assessment;
(3) Development of an individual service strategy; and
(4) Participation in any of the 14 WIOA youth program elements.

# Subpart C—Youth Program Design, Elements, and Parameters
§ 681.400
What is the process used to select eligible youth service providers?
(a) The grant recipient/fiscal agent has the option to provide directly some or all of the youth workforce investment activities.
(b) However, as provided in WIOA sec. 123, if a Local WDB chooses to award grants or contracts to youth service providers to carry out some or all of
the youth workforce investment activities, the Local WDB must award such grants or contracts on a competitive basis, subject to the exception explained in paragraph (b)(4) of this section:
(1) The Local WDB must identify youth service providers based on criteria established in the State Plan (including such quality criteria established by the Governor for a training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential) and take into consideration the ability of the provider to meet performance accountability measures based on the primary indicators of performance for youth programs.
(2) The Local WDB must procure the youth service providers in accordance with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900, in addition to applicable State and local procurement laws.
(3) If the Local WDB establishes a standing youth committee under § 681.100 it may assign the committee the function of selecting of grants or contracts.
(4) Where the Local WDB determines there are an insufficient number of eligible youth providers in the local area, such as a rural area, the Local WDB may award grants or contracts on a sole source basis.
§ 681.410
Does the requirement that a State and local area expend at least 75 percent of youth funds to provide services to out-of-school youth apply to all youth funds?
Yes. The 75 percent requirement applies to both statewide youth activities funds and local youth funds with 2 exceptions.
(a) Only statewide funds spent on direct services to youth are subject to the OSY expenditure requirement. Funds spent on statewide youth activities that do not provide direct services to youth, such as most of the required statewide youth activities listed in WIOA sec. 129(b)(1), are not subject to the OSY expenditure requirement. For example, administrative costs, monitoring, and technical assistance are not subject to OSY expenditure requirement; while funds spent on direct services to youth such as statewide demonstration projects, are subject to the OSY expenditure requirement.
(b) For a State that receives a small State minimum allotment under WIOA sec. 127(b)(1)(C)(iv)(II) for youth or WIOA sec. 132(b)(1)(B)(iv)(II) for adults, the State may submit a request to the Secretary to decrease the percentage to not less than 50 percent for a local area in the State, and the Secretary may approve such a request for that program year, if the State meets the following requirements:
(1) After an analysis of the ISY and OSY populations in the local area, the State determines that the local area will be unable to use at least 75 percent of the local area WIOA youth funds to serve OSY due to a low number of OSY; and
(2) The State submits to the Secretary, for the local area, a request including a proposed percentage decreased to not less than 50 percent to provide workforce investment activities for OSY.
(c) In the exercise of discretion afforded by WIOA sec. 129(a)(4), the Secretary has determined that requests to decrease the percentage of funds used to provide youth workforce investment activities for OSY will not be granted to States that received 90 percent of the allotment percentage for the past year. Therefore, when the Secretary receives such a request from a State, the request will be denied.
(d) For local area funds, the administrative costs of carrying out local workforce investment activities described in WIOA sec. 128(b)(4) are not subject to the OSY expenditure requirement. All other local area youth funds beyond the administrative costs are subject to the OSY expenditure requirement.
§ 681.420
How must Local Workforce Development Boards design Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act youth programs?
(a) The design framework services of local youth programs must:
(1) Provide for an objective assessment of each youth participant that meets the requirements of WIOA sec. 129(c)(1)(A), and includes a review of the academic and occupational skill levels, as well as the service needs and
strengths, of each youth for the purpose of identifying appropriate services and career pathways for participants and informing the individual service strategy;
(2) Develop, and update as needed, an individual service strategy based on the needs of each youth participant that is directly linked to one or more indicators of performance described in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii), that identifies career pathways that include education and employment goals, that considers career planning and the results of the objective assessment and that prescribes achievement objectives and services for the participant; and
(3) Provide case management of youth participants, including follow-up services.
(b) The local plan must describe the design framework for youth programs in the local area, and how the 14 program elements required in § 681.460 are to be made available within that framework.
(c) Local WDBs must ensure appropriate links to entities that will foster the participation of eligible local area youth. Such links may include connections to:
(1) Local area justice and law enforcement officials;
(2) Local public housing authorities;
(3) Local education agencies;
(4) Local human service agencies;
(5) WIOA title II adult education providers;
(6) Local disability-serving agencies and providers and health and mental health providers;
(7) Job Corps representatives; and
(8) Representatives of other area youth initiatives, such as YouthBuild, and including those that serve homeless youth and other public and private youth initiatives.
(d) Local WDBs must ensure that WIOA youth service providers meet the referral requirements in WIOA sec. 129(c)(3)(A) for all youth participants, including:
(1) Providing these participants with information about the full array of applicable or appropriate services available through the Local WDBs or other eligible providers, or one-stop partners; and
(2) Referring these participants to appropriate training and educational programs that have the capacity to serve them either on a sequential or concurrent basis.
(e) If a youth applies for enrollment in a program of workforce investment activities and either does not meet the enrollment requirements for that program or cannot be served by that program, the eligible training provider of that program must ensure that the youth is referred for further assessment, if necessary, or referred to appropriate programs to meet the skills and training needs of the youth.
(f) In order to meet the basic skills and training needs of applicants who do not meet the eligibility requirements of a particular program or who cannot be served by the program, each youth provider must ensure that these youth are referred:
(1) For further assessment, as necessary; and
(2) To appropriate programs, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(g) Local WDBs must ensure that parents, youth participants, and other members of the community with experience relating to youth programs are involved in both the design and implementation of its youth programs.
(h) The objective assessment required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or the individual service strategy required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is not required if the program provider determines that it is appropriate to use a recent objective assessment or individual service strategy that was developed under another education or training program.
(i) The Local WDBs may implement a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy for program elements described at § 681.460, for which the Local WDB may reserve and use not more than 10 percent of the total funds allocated to the local area under WIOA sec. 128(b). For additional regulations on WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies, see § 683.500 of this chapter.
§ 681.430
May youth participate in both the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) youth and adult programs concurrently, and how do local program operators track concurrent enrollment in the WIOA youth and adult programs?
(a) Yes, individuals who meet the respective program eligibility requirements may participate in adult and youth programs concurrently. Such individuals must be eligible under the youth or adult eligibility criteria applicable to the services received. Local program operators may determine, for these individuals, the appropriate level and balance of services under the youth and adult programs.
(b) Local program operators must identify and track the funding streams which pay the costs of services provided to individuals who are participating in youth and adult programs concurrently, and ensure no duplication of services.
(c) Individuals who meet the respective program eligibility requirements for WIOA youth title I and title II may participate in title I youth and title II concurrently.
§ 681.440
How does a local youth program determine if an 18 to 24 year old is enrolled in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) youth program or the WIOA adult program?
A local program must determine the appropriate program for the participant based on the service needs of the participant and if the participant is career-ready based on an assessment of their occupational skills, prior work experience, employability, and the participant's needs.
§ 681.450
For how long must a local Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act youth program serve a participant?
Local youth programs must provide service to a participant for the amount of time necessary to ensure successful preparation to enter postsecondary education and/or unsubsidized employment. While there is no minimum or maximum time a youth can participate in the WIOA youth program, programs must link participation to the individual service strategy and not the timing of youth service provider contracts or program years.
§ 681.460
What services must local programs offer to youth participants?
(a) Local programs must make each of the following 14 services available to youth participants:
(1) Tutoring, study skills training, instruction and evidence-based dropout prevention and recovery strategies that lead to completion of the requirements for a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (including a recognized certificate of attendance or similar document for individuals with disabilities) or for a recognized postsecondary credential;
(2) Alternative secondary school services, or dropout recovery services, as appropriate;
(3) Paid and unpaid work experiences that have academic and occupational education as a component of the work experience, which may include the following types of work experiences:
(i) Summer employment opportunities and other employment opportunities available throughout the school year;
(ii) Pre-apprenticeship programs;
(iii) Internships and job shadowing; and
(iv) On-the-job training opportunities;
(4) Occupational skill training, which includes priority consideration for training programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials that align with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area involved, if the Local WDB determines that the programs meet the quality criteria described in WIOA sec. 123;
(5) Education offered concurrently with and in the same context as workforce preparation activities and training for a specific occupation or occupational cluster;
(6) Leadership development opportunities, including community service and peer-centered activities encouraging responsibility and other positive social and civic behaviors;
(7) Supportive services, including the services listed in § 681.570;
(8) Adult mentoring for a duration of at least 12 months, that may occur
both during and after program participation;
(9) Follow-up services for not less than 12 months after the completion of participation, as provided in § 681.580;
(10) Comprehensive guidance and counseling, which may include drug and alcohol abuse counseling, as well as referrals to counseling, as appropriate to the needs of the individual youth;
(11) Financial literacy education;
(12) Entrepreneurial skills training;
(13) Services that provide labor market and employment information about in-demand industry sectors or occupations available in the local area, such as career awareness, career counseling, and career exploration services; and
(14) Activities that help youth prepare for and transition to postsecondary education and training.
(b) Local programs have the discretion to determine what specific program services a youth participant receives, based on each participant's objective assessment and individual service strategy. Local programs are not required to provide every program service to each participant.
(c) When available, the Department encourages local programs to partner with existing local, State, or national entities that can provide program element(s) at no cost to the local youth program.
§ 681.470
Does the Department require local programs to use Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds for each of the 14 program elements?
No. The Department does not require local programs to use WIOA youth funds for each of the program elements. Local programs may leverage partner resources to provide some of the readily available program elements. However, the local area must ensure that if a program element is not funded with WIOA title I youth funds, the local program has an agreement in place with a partner organization to ensure that the program element will be offered. The Local WDB must ensure that the program element is closely connected and coordinated with the WIOA youth program.
§ 681.480
What is a pre-apprenticeship program?
A pre-apprenticeship is a program designed to prepare individuals to enter and succeed in an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50
et. seq.
) (referred to in this part as a “registered apprenticeship” or “registered apprenticeship program”) and includes the following elements:
(a) Training and curriculum that aligns with the skill needs of employers in the economy of the State or region involved;
(b) Access to educational and career counseling and other supportive services, directly or indirectly;
(c) Hands-on, meaningful learning activities that are connected to education and training activities, such as exploring career options, and understanding how the skills acquired through coursework can be applied toward a future career;
(d) Opportunities to attain at least one industry-recognized credential; and
(e) A partnership with one or more registered apprenticeship programs that assists in placing individuals who complete the pre-apprenticeship program in a registered apprenticeship program.
§ 681.490
What is adult mentoring?
(a) Adult mentoring for youth must:
(1) Last at least 12 months and may take place both during the program and following exit from the program;
(2) Be a formal relationship between a youth participant and an adult mentor that includes structured activities where the mentor offers guidance, support, and encouragement to develop the competence and character of the mentee; and
(3) While group mentoring activities and mentoring through electronic means are allowable as part of the mentoring activities, at a minimum, the local youth program must match the youth with an individual mentor with whom the youth interacts on a face-to-face basis.
(b) Mentoring may include workplace mentoring where the local program
matches a youth participant with an employer or employee of a company.
§ 681.500
What is financial literacy education?
The financial literacy education program element may include activities which:
(a) Support the ability of participants to create budgets, initiate checking and savings accounts at banks, and make informed financial decisions;
(b) Support participants in learning how to effectively manage spending, credit, and debt, including student loans, consumer credit, and credit cards;
(c) Teach participants about the significance of credit reports and credit scores; what their rights are regarding their credit and financial information; how to determine the accuracy of a credit report and how to correct inaccuracies; and how to improve or maintain good credit;
(d) Support a participant's ability to understand, evaluate, and compare financial products, services, and opportunities and to make informed financial decisions;
(e) Educate participants about identity theft, ways to protect themselves from identify theft, and how to resolve cases of identity theft and in other ways understand their rights and protections related to personal identity and financial data;
(f) Support activities that address the particular financial literacy needs of non-English speakers, including providing the support through the development and distribution of multilingual financial literacy and education materials;
(g) Support activities that address the particular financial literacy needs of youth with disabilities, including connecting them to benefits planning and work incentives counseling;
(h) Provide financial education that is age appropriate, timely, and provides opportunities to put lessons into practice, such as by access to safe and affordable financial products that enable money management and savings; and
(i) Implement other approaches to help participants gain the knowledge, skills, and confidence to make informed financial decisions that enable them to attain greater financial health and stability by using high quality, age-appropriate, and relevant strategies and channels, including, where possible, timely and customized information, guidance, tools, and instruction.
§ 681.510
What is comprehensive guidance and counseling?
Comprehensive guidance and counseling provides individualized counseling to participants. This includes drug and alcohol abuse counseling, mental health counseling, and referral to partner programs, as appropriate. When referring participants to necessary counseling that cannot be provided by the local youth program or its service providers, the local youth program must coordinate with the organization it refers to in order to ensure continuity of service.
§ 681.520
What are leadership development opportunities?
Leadership development opportunities are opportunities that encourage responsibility, confidence, employability, self-determination, and other positive social behaviors such as:
(a) Exposure to postsecondary educational possibilities;
(b) Community and service learning projects;
(c) Peer-centered activities, including peer mentoring and tutoring;
(d) Organizational and team work training, including team leadership training;
(e) Training in decision-making, including determining priorities and problem solving;
(f) Citizenship training, including life skills training such as parenting and work behavior training;
(g) Civic engagement activities which promote the quality of life in a community; and
(h) Other leadership activities that place youth in a leadership role such as serving on youth leadership committees, such as a Standing Youth Committee.
§ 681.530
What are positive social and civic behaviors?
Positive social and civic behaviors are outcomes of leadership opportunities, which are incorporated by local programs as part of their menu of services. Positive social and civic behaviors focus on areas that may include the following:
(a) Positive attitudinal development;
(b) Self-esteem building;
(c) Openness to work with individuals from diverse backgrounds;
(d) Maintaining healthy lifestyles, including being alcohol- and drug-free;
(e) Maintaining positive social relationships with responsible adults and peers, and contributing to the well-being of one's community, including voting;
(f) Maintaining a commitment to learning and academic success;
(g) Avoiding delinquency; and
(h) Positive job attitudes and work skills.
§ 681.540
What is occupational skills training?
(a) The Department defines occupational skills training as an organized program of study that provides specific vocational skills that lead to proficiency in performing actual tasks and technical functions required by certain occupational fields at entry, intermediate, or advanced levels. Local areas must give priority consideration to training programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials that align with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area. Such training must:
(1) Be outcome-oriented and focused on an occupational goal specified in the individual service strategy;
(2) Be of sufficient duration to impart the skills needed to meet the occupational goal; and
(3) Lead to the attainment of a recognized postsecondary credential.
(b) The chosen occupational skills training must meet the quality standards in WIOA sec. 123.
§ 681.550
Are Individual Training Accounts permitted for youth participants?
Yes. In order to enhance individual participant choice in their education and training plans and provide flexibility to service providers, the Department allows WIOA Individual Training Accounts (ITAs) for OSY, ages 16 to 24 using WIOA youth funds when appropriate.
§ 681.560
What is entrepreneurial skills training and how is it taught?
Entrepreneurial skills training provides the basics of starting and operating a small business.
(a) Such training must develop the skills associated with entrepreneurship. Such skills may include, but are not limited to, the ability to:
(1) Take initiative;
(2) Creatively seek out and identify business opportunities;
(3) Develop budgets and forecast resource needs;
(4) Understand various options for acquiring capital and the trade-offs associated with each option; and
(5) Communicate effectively and market oneself and one's ideas.
(b) Approaches to teaching youth entrepreneurial skills include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Entrepreneurship education that provides an introduction to the values and basics of starting and running a business. Entrepreneurship education programs often guide youth through the development of a business plan and also may include simulations of business start-up and operation.
(2) Enterprise development which provides supports and services that incubate and help youth develop their own businesses. Enterprise development programs go beyond entrepreneurship education by helping youth access small loans or grants that are needed to begin business operation and by providing more individualized attention to the development of viable business ideas.
(3) Experiential programs that provide youth with experience in the day-to-day operation of a business. These programs may involve the development of a youth-run business that young people participating in the program work in and manage. Or, they may facilitate placement in apprentice or internship positions with adult entrepreneurs in the community.
§ 681.570
What are supportive services for youth?
Supportive services for youth, as defined in WIOA sec. 3(59), are services that enable an individual to participate in WIOA activities. These services include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Linkages to community services;
(b) Assistance with transportation;
(c) Assistance with child care and dependent care;
(d) Assistance with housing;
(e) Needs-related payments;
(f) Assistance with educational testing;
(g) Reasonable accommodations for youth with disabilities;
(h) Legal aid services;
(i) Referrals to health care;
(j) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eyeglasses and protective eye gear;
(k) Assistance with books, fees, school supplies, and other necessary items for students enrolled in postsecondary education classes; and
(l) Payments and fees for employment and training-related applications, tests, and certifications.
§ 681.580
What are follow-up services for youth?
(a) Follow-up services are critical services provided following a youth's exit from the program to help ensure the youth is successful in employment and/or postsecondary education and training. Follow-up services may include regular contact with a youth participant's employer, including assistance in addressing work-related problems that arise.
(b) Follow-up services for youth also may include the following program elements:
(1) Supportive services;
(2) Adult mentoring;
(3) Financial literacy education;
(4) Services that provide labor market and employment information about in-demand industry sectors or occupations available in the local area, such as career awareness, career counseling, and career exploration services; and
(5) Activities that help youth prepare for and transition to postsecondary education and training.
(c) All youth participants must be offered an opportunity to receive follow-up services that align with their individual service strategies. Furthermore, follow-up services must be provided to all participants for a minimum of 12 months unless the participant declines to receive follow-up services or the participant cannot be located or contacted. Follow-up services may be provided beyond 12 months at the State or Local WDB's discretion. The types of services provided and the duration of services must be determined based on the needs of the individual and therefore, the type and intensity of follow-up services may differ for each participant. Follow-up services must include more than only a contact attempted or made for securing documentation in order to report a performance outcome.
§ 681.590
What is the work experience priority and how will local youth programs track the work experience priority?
(a) Local youth programs must expend not less than 20 percent of the funds allocated to them to provide ISY and OSY with paid and unpaid work experiences that fall under the categories listed in § 681.460(a)(3) and further defined in § 681.600.
(b) Local WIOA youth programs must track program funds spent on paid and unpaid work experiences, including wages and staff costs for the development and management of work experiences, and report such expenditures as part of the local WIOA youth financial reporting. The percentage of funds spent on work experience is calculated based on the total local area youth funds expended for work experience rather than calculated separately for ISY and OSY. Local area administrative costs are not subject to the 20 percent minimum work experience expenditure requirement.
§ 681.600
What are work experiences?
(a) Work experiences are a planned, structured learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited period of time. Work experience may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate. A work experience may take place in the private for-profit sector, the non-profit sector, or the public sector.
Labor standards apply in any work experience where an employee/employer relationship, as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act or applicable State law, exists. Consistent with § 680.840 of this chapter, funds provided for work experiences may not be used to directly or indirectly aid in the filling of a job opening that is vacant because the former occupant is on strike, or is being locked out in the course of a labor dispute, or the filling of which is otherwise an issue in a labor dispute involving a work stoppage. Work experiences provide the youth participant with opportunities for career exploration and skill development.
(b) Work experiences must include academic and occupational education. The educational component may occur concurrently or sequentially with the work experience. Further academic and occupational education may occur inside or outside the work site.
(c) The types of work experiences include the following categories:
(1) Summer employment opportunities and other employment opportunities available throughout the school year;
(2) Pre-apprenticeship programs;
(3) Internships and job shadowing; and
(4) On-the-job training (OJT) opportunities as defined in WIOA sec. 3(44) and in § 680.700 of this chapter.
§ 681.610
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act require Local Workforce Development Boards to offer summer employment opportunities in the local youth program?
No, WIOA does not require Local WDBs to offer summer youth employment opportunities as summer employment is no longer its own program element under WIOA. However, WIOA does require Local WDBs to offer work experience opportunities using at least 20 percent of their funding, which may include summer employment.
§ 681.620
How are summer employment opportunities administered?
Summer employment opportunities are a component of the work experience program element. If youth service providers administer the work experience program element, they must be selected by the Local WDB according to the requirements of WIOA sec. 123 and § 681.400, based on criteria contained in the State Plan. However, the summer employment administrator does not need to select the employers who are providing the employment opportunities through a competitive process.
§ 681.630
What does education offered concurrently with and in the same context as workforce preparation activities and training for a specific occupation or occupational cluster mean?
This program element reflects an integrated education and training model and describes how workforce preparation activities, basic academic skills, and hands-on occupational skills training are to be taught within the same time frame and connected to training in a specific occupation, occupational cluster, or career pathway.
§ 681.640
Are incentive payments to youth participants permitted?
Yes, incentive payments to youth participants are permitted for recognition and achievement directly tied to training activities and work experiences. The local program must have written policies and procedures in place governing the award of incentives and must ensure that such incentive payments are:
(a) Tied to the goals of the specific program;
(b) Outlined in writing before the commencement of the program that may provide incentive payments;
(c) Align with the local program's organizational policies; and
(d) Are in accordance with the requirements contained in 2 CFR part 200.
§ 681.650
How can parents, youth, and other members of the community get involved in the design and implementation of local youth programs?
Local WDBs and programs must provide opportunities for parents, participants, and other members of the community with experience working with youth to be involved in the design and implementation of youth programs. Parents, youth participants, and other
members of the community can get involved in a number of ways, including serving on youth standing committees, if they exist and they are appointed by the Local WDB. They also can get involved by serving as mentors, serving as tutors, and providing input into the design and implementation of other program design elements. Local WDBs also must make opportunities available to successful participants to volunteer to help participants as mentors, tutors, or in other activities.

# Subpart D—One-Stop Services to Youth
§ 681.700
What is the connection between the youth program and the one-stop delivery system?
(a) WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(i) requires that the youth program function as a required one-stop partner and fulfill the roles and responsibilities of a one-stop partner described in WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(A).
(b) In addition to the provisions of part 678 of this chapter, connections between the youth program and the one-stop delivery system may include those that facilitate:
(1) The coordination and provision of youth activities;
(2) Linkages to the job market and employers;
(3) Access for eligible youth to the information and services required in § 681.460;
(4) Services for non-eligible youth such as basic labor exchange services, other self-service activities such as job searches, career exploration, use of one-stop center resources, and referral as appropriate; and
(5) Other activities described in WIOA sec. 129(b)-(c).
(c) Local WDBs must either colocate WIOA youth program staff at one-stop centers and/or ensure one-stop centers and staff are trained to serve youth and equipped to advise youth to increase youth access to services and connect youth to the program that best aligns with their needs.
§ 681.710
Do Local Workforce Development Boards have the flexibility to offer services to area youth who are not eligible under the youth program through the one-stop centers?
Yes. However, Local WDBs must ensure one-stop centers fund services for non-eligible youth through programs authorized to provide services to such youth. For example, one-stop centers may provide basic labor exchange services under the Wagner-Peyser Act to any youth.
Pt. 682

# PART 682—STATEWIDE ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—General Description
Sec.
682.100
What are the statewide employment and training activities under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
682.110
How are statewide employment and training activities funded?

# Subpart B—Required and Allowable Statewide Employment and Training Activities
682.200
What are required statewide employment and training activities?
682.210
What are allowable statewide employment and training activities?
682.220
What are States' responsibilities in regard to evaluations?

# Subpart C—Rapid Response Activities
682.300
What is rapid response, and what is its purpose?
682.302
Under what circumstances must rapid response services be delivered?
682.305
How does the Department define the term “mass layoff” for the purposes of rapid response?
682.310
Who is responsible for carrying out rapid response activities?
682.320
What is layoff aversion, and what are appropriate layoff aversion strategies and activities?
682.330
What rapid response activities are required?
682.340
May other activities be undertaken as part of rapid response?
682.350
What is meant by “provision of additional assistance” in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
682.360
What rapid response, layoff aversion, or other information will States be required to report to the Employment and Training Administration?
682.370
What are the statewide activities for which rapid response funds remaining unobligated after the first program year for which the funds were allotted may be used by the State?

# Authority:
Secs. 129, 134, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56406, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Description
§ 682.100
What are the statewide employment and training activities under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
Statewide employment and training activities include those activities for adults and dislocated workers, as described in WIOA sec. 134(a), and statewide youth activities, as described in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) sec. 129(b). They include both required and allowable activities. In accordance with the requirements of this subpart, the State may develop policies and strategies for use of statewide employment and training funds. Descriptions of these policies and strategies must be included in the State Plan.
§ 682.110
How are statewide employment and training activities funded?
(a) Except for the statewide rapid response activities described in paragraph (c) of this section, statewide employment and training activities are supported by funds reserved by the Governor under WIOA sec. 128(a).
(b) Funds reserved by the Governor for statewide workforce investment activities may be combined and used for any of the activities authorized in WIOA sec. 129(b), 134(a)(2)(B), or 134(a)(3)(A) (which are described in §§ 682.200 and 682.210), regardless of whether the funds were allotted through the youth, adult, or dislocated worker funding streams.
(c) Funds for statewide rapid response activities are reserved under WIOA sec.133(a)(2) and may be used to provide the activities authorized at WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(A) (which are described in §§ 682.310 through 682.330).

# Subpart B—Required and Allowable Statewide Employment and Training Activities
§ 682.200
What are required statewide employment and training activities?
Required statewide employment and training activities are:
(a) Required rapid response activities, as described in § 682.310;
(b) Disseminating by various means, as provided by WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(B):
(1) The State list of eligible training providers (including those providing non-traditional training services), for adults and dislocated workers and eligible training providers of registered apprenticeship programs;
(2) Information identifying eligible providers of on-the-job training (OJT), customized training, incumbent worker training (see § 680.790 of this chapter), internships, paid or unpaid work experience opportunities (see § 680.180 of this chapter) and transitional jobs (see § 680.190 of this chapter);
(3) Information on effective outreach and partnerships with business;
(4) Information on effective service delivery strategies and promising practices to serve workers and job seekers;
(5) Performance information and information on the cost of attendance, including tuition and fees, consistent with the requirements of §§ 680.490 and 680.530 of this chapter;
(6) A list of eligible providers of youth activities as described in WIOA sec. 123; and
(7) Information of physical and programmatic accessibility for individuals with disabilities;
(c) States must assure that the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section is widely available;
(d) Conducting evaluations under WIOA sec. 116(e), consistent with the requirements found under § 682.220;
(e) Providing technical assistance to State entities and agencies, local areas, and one-stop partners in carrying out activities described in the State Plan, including coordination and alignment of data systems used to carry out the requirements of this Act;
(f) Assisting local areas, one-stop operators, one-stop partners, and eligible providers, including development of staff, including staff training to provide opportunities for individuals with barriers to employment to enter in-demand industry sectors or occupations and nontraditional occupations, and the development of exemplary program activities;
(g) Assisting local areas for carrying out the regional planning and service delivery efforts required under WIOA sec. 106(c);
(h) Assisting local areas by providing information on and support for the effective development, convening, and implementation of industry and sector partnerships;
(i) Providing technical assistance to local areas that fail to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under § 677.210 of this chapter;
(j) Carrying out monitoring and oversight of activities for services to youth, adults, and dislocated workers under WIOA title I, and which may include a review comparing the services provided to male and female youth;
(k) Providing additional assistance to local areas that have a high concentration of eligible youth; and
(l) Operating a fiscal and management accountability information system, based on guidelines established by the Secretary.
§ 682.210
What are allowable statewide employment and training activities?
Allowable statewide employment and training activities may include:
(a) State administration of the adult, dislocated worker and youth workforce investment activities, consistent with the five percent administrative cost limitation at WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(B) and § 683.205(a)(1) of this chapter;
(b) Developing and implementing innovative programs and strategies designed to meet the needs of all employers (including small employers) in the State, including the programs and strategies referenced in WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(i);
(c) Developing strategies for serving individuals with barriers to employment, and for coordinating programs and services among one-stop partners;
(d) Development or identification of education and training programs that have the characteristics referenced in WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(iii);
(e) Implementing programs to increase the number of individuals training for and placed in non-traditional employment;
(f) Conducting research and demonstrations related to meeting the employment and education needs of youth, adults and dislocated workers;
(g) Supporting the development of alternative, evidence-based programs, and other activities that enhance the choices available to eligible youth and which encourage youth to reenter and complete secondary education, enroll in postsecondary education and advanced training, progress through a career pathway, and enter into unsubsidized employment that leads to economic self-sufficiency;
(h) Supporting the provision of career services in the one-stop delivery system in the State as described in § 678.430 of this chapter and WIOA secs. 129(b)(2)(C) and 134(c)(2);
(i) Supporting financial literacy activities as described in § 681.500 of this chapter and WIOA sec. 129(b)(2)(D);
(j) Providing incentive grants to local areas for performance by the local areas on local performance accountability measures;
(k) Providing technical assistance to Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs), chief elected officials, one-stop operators, one-stop partners, and eligible providers in local areas on the development of exemplary program activities and on the provision of technology to facilitate remote access to services provided through the one-stop delivery system in the State;
(l) Providing technical assistance to local areas that are implementing WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies and conducting evaluations of such strategies. Technical assistance may include providing assistance with data collections, meeting data entry requirements, and identifying level of performance;
(m) Carrying out activities to facilitate remote access to training services provided through the one-stop delivery system;
(n) Activities that include:
(1) Activities to improve coordination of workforce investment activities, with economic development activities; and
(2) Activities to improve coordination of employment and training activities with child support services and activities, cooperative extension programs carried out by the Department of Agriculture, programs carried out by local areas for individuals with disabilities (including the programs identified in WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(viii)(II)(cc)), adult education and literacy activities including those provided by public libraries, activities in the correction systems to assist ex-offenders in reentering the workforce and financial literacy activities; and
(3) Developing and disseminating workforce and labor market information;
(o) Implementation of promising practices for workers and businesses as described in WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(x);
(p) Adopting, calculating, or commissioning for approval an economic self-sufficiency standard for the State that specifies the income needs of families, by family size, the number and ages of children in the family, and sub-State geographical considerations;
(q) Developing and disseminating common intake procedures and related items, including registration processes, across core and partner programs; and
(r) Coordinating activities with the child welfare system to facilitate provision of services for children and youth who are eligible for assistance under sec. 477 of the Social Security Act.
§ 682.220
What are States' responsibilities in regard to evaluations?
(a) As required by § 682.200(d), States must use funds reserved by the Governor for statewide activities to conduct evaluations of activities under the WIOA title I core programs in order to promote continuous improvement, research and test innovative services and strategies, and achieve high levels of performance and outcomes.
(b) Evaluations conducted under paragraph (a) of this section must:
(1) Be coordinated with and designed in conjunction with State and Local WDBs and with State agencies responsible for the administration of all core programs;
(2) When appropriate, include analysis of customer feedback and outcome and process measures in the statewide workforce development system;
(3) Use designs that employ the most rigorous analytical and statistical methods that are reasonably feasible, such as the use of control groups; and
(4) To the extent feasible, be coordinated with the evaluations provided for by the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education under WIOA sec. 169 (regarding title I programs and other employment-related programs), WIOA sec. 242(c)(2)(D) (regarding adult education), sec. 12(a)(5), 14, and 107 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 709(a)(5), 711, 727) (applied with respect to programs carried out under title I of that Act (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
)), and the investigations provided by the Secretary of Labor under sec. 10(b) of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49i(b)).
(c) States must annually prepare, submit to the State WDB and Local WDBs in the State, and make available to the public (including by electronic means) reports containing the results, as available, of the evaluations described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) States must cooperate, to the extent practicable, in evaluations and related research projects conducted by the Secretaries of Labor and Education under the laws cited in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Such cooperation must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements:
(1) The timely provision of:
(i) Data, in accordance with appropriate privacy protections established by the Secretary of Labor;
(ii) Responses to surveys;
(iii) Site visits; and
(iv) Data and survey responses from local subgrantees and State and Local WDBs, and assuring that subgrantees and WDBs allow timely site visits;
(2) Encouraging other one-stop partners at local level to cooperate in timely provision of data, survey responses and site visits as listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section; and
(3) If a State determines that timely cooperation in data provision as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is not practicable, the Governor must inform the Secretary in writing and explain the reasons why it is not practicable. In such circumstances, the State must cooperate with the Department in developing a plan or strategy to mitigate or overcome the problems preventing timely provision of data, survey responses, and site visits.
(e) In fulfilling the requirements under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, States are permitted, but not required, to:
(1) Conduct evaluations that jointly examine title I core program activities and activities under other core programs in WIOA titles II-IV, as determined through the processes associated with paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(2) Conduct any type of evaluation similar to those authorized for, or conducted by, the Department of Labor or the Department of Education under the laws cited in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, including process and outcome studies, pilot and demonstration projects that have an evaluative component, analyses of administrative and programmatic data, impact and benefit-cost analyses, and use of rigorous designs to test the efficacy of various interventions; and
(3) Conduct evaluations over multiple program years, involving multiple phases and such tasks and activities as necessary for an evaluation, such as a literature or evidence review, feasibility study, planning, research, coordination, design, data collection, analysis, and report preparation, clearance, and dissemination.
(f) In funding evaluations conducted under paragraph (a) of this section, States are permitted, but not required to:
(1) Use funds from any WIOA title I-IV core program to conduct evaluations, as determined through the processes associated with paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(2) Use or combine funds, consistent with Federal and State law, regulation and guidance, from other public or private sources, to conduct evaluations relating to activities under the WIOA title I-IV core programs. Such projects may include those funded by the Department of Labor and other Federal agencies, among other sources.

# Subpart C—Rapid Response Activities
§ 682.300
What is rapid response, and what is its purpose?
(a) Rapid response is described in §§ 682.300 through 682.370, and encompasses the strategies and activities necessary to:
(1) Plan for and respond to as quickly as possible following an event described in § 682.302; and
(2) Deliver services to enable dislocated workers to transition to new employment as quickly as possible.
(b) The purpose of rapid response is to promote economic recovery and vitality by developing an ongoing, comprehensive approach to identifying, planning for, responding to layoffs and dislocations, and preventing or minimizing their impacts on workers, businesses, and communities. A successful rapid response system includes:
(1) Informational and direct reemployment services for workers, including but not limited to information and support for filing unemployment insurance claims, information on the impacts of layoff on health coverage or other benefits, information on and referral to career services, reemployment-focused workshops and services, and training;
(2) Delivery of solutions to address the needs of businesses in transition, provided across the business lifecycle (expansion and contraction), including comprehensive business engagement and layoff aversion strategies and activities designed to prevent or minimize the duration of unemployment;
(3) Convening, brokering, and facilitating the connections, networks and partners to ensure the ability to provide assistance to dislocated workers and their families such as home heating assistance, legal aid, and financial advice; and
(4) Strategic planning, data gathering and analysis designed to anticipate, prepare for, and manage economic change.
§ 682.302
Under what circumstances must rapid response services be delivered?
Rapid response must be delivered when one or more of the following circumstances occur:
(a) Announcement or notification of a permanent closure, regardless of the number of workers affected;
(b) Announcement or notification of a mass layoff as defined in § 682.305;
(c) A mass job dislocation resulting from a natural or other disaster; or
(d) The filing of a Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition.
§ 682.305
How does the Department define the term “mass layoff” for the purposes of rapid response?
For the purposes of rapid response, the term “mass layoff” used throughout this subpart will have occurred when at least one of the following conditions have been met:
(a) A layoff meets the State's definition of mass layoff, as long as the definition does not exceed a minimum threshold of 50 affected workers;
(b) Where a State has not defined a minimum threshold for mass layoff meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, layoffs affecting 50 or more workers; or
(c) When a Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act notice has been filed, regardless of the number of workers affected by the layoff announced.
§ 682.310
Who is responsible for carrying out rapid response activities?
(a) Rapid response activities must be carried out by the State or an entity designated by the State, in conjunction with the Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and other stakeholders, as provided by WIOA secs. 133(a)(2) and 134(a)(2)(A).
(b) States must establish and maintain a rapid response unit to carry out statewide rapid response activities and to oversee rapid response activities undertaken by a designated State entity, Local WDB, or the chief elected officials for affected local areas, as provided under WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(A)(i)(I).
§ 682.320
What is layoff aversion, and what are appropriate layoff aversion strategies and activities?
(a) Layoff aversion consists of strategies and activities, including those provided in paragraph (b) of this section and §§ 682.330 and 682.340, to prevent or minimize the duration of unemployment resulting from layoffs.
(b) Layoff aversion activities may include:
(1) Providing assistance to employers in managing reductions in force, which may include early identification of firms at risk of layoffs, assessment of the needs of and options for at-risk firms, and the delivery of services to address these needs, as provided by WIOA sec. 134(d)(1)(A)(ix)(II)(cc);
(2) Ongoing engagement, partnership, and relationship-building activities with businesses in the community, in order to create an environment for successful layoff aversion efforts and to enable the provision of assistance to dislocated workers in obtaining reemployment as soon as possible;
(3) Funding feasibility studies to determine if a company's operations may be sustained through a buyout or other means to avoid or minimize layoffs;
(4) Developing, funding, and managing incumbent worker training programs or other worker upskilling approaches as part of a layoff aversion strategy or activity;
(5) Connecting companies to:
(i) Short-time compensation or other programs designed to prevent layoffs or to reemploy dislocated workers quickly, available under Unemployment Insurance programs;
(ii) Employer loan programs for employee skill upgrading; and
(iii) Other Federal, State, and local resources as necessary to address other business needs that cannot be funded with resources provided under this title;
(6) Establishing linkages with economic development activities at the Federal, State, and local levels, including Federal Department of Commerce programs and available State and local business retention and expansion activities;
(7) Partnering or contracting with business-focused organizations to assess risks to companies, propose strategies to address those risks, implement services, and measure impacts of services delivered;
(8) Conducting analyses of the suppliers of an affected company to assess their risks and vulnerabilities from a potential closing or shift in production of their major customer;
(9) Engaging in proactive measures to identify opportunities for potential economic transition and training needs in growing industry sectors or expanding businesses; and
(10) Connecting businesses and workers to short-term, on-the-job, or customized training programs and registered apprenticeships before or after layoff to help facilitate rapid reemployment.
§ 682.330
What rapid response activities are required?
Rapid response activities must include:
(a) Layoff aversion activities as described in § 682.320, as applicable.
(b) Immediate and on-site contact with the employer, representatives of the affected workers, and the local community, including an assessment of and plans to address the:
(1) Layoff plans and schedule of the employer;
(2) Background and probable assistance needs of the affected workers;
(3) Reemployment prospects for workers; and
(4) Available resources to meet the short and long-term assistance needs of the affected workers.
(c) The provision of information and access to unemployment compensation benefits and programs, such as Short-Time Compensation, comprehensive one-stop delivery system services, and employment and training activities, including information on the TAA program (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
), Pell Grants, the GI Bill, and other resources.
(d) The delivery of other necessary services and resources including workshops and classes, use of worker transition centers, and job fairs, to support reemployment efforts for affected workers.
(e) Partnership with the Local WDB(s) and chief elected official(s) to ensure a coordinated response to the dislocation event and, as needed, obtain access to State or local economic development assistance. Such coordinated response may include the development of an application for a national dislocated worker grant as provided under part 687 of this chapter.
(f) The provision of emergency assistance adapted to the particular layoff or disaster.
(g) As appropriate, developing systems and processes for:
(1) Identifying and gathering information for early warning of potential layoffs or opportunities for layoff aversion;
(2) Analyzing, and acting upon, data and information on dislocations and other economic activity in the State, region, or local area; and
(3) Tracking outcome and performance data and information related to the activities of the rapid response program.
(h) Developing and maintaining partnerships with other appropriate Federal, State and local agencies and officials, employer associations, technical councils, other industry business councils, labor organizations, and other public and private organizations, as applicable, in order to:
(1) Conduct strategic planning activities to develop strategies for addressing dislocation events and ensuring timely access to a broad range of necessary assistance; and
(2) Develop mechanisms for gathering and exchanging information and data relating to potential dislocations, resources available, and the customization of layoff aversion or rapid response activities, to ensure the ability to provide rapid response services as early as possible.
(i) Delivery of services to worker groups for which a petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance has been filed.
(j) The provision of additional assistance, as described in § 682.350, to local areas that experience disasters, mass layoffs, or other dislocation events when such events exceed the capacity of the local area to respond with existing resources as provided under WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(A)(i)(II).
(k) Provision of guidance and financial assistance as appropriate, in establishing a labor-management committee if voluntarily agreed to by the employee's bargaining representative and management. The committee may devise and oversee an implementation strategy that responds to the reemployment needs of the workers. The assistance to this committee may include:
(1) The provision of training and technical assistance to members of the committee; and
(2) Funding the operating costs of a committee to enable it to provide advice and assistance in carrying out rapid response activities and in the design and delivery of WIOA-authorized services to affected workers.
§ 682.340
May other activities be undertaken as part of rapid response?
(a) Yes, in order to conduct layoff aversion activities, or to prepare for and respond to dislocation events, in addition to the activities required under § 682.330, a State or designated entity may devise rapid response strategies or conduct activities that are intended to minimize the negative impacts of dislocation on workers, businesses, and communities and ensure rapid reemployment for workers affected by layoffs.
(b) When circumstances allow, rapid response may provide guidance and/or financial assistance to establish community transition teams to assist the impacted community in organizing support for dislocated workers and in meeting the basic needs of their families, including heat, shelter, food, clothing and other necessities and services that are beyond the resources and ability of the one-stop delivery system to provide.
§ 682.350
What is meant by “provision of additional assistance” in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
As stated in WIOA sec. 133(a)(2), a State may reserve up to 25 percent of its allotted dislocated worker funds for rapid response activities. Once the State has reserved adequate funds for rapid response activities, such as those described in §§ 682.310, 682.320, and 682.330, any of the remaining funds reserved may be provided to local areas that experience increases of unemployment due to natural disasters, mass layoffs or other events, for provision of direct career services to participants if there are not adequate local funds available to assist the dislocated workers. States may wish to establish the policies or procedures governing the provision of additional assistance as described in § 682.340.
§ 682.360
What rapid response, layoff aversion, or other information will States be required to report to the Employment and Training Administration?
(a) Where a WIOA individual record exists for an individual served under programs reporting through the WIOA individual record, States must report information regarding the receipt of services under this subpart for such an individual. This information must be reported in the WIOA individual record.
(b) States must comply with these requirements as explained in guidance issued by the Department of Labor.
§ 682.370
What are the statewide activities for which rapid response funds remaining unobligated after the first program year for which the funds were allotted may be used by the State?
Funds reserved by the Governor for rapid response activities that remain unobligated after the first program year for which such funds were allotted may be used by the Governor to carry out statewide activities under §§ 682.200 and 682.210. Statewide activities for which these funds may be used include prioritizing the planning for and delivery of activities designed to prevent job loss, increasing the rate of reemployment, building relationships with businesses and other stakeholders, building and maintaining early warning networks and systems, and otherwise supporting efforts to allow long-term unemployed workers to return to work.
Pt. 683

# PART 683—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—Funding and Closeout
Sec.
683.100
When do Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant funds become available for obligation?
683.105
What award document authorizes the expenditure of funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
683.110
What is the period of performance of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
683.115
What planning information must a State submit in order to receive a formula grant?
683.120
How are Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I formula funds allocated to local areas?
683.125
What minimum funding provisions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act adult, dislocated worker, and youth allocations?
683.130
Does a Local Workforce Development Board have the authority to transfer funds between the adult employment and training activities allocation and the dislocated worker employment and training activities allocation?
683.135
What reallotment procedures does the Secretary use?
683.140
What reallocation procedures must the Governors use?
683.145
What merit review and risk assessment does the Department conduct for Federal financial assistance awards made under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I, subtitle D?
683.150
What closeout requirements apply to grants funded with Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?

# Subpart B—Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
683.200
What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
683.205
What administrative cost limitations apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I grants?
683.210
What audit requirements apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
683.215
What Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I functions and activities constitute the costs of administration subject to the administrative cost limitation?
683.220
What are the internal controls requirements for recipients and subrecipients of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
683.225
What requirements relate to the enforcement of the Military Selective Service Act?
683.230
Are there special rules that apply to veterans when income is a factor in eligibility determinations?
683.235
May Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I funds be spent for construction?
683.240
What are the instructions for using real property with Federal equity?
683.245
Are employment generating activities, or similar activities, allowable under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
683.250
What other activities are prohibited under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
683.255
What are the limitations related to religious activities of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
683.260
What prohibitions apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I funds to encourage business relocation?
683.265
What procedures and sanctions apply to violations of this part?
683.270
What safeguards are there to ensure that participants in Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act employment and training activities do not displace other employees?
683.275
What wage and labor standards apply to participants in activities under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
683.280
What health and safety standards apply to the working conditions of participants in activities under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
683.285
What are a recipient's obligations to ensure nondiscrimination and equal opportunity, and what are a recipient's obligations with respect to religious activities?
683.290
Are there salary and bonus restrictions in place for the use of title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
683.295
Is earning of profit allowed under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

# Subpart C—Reporting Requirements
683.300
What are the reporting requirements for programs funded under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

# Subpart D—Oversight and Resolution of Findings
683.400
What are the Federal and State monitoring and oversight responsibilities?
683.410
What are the oversight roles and responsibilities of recipients and subrecipients of Federal financial assistance awarded under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
683.420
What procedures apply to the resolution of findings arising from audits, investigations, monitoring, and oversight reviews?
683.430
How does the Secretary resolve investigative and monitoring findings?
683.440
What is the Grant Officer resolution process?

# Subpart E—Pay-for-Performance Contract Strategies
683.500
What is a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategy?
683.510
What is a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract?
683.520
What funds can be used to support Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategies?
683.530
How long are funds used for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategies available?
683.540
What is the State's role in assisting local areas in using Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategies?

# Subpart F—Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
683.600
What local area, State, and direct recipient grievance procedures must be established?
683.610
What processes does the Secretary use to review grievances and complaints of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I recipients?
683.620
How are complaints and reports of criminal fraud and abuse addressed under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
683.630
What additional appeal processes or systems must a State have for the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act program?
683.640
What procedures apply to the appeals of non-designation of local areas?
683.650
What procedures apply to the appeals of the Governor's imposition of sanctions for substantial violations or performance failures by a local area?

# Subpart G—Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
683.700
When can the Secretary impose sanctions and corrective actions on recipients and subrecipients of title I Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds?
683.710
Who is responsible for funds provided under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
683.720
What actions are required to address the failure of a local area to comply with the applicable uniform administrative provisions?
683.730
When can the Secretary waive the imposition of sanctions?
683.740
What is the procedure to handle a recipient of title I Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds' request for advance approval of contemplated corrective actions?
683.750
What procedure must be used for administering the offset/deduction provisions of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

# Subpart H—Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
683.800
What actions of the Department may be appealed to the Office of Administrative Law Judges?
683.810
What rules of procedure apply to hearings conducted under this subpart?
683.820
What authority does the Administrative Law Judge have in ordering relief as an outcome of an administrative hearing?
683.830
When will the Administrative Law Judge issue a decision?
683.840
Is there an alternative dispute resolution process that may be used in place of an Office of Administrative Law Judges hearing?
683.850
Is there judicial review of a final order of the Secretary issued under WIOA?

# Authority:
Secs. 102, 116, 121, 127, 128, 132, 133, 147, 167, 169, 171, 181, 185, 186, 189, 195, 503, Public Law 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56410, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Funding and Closeout
§ 683.100
When do Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant funds become available for obligation?
(a) WIOA
title I.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section or in the applicable fiscal year appropriation,
fiscal year appropriations for programs and activities carried out under title I are available for obligation on the basis of a program year. A program year begins on July 1 in the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year.
(b)
Youth funds.
Fiscal year appropriations for a program year's youth activities, authorized under chapter 2, subtitle B, title I of WIOA may be made available for obligation beginning on April 1 of the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made.
(c)
Wagner-Peyser Act employment service.
Fiscal year appropriations for activities authorized under sec. 6 of the Wagner-Peyser Act, 29 U.S.C. 49e, are available for obligation on the basis of a program year. A program year begins July 1 in the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year.
(d)
Discretionary grants.
Discretionary grant funds are available for obligation in accordance with the fiscal year appropriation.
§ 683.105
What award document authorizes the expenditure of funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
(a)
Agreement.
All WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds are awarded by grant or cooperative agreement, as defined in the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards regulations at 2 CFR 200.51 and 200.24 respectively, or contract, as defined in 2 CFR 200.22. All grant or cooperative agreements are awarded by the Grant Officer through negotiation with the recipient (the non-Federal entity). The agreement describes the terms and conditions applicable to the award of WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds and will conform to the requirements of 2 CFR 200.210. Contracts are issued by the Contracting Officer in compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
(b)
Grant funds awarded to States and outlying areas.
The Federal funds allotted to the States and outlying areas each program year in accordance with secs. 127(b) and 132(b) of WIOA will be obligated by grant agreement.
(c)
Native American programs.
Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements for the WIOA Native American program will be made to eligible entities on a competitive basis every 4 program years for a 4-year period, in accordance with the provisions of sec. 166 of WIOA.
(d)
Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs.
Awards of grants or contracts for the Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker Program will be made to eligible entities on a competitive basis every 4 program years for a 4-year period, in accordance with the provisions of sec. 167 of WIOA.
(e)
Awards for evaluation and research under sec. 169 of WIOA.
(1) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements will be made to eligible entities for programs or activities authorized under WIOA sec. 169. These funds are for:
(i) Evaluations;
(ii) Research;
(iii) Studies;
(iv) Multi-State projects; and
(v) Dislocated worker projects.
(2) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section in amounts that exceed $100,000 will be awarded on a competitive basis, except that a noncompetitive award may be made in the case of a project that is funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for the project.
(3) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements for carrying out projects in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section may not be awarded to the same organization for more than 3 consecutive years unless:
(i) Such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is competitively reevaluated within such period;
(ii) The initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement was issued on a non-competitive basis because it was for less than $100,000, and:
(A) The non-competitive continuation is for less than $100,000;
(B) The scope of work is essentially the same as the initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement;
(C) Progress in meeting performance objectives is satisfactory; and
(D) Other terms and conditions established by the Department have been met; or
(iii) The initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement was issued on a non-competitive basis because the project was funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance, and:
(A) The non-competitive continuation maintains a substantial portion of joint funding;
(B) The scope of work is essentially the same as the initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement;
(C) Progress in meeting performance objectives is satisfactory; and
(D) Other terms and conditions established by the Department have been met.
(4) Entities with recognized expertise in the methods, techniques, and knowledge of workforce investment activities will be provided priority in awarding funds for the projects under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section. The duration of such projects will be specified in the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.
(5) A peer review process will be used to review and evaluate projects under this paragraph (e) for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements that exceed $500,000, and to designate exemplary and promising programs.
(f)
Termination.
Each grant, cooperative agreement, or contract terminates as indicated in the terms of the agreement or when the period of performance has expired. The grants and cooperative agreements must be closed in accordance with the closeout provisions at 2 CFR 200.343 and 2 CFR part 2900 as applicable.
§ 683.110
What is the period of performance of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
(a) The statutory period of availability for expenditure for WIOA title I grants will be established as the period of performance for such grants unless otherwise provided in the grant agreement or cooperative agreement. All funds must be fully expended by the expiration of the period of performance or they risk losing their availability. Unless otherwise authorized in a grant or cooperative agreement or subsequent modification, recipients must expend funds with the shortest period of availability first.
(b)
Grant funds expended by States.
Funds allotted to States under WIOA secs. 127(b) and 132(b) for any program year are available for expenditure by the State receiving the funds only during that program year and the 2 succeeding program years as identified in § 683.100.
(c)
Grant funds expended by local areas as defined in WIOA sec. 106.
(1)(i) Funds allocated by a State to a local area under WIOA secs. 128(b) and 133(b), for any program year are available for expenditure only during that program year and the succeeding program year;
(ii)
Pay-for-Performance exception.
Funds used to carry out WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies will remain available until expended in accordance with WIOA sec. 189(g)(2)(D).
(2) Funds which are not expended by a local area(s) in the 2-year period described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, must be returned to the State. Funds so returned are available for expenditure by State and local recipients and subrecipients only during the third program year of availability in accordance with WIOA secs. 128(c) and 132(c). These funds are available for only the following purposes:
(i) For statewide projects; or
(ii) For distribution to local areas which had fully expended their allocation of funds for the same program year within the 2-year period.
(d)
Native American programs.
Funds awarded by the Department under WIOA sec. 166(c) are available for expenditure for the period identified in the grant or contract award document, which will not exceed 4 years.
(e)
Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs.
Funds awarded by the Department under WIOA sec. 167 are available for expenditure for the period identified in the grant award document, which will not exceed 4 years.
(f)
Evaluations and research.
Funds awarded by the Department under
WIOA sec. 169 are available for expenditure for any program or activity authorized under sec. 169 of WIOA and will remain available until expended or as specified in the award document.
(g)
Other programs under title I of WIOA, including secs. 170 and 171, and all other grants, contracts and cooperative agreements.
Funds are available for expenditure for a period of performance identified in the grant or contract agreement.
(h)
Wagner-Peyser Act.
Funds allotted to States for grants under secs. 3 and 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act for any program year are available for expenditure by the State receiving the funds only during that program year and the 2 succeeding program years. The program year begins on July 1 of the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made.
§ 683.115
What planning information must a State submit in order to receive a formula grant?
Each State seeking financial assistance under subtitle B, chapter 2 (youth) or chapter 3 (adults and dislocated workers), of title I of WIOA, or under the Wagner-Peyser Act must submit a Unified State Plan under sec. 102 of WIOA or a Combined State Plan under WIOA sec. 103. The requirements for the plan content and the plan review process are described in secs. 102 and 103 of WIOA, sec. 8 of Wagner-Peyser Act, and §§ 676.100 through 676.145 of this chapter and §§ 652.211 through 652.214 of this chapter.
§ 683.120
How are Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I formula funds allocated to local areas?
(a)
General.
The Governor must allocate WIOA formula funds allotted for services to youth, adults and dislocated workers in accordance with secs. 128 and 133 of WIOA and this section.
(1) State WDBs must assist Governors in the development of any youth or adult discretionary within-State allocation formulas.
(2) Within-State allocations must be made:
(i) In accordance with the allocation formulas contained in secs. 128(b) and 133(b) of WIOA and in the State Plan;
(ii) After consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs in each of the local areas; and
(iii) In accordance with sec. 182(e) of WIOA, available to local areas not later than 30 days after the date funds are made available to the State or 7 days after the date the local plan for the area is approved, whichever is later.
(b)
State reserve.
Of the WIOA formula funds allotted for services to youth, adults and dislocated workers, the Governor must reserve not more than 15 percent of the funds from each of these sources to carry out statewide activities. Funds reserved under this paragraph may be combined and spent on statewide activities under WIOA sec. 129(b) and statewide employment and training activities under WIOA sec. 134(a), for adults and dislocated workers, and youth activities, as described in §§ 682.200 and 682.210 of this chapter, without regard to the funding source of the reserved funds.
(c)
Youth allocation formula.
(1) Unless the Governor elects to distribute funds in accordance with the discretionary allocation formula described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the remainder of youth funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section must be allocated:
(i) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in each local area, compared to the total number of unemployed individuals in all areas of substantial unemployment in the State;
(ii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative excess number of unemployed individuals in each local area, compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in the State; and
(iii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of disadvantaged youth in each local area, compared to the total number of disadvantaged youth in the State except for local areas as described in sec. 107(c)(1)(C) of WIOA where the allotment must be based on the greater of either the number of individuals aged 16 to 21 in families with an income below the low-income level for the area or the number of disadvantaged youth in the area.
(2)
Discretionary youth allocation formula.
In lieu of making the formula allocation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the State may allocate youth funds under a discretionary formula. Under this discretionary formula, the State must allocate a minimum of 70 percent of youth funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section on the basis of the formula in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and may allocate up to 30 percent on the basis of a formula that:
(i) Incorporates additional factors (other than the factors described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) relating to:
(A) Excess youth poverty in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(B) Excess unemployment above the State average in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(ii) Was developed by the State WDB and approved by the Secretary of Labor as part of the State Plan.
(d)
Adult allocation formula.
(1) Unless the Governor elects to distribute funds in accordance with the discretionary allocation formula described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the remainder of adult funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section must be allocated:
(i) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in each local area, compared to the total number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in the State;
(ii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative excess number of unemployed individuals in each local area, compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in the State; and
(iii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of disadvantaged adults in each local area, compared to the total number of disadvantaged adults in the State. Except for local areas as described in sec. 107(c)(1)(C) of WIOA where the allotment must be based on the higher of either the number of adults with an income below the low-income level for the area or the number of disadvantaged adults in the area.
(2)
Discretionary adult allocation formula.
In lieu of making the formula allocation described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the State may allocate adult funds under a discretionary formula, Under this discretionary formula, the State must allocate a minimum of 70 percent of adult funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section on the basis of the formula in paragraph (d)(1), and may allocate up to 30 percent on the basis of a formula that:
(i) Incorporates additional factors (other than the factors described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) relating to:
(A) Excess poverty in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(B) Excess unemployment above the State average in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(ii) Was developed by the State WDB and approved by the Secretary of Labor as part of the State Plan.
(e)
Dislocated worker allocation formula.
(1) The remainder of dislocated worker funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section must be allocated on the basis of a formula prescribed by the Governor that distributes funds in a manner that addresses the State's dislocated worker needs. Funds so distributed must not be less than 60 percent of the State's formula allotment.
(2) The Governor's dislocated worker formula must use the most appropriate information available to the Governor, including information on:
(i) Insured unemployment data;
(ii) Unemployment concentrations;
(iii) Plant closings and mass layoff data;
(iv) Declining industries data;
(v) Farmer-rancher economic hardship data; and
(vi) Long-term unemployment data.
(3) The Governor may not amend the dislocated worker formula more than once for any program year.
(f)
Rapid response.
(1) Of the WIOA formula funds allotted for services to dislocated workers in sec. 132(b)(2)(B) of WIOA, the Governor must reserve not more than 25 percent of the funds for statewide rapid response activities described in WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(A) and §§ 682.300 through 682.370 of this chapter.
(2)
Unobligated funds.
Funds reserved by a Governor for rapid response activities under sec. 133(a)(2) of WIOA, and sec. 133(a)(2) of the Workforce Investment Act (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of WIOA), to carry out sec. 134(a)(2)(A) of WIOA that remain unobligated after the first program year for which the funds were allotted, may be used by the Governor to carry out statewide activities authorized under paragraph (b) of this section and §§ 682.200 and 682.210 of this chapter.
(g)
Special rule.
For the purpose of the formula in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section, the State must, as appropriate and to the extent practicable, exclude college students and members of the Armed Forces from the determination of the number of disadvantaged youth and disadvantaged adults.
§ 683.125
What minimum funding provisions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act adult, dislocated worker, and youth allocations?
(a) For funding authorized by secs. 128(b)(2), 133(b)(2)(A), and 133(b)(2)(B) of WIOA, which are youth, adult, and dislocated worker funds, a local area must not receive an allocation percentage for a fiscal year that is less than 90 percent of the average allocation percentage of the local area for the 2 preceding fiscal years.
(b) The Department's annual fiscal year appropriation provides funding for programs and activities described in paragraph (a) of this section under separate appropriations with various periods of availability. These periods of availability are described in § 683.100 as a program year. A program year for funds allocated under secs. 133(b)(2)(A) and 133(b)(2)(B) of WIOA begins on July 1 in the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year. A program year for funds available under WIOA sec. 128(b)(2) is available from April 1 of the fiscal year in which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year. Therefore, when grantees are calculating the minimum funding percentage they must do so on a program year basis.
(c) When a new local area is designated under sec. 106 of WIOA the State must develop a methodology to apply the minimum funding provision specified in paragraph (a) of this section to local area allocations of WIOA youth, adult, and dislocated worker funds.
(d) Amounts necessary to increase allocations to local areas to comply with paragraph (a) of this section must be obtained by ratably reducing the allocations to be made to other local areas.
(e) If the amounts of WIOA funds appropriated in a fiscal year are not sufficient to provide the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this section to all local areas, the amounts allocated to each local area must be ratably reduced.
§ 683.130
Does a Local Workforce Development Board have the authority to transfer funds between the adult employment and training activities allocation and the dislocated worker employment and training activities allocation?
(a) A Local WDB may transfer up to 100 percent of a program year allocation for adult employment and training activities, and up to 100 percent of a program year allocation for dislocated worker employment and training activities between the two programs.
(b) Local WDBs may not transfer funds to or from the youth program.
(c) Before making any transfer described in paragraph (a) of this section, a Local WDB must obtain the Governor's written approval. The Governor's written approval must be based on criteria or factors that the Governor must establish in a written policy, such as the State Unified or Combined Plan or other written policy.
§ 683.135
What reallotment procedures does the Secretary use?
(a) The Secretary determines, during the second quarter of each program year, whether a State has obligated its required level of at least 80 percent of the funds allotted under secs. 127 and 132 of WIOA for programs serving youth, adults, and dislocated workers for the prior program year, as separately determined for each of the three funding streams. The amount to be recaptured from each State for reallotment, if any, is based on State obligations of the funds allotted to each
State under secs. 127 and 132 of WIOA for programs serving youth, adults, or dislocated workers, less any amount reserved (up to five percent at the State level) for the costs of administration. The recapture amount, if any, is separately determined for each funding stream.
(b) The Secretary reallots youth, adult and dislocated worker funds among eligible States in accordance with the provisions of secs. 127(c) and 132(c) of WIOA, respectively. To be eligible to receive a reallotment of youth, adult, or dislocated worker funds under the reallotment procedures, a State must have obligated at least 80 percent of the prior program year's allotment, less any amount reserved for the costs of administration at the State level of youth, adult, or dislocated worker funds. A State's eligibility to receive a reallotment is separately determined for each funding stream.
(c) The term “obligation” is defined at 2 CFR 200.71.
(d) Obligations must be reported on the required Department of Labor (the Department) financial form, such as the ETA-9130 form, unless otherwise noted in guidance.
§ 683.140
What reallocation procedures must the Governors use?
(a) The Governor, after consultation with the State WDB, may reallocate youth, adult, and dislocated worker funds among local areas within the State in accordance with the provisions of secs. 128(c) and 133(c) of WIOA. If the Governor chooses to reallocate funds, the provisions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply.
(b) For the youth, adult and dislocated worker programs, the amount to be recaptured from each local area for purposes of reallocation, if any, must be based on the amount by which the prior year's unobligated balance of allocated funds exceeds 20 percent of that year's allocation for the program, less any amount reserved (up to 10 percent) for the costs of administration. Unobligated balances must be determined based on allocations adjusted for any allowable transfer between funding streams. The amount to be recaptured, if any, must be separately determined for each funding stream. The term “obligation” is defined at 2 CFR 200.71.
(c) To be eligible to receive youth, adult or dislocated worker funds under the reallocation procedures, a local area must have obligated at least 80 percent of the prior program year's allocation, less any amount reserved (up to 10 percent) for the costs of administration, for youth, adult, or dislocated worker activities, as separately determined. A local area's eligibility to receive a reallocation must be separately determined for each funding stream.
§ 683.145
What merit review and risk assessment does the Department conduct for Federal financial assistance awards made under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I, subtitle D?
(a) For competitive awards, the Department will design and execute a merit review process for applications as prescribed under 2 CFR 200.204 when issuing Federal financial assistance awards made under WIOA title I, subtitle D. This process will be described in the applicable funding opportunity announcement.
(b) Prior to issuing a Federal financial assistance award under WIOA title I, subtitle D, the Department will conduct a risk assessment to assess the organization's overall ability to administer Federal funds as required under 2 CFR 200.205. As part of this assessment, the Department may consider any information that has come to its attention and will consider the organization's history with regard to the management of other grants, including Department of Labor grants.
(c) In evaluating risks posed by applicants, the Department will consider the following:
(1) Financial stability;
(2) Quality of management systems and ability to meet the management standards prescribed in this part;
(3) History of performance. The applicant's record in managing Federal awards, if it is a prior recipient of Federal awards, including timeliness of compliance with applicable reporting requirements, conformance to the terms and conditions of previous Federal awards, and if applicable, the extent to which any previously awarded
amounts will be expended prior to future awards;
(4) Reports and findings from audits; and
(5) The applicant's ability to implement effectively statutory, regulatory, or other requirements imposed on non-Federal entities.
§ 683.150
What closeout requirements apply to grants funded with Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
(a) After the expiration of the period of performance, the Department will closeout the Federal award when it determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the Federal award have been completed by the grant recipient. This section specifies the actions the grant recipient and the Department must take to complete this process.
(1) The grant recipient must submit, no later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(2) The Department may approve extensions when requested by the grant recipient.
(b) Unless otherwise noted in the terms and conditions of the award or an extension, grant recipients must comply with 2 CFR 200.343(b) and 2900.15 in regards to closeout.
(c) The Department must make prompt payments to the grant recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the Federal award being closed out.
(d) The grant recipient must promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that the Department paid in advance or paid and that is not authorized to be retained by the grant recipient. See Office of Management and Budget Circular A-129, 2 CFR 200.345, and 2 CFR part 2900 for requirements regarding unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts.
(e) Consistent with the terms and conditions of the Federal award, the Department must make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received.
(f) The grant recipient must account for any real and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal government in accordance with 2 CFR 200.310 through 200.316, and 200.329.
(g) The Department should complete all closeout actions for Federal awards no later than 1 year after receipt and acceptance of all required final reports.
(h) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following:
(1) The right of the Department to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review.
(2) The obligation of the grant recipient to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions.
(3) Audit requirements as described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(4) Property management requirements in 2 CFR 200.310 through 200.316.
(5) Records retention as required in 2 CFR 200.333 through 200.337.
(i) After closeout of an award, a relationship created under the award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of the Department and the grant recipient, provided the responsibilities of the grant recipient referred to in 2 CFR 200.344(a) and 200.310 through 200.316 are considered, and provisions are made for continuing responsibilities of the grant recipient, as appropriate.
(j) Grant recipients that award WIOA funds to subrecipients must institute a timely closeout process after the end of performance to ensure a timely closeout in accordance with 2 CFR 200.343 and 200.344.

# Subpart B—Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
§ 683.200
What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
(a)
Uniform Guidance.
Recipients and subrecipients of a Federal award under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act must follow the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR parts 200, 215, 225, 230, including any exceptions identified by the Department at 2 CFR part 2900.
(1) Commercial organizations, for-profit entities, and foreign entities that are recipients and subrecipients of a Federal award must adhere to 2 CFR part 200, including any exceptions identified by the Department under 2 CFR part 2900;
(2) Commercial organizations, for-profit entities, and foreign entities that are contractors or subcontractors must adhere to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), including 48 CFR part 31.
(b)
Allowable costs and cost principles.
(1) Recipients and subrecipients of a Federal award under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act must follow the cost principles at subpart E and appendices III through IX of 2 CFR part 200, including any exceptions identified by the Department at 2 CFR part 2900.
(2) Unless specified in the grant agreement, for those items requiring prior approval in the Uniform Guidance (
e.g.,
selected items of cost, budget realignment), the authority to grant or deny approval is delegated to the Governor for programs funded under sec. 127 or 132 of WIOA or under the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(3) Costs of workforce councils, advisory councils, Native American Employment and Training Councils, and Local WDB committees established under title I of WIOA are allowable.
(c)
Uniform administrative requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3) through (6) of this section, all recipients and subrecipients of a Federal award under title I of WIOA and under the Wagner-Peyser Act must follow 2 CFR part 200, including any exceptions identified by the Department at 2 CFR part 2900.
(2) Unless otherwise specified in the grant agreement, expenditures must be reported on accrual basis.
(3) In accordance with the requirements at 2 CFR 200.400(g), subrecipients may not earn or keep any profit resulting from Federal financial assistance, unless expressly authorized by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(4) In addition to the requirements at 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.326 (as appropriate), all procurement contracts between Local WDBs and units of State or local governments must be conducted only on a cost reimbursement basis.
(5) In addition to the requirements at 2 CFR 200.318, which address codes of conduct and conflict of interest the following applies:
(i) A State WDB member, Local WDB member, or WDB standing committee member must neither cast a vote on, nor participate in any decision-making capacity, on the provision of services by such member (or any organization which that member directly represents), nor on any matter which would provide any direct financial benefit to that member or that member's immediate family.
(ii) Neither membership on the State WDB, the Local WDB, or a WDB standing committee, nor the receipt of WIOA funds to provide training and related services, by itself, violates these conflict of interest provisions.
(iii) In accordance with the requirements at 2 CFR 200.112, recipients of Federal awards must disclose in writing any potential conflict of interest to the Department. Subrecipients must disclose in writing any potential conflict of interest to the recipient of grant funds.
(6) The addition method, described at 2 CFR 200.307, must be used for all program income earned under title I of WIOA and Wagner-Peyser Act grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to the program, the gross amount earned must be added to the program in which it was earned. However, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under the grants when these costs have not been charged to the program.
(7) Any excess of revenue over costs incurred for services provided by a governmental or non-profit entity must be included in program income.
(8) Interest income earned on funds received under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act must be included in program income.
(9) On a fee-for-service basis, employers may use local area services, facilities, or equipment funded under title I of WIOA to provide employment and
training activities to incumbent workers:
(i) When the services, facilities, or equipment are not being used by eligible participants;
(ii) If their use does not affect the ability of eligible participants to use the services, facilities, or equipment; and
(iii) If the income generated from such fees is used to carry out programs authorized under this title.
(d)
Government-wide debarment and suspension, and government-wide drug-free workplace requirements.
All WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act grant recipients and subrecipients must comply with the government-wide requirements for debarment and suspension, and the government-wide requirements for a drug-free workplace in accordance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, 41 U.S.C. 8103
et seq.,
and 2 CFR part 182.
(e)
Restrictions on lobbying.
All WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyer grant recipients and subrecipients must comply with the restrictions on lobbying specified in WIOA sec. 195 and codified in the Department regulations at 29 CFR part 93.
(f)
Buy-American.
As stated in sec. 502 of WIOA, all funds authorized in title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act must be expended in compliance with secs. 8301 through 8303 of the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
(g)
Nepotism.
(1) No individual may be placed in a WIOA employment activity if a member of that person's immediate family is directly supervised by or directly supervises that individual.
(2) To the extent that an applicable State or local legal requirement regarding nepotism is more restrictive than this provision, such State or local requirement must be followed.
(h)
Mandatory disclosures.
All WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act recipients of Federal awards must disclose as required at 2 CFR 200.113, in a timely manner, in writing to the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery, or gratuity violations potentially affecting the Federal award. Failure to make required disclosures can result in any of the remedies described in 2 CFR 200.338 (Remedies for noncompliance), including suspension or debarment.
§ 683.205
What administrative cost limitations apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I grants?
(a)
State formula grants.
(1) As part of the 15 percent that a State may reserve for statewide activities, the State may spend up to 5 percent of the amount allotted under secs. 127(b)(1), 132(b)(1), and 132(b)(2) of WIOA for the administrative costs of statewide activities.
(2) Local area expenditures for administrative purposes under WIOA formula grants are limited to no more than 10 percent of the amount allocated to the local area under secs. 128(b) and 133(b) of WIOA.
(3) The 5 percent reserved for statewide administrative costs and the 10 percent reserved for local administrative costs may be used for administrative costs for any of the statewide youth workforce investment activities or statewide employment and training activities under secs. 127(b)(1), 128(b), 132(b), and 133(b) of WIOA.
(4) In a one-stop environment, administrative costs borne by other sources of funds, such as the Wagner-Peyser Act, are not included in the administrative cost limit calculation. Each program's administrative activities are chargeable to its own grant and subject to its own administrative cost limitations.
(5) Costs of negotiating a MOU or infrastructure funding agreement under title I of WIOA are excluded from the administrative cost limitations.
(b)
Discretionary grants.
Limits on administrative costs, if any, for programs operated under subtitle D of title I of WIOA will be identified in the grant or cooperative agreement.
§ 683.210
What audit requirements apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
All recipients of WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds that expend more than the minimum amounts specified in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, in Federal awards during their fiscal year must have a program specific or single audit conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(a)
Commercial or for-profit.
Grant recipients and subrecipients of title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds that are commercial or for-profit entities must adhere to the requirements contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(b)
Subrecipients and contractors.
An auditee may simultaneously be a recipient, a subrecipient, and a contractor depending on the substance of its agreements with Federal awarding agencies and pass-through entities. Federal awards expended as a recipient or subrecipient are subject to audit requirements under 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(c)
Contractors.
The payments received for goods or services provided as a contractor are not Federal awards. Subrecipient and contractor determinations made under 2 CFR 200.330 must be considered in determining whether payments constitute a Federal award or a payment for goods and services provided as a contractor.
§ 683.215
What Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I functions and activities constitute the costs of administration subject to the administrative cost limitation?
(a) The costs of administration are expenditures incurred by State and Local WDBs, Regions, direct grant recipients, including State grant recipients under subtitle B of title I of WIOA, and recipients of awards under subtitle D of title I, as well as local grant recipients, local grant subrecipients, local fiscal agents and one-stop operators that are associated with those specific functions identified in paragraph (b) of this section and which are not related to the direct provision of workforce investment services, including services to participants and employers. These costs can be both personnel and non-personnel and both direct and indirect.
(b) The costs of administration are the costs associated with performing the following functions:
(1) Performing the following overall general administrative functions and coordination of those functions under title I of WIOA:
(i) Accounting, budgeting, financial and cash management functions;
(ii) Procurement and purchasing functions;
(iii) Property management functions;
(iv) Personnel management functions;
(v) Payroll functions;
(vi) Coordinating the resolution of findings arising from audits, reviews, investigations and incident reports;
(vii) Audit functions;
(viii) General legal services functions;
(ix) Developing systems and procedures, including information systems, required for these administrative functions; and
(x) Fiscal agent responsibilities;
(2) Performing oversight and monitoring responsibilities related to WIOA administrative functions;
(3) Costs of goods and services required for administrative functions of the program, including goods and services such as rental or purchase of equipment, utilities, office supplies, postage, and rental and maintenance of office space;
(4) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out administrative activities; and
(5) Costs of information systems related to administrative functions (for example, personnel, procurement, purchasing, property management, accounting, and payroll systems) including the purchase, systems development and operating costs of such systems.
(c)(1) Awards to subrecipients or contractors that are solely for the performance of administrative functions are classified as administrative costs.
(2) Personnel and related non-personnel costs of staff that perform both administrative functions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and programmatic services or activities must be allocated as administrative or program costs to the benefitting cost objectives/categories.
(3) Specific costs charged to an overhead or indirect cost pool that can be identified directly as a program cost are to be charged as a program cost. Documentation of such charges must be maintained.
(4) Except as provided at paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all costs incurred
for functions and activities of subrecipients, other than those subrecipients listed in paragraph (a) of this section, and contractors are program costs.
(5) Continuous improvement activities are charged to administration or program category based on the purpose or nature of the activity to be improved. Documentation of such charges must be maintained.
(6) Costs of the following information systems including the purchase, systems development, and operational costs (
e.g.,
data entry) are charged to the program category:
(i) Tracking or monitoring of participant and performance information;
(ii) Employment statistics information, including job listing information, job skills information, and demand occupation information;
(iii) Performance and program cost information on eligible training providers, youth activities, and appropriate education activities;
(iv) Local area performance information; and
(v) Information relating to supportive services and unemployment insurance claims for program participants.
(d) Where possible, entities identified in paragraph (a) of this section must make efforts to streamline the services in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section to reduce administrative costs by minimizing duplication and effectively using information technology to improve services.
§ 683.220
What are the internal controls requirements for recipients and subrecipients of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
(a) Recipients and subrecipients of WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds must have an internal control structure and written policies in place that provide safeguards to protect personally identifiable information, records, contracts, grant funds, equipment, sensitive information, tangible items, and other information that is readily or easily exchanged in the open market, or that the Department or the recipient or subrecipient considers to be sensitive, consistent with applicable Federal, State and local privacy and confidentiality laws. Internal controls also must include reasonable assurance that the entity is:
(1) Managing the award in compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal award;
(2) Complying with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the Federal awards;
(3) Evaluating and monitoring the recipient's and subrecipient's compliance with WIOA, regulations and the terms and conditions of Federal awards; and
(4) Taking prompt action when instances of noncompliance are identified.
(b) Internal controls should be in compliance with the guidance in “Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government” issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and the “Internal Control Integrated Framework”, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). See 2 CFR 200.303.
§ 683.225
What requirements relate to the enforcement of the Military Selective Service Act?
The requirements relating to the enforcement of the Military Selective Service Act are found at WIOA sec. 189(h).
§ 683.230
Are there special rules that apply to veterans when income is a factor in eligibility determinations?
Yes, under 38 U.S.C. 4213, when past income is an eligibility determinant for Federal employment or training programs, any amounts received as military pay or allowances by any person who served on active duty, and certain other specified benefits must be disregarded for the veteran and for other individuals for whom those amounts would normally be applied in making an eligibility determination. This applies when determining if a person is a “low-income individual” for eligibility purposes (for example, in the WIOA youth, or NFJP programs). Also, it applies when income is used as a factor when a local area provides priority of service for “low-income individuals” with title I WIOA funds (
see
§§ 680.600 and 680.650 of this chapter). A veteran
must still meet each program's eligibility criteria to receive services under the respective employment and training program.
§ 683.235
May Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I funds be spent for construction?
WIOA title I funds must not be spent on construction, purchase of facilities or buildings, or other capital expenditures for improvements to land or buildings, except with the prior written approval of the Secretary.
§ 683.240
What are the instructions for using real property with Federal equity?
(a)
SESA properties.
Federal equity acquired in real property through grants to States awarded under title III of the Social Security Act or the Wagner-Peyser Act, including State Employment Security Agency (SESA) real property, is transferred to the States that used the grant to acquire such equity.
(1) The portion of any real property that is attributable to the Federal equity transferred under this section must be used to carry out activities authorized under WIOA, title III of the Social Security Act (Unemployment Compensation program), or the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(2) When such real property is no longer needed for the activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the States must request disposition instructions from the Grant Officer prior to disposition or sale of the property. The portion of the proceeds from the disposition of the real property that is attributable to the Federal equity transferred under this section must be used to carry out activities authorized under WIOA, title III of the Social Security Act, or the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(3) States must not use funds awarded under WIOA, title III of the Social Security Act, or the Wagner-Peyser Act to amortize the costs of real property that is purchased by any State on or after February 15, 2007, the date of enactment of the Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007.
(4) Properties occupied by the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service must be colocated with one-stop centers.
(b)
Reed Act-funded properties.
Properties with Reed Act equity may be used for the one-stop service delivery system to the extent that the proportionate share of Reed Act equity is less than or equal to the proportionate share of occupancy by the Unemployment Compensation and Wagner-Peyser Act programs in such properties. When such real property is no longer needed for authorized purposes, the State must request disposition instructions from the Grant Officer prior to disposition or sale. The portion of the proceeds from the disposition or sale of the real property that is attributable to the Reed Act equity must be returned to the State's account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (UTF) and used in accordance with Department-issued guidance.
(c)
Job Training Partnership Act and Workforce Investment Act-funded properties.
Real property that was purchased with WIA funds or that was transferred to WIA now is transferred to the WIOA title I programs and must be used for WIOA purposes. When such real property is no longer needed for the activities of WIOA, the recipient or subrecipient must seek instructions from the Grant Officer or State (in the case of a subrecipient) prior to disposition or sale.
§ 683.245
Are employment generating activities, or similar activities, allowable under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Under sec. 181(e) of WIOA, title I funds must not be spent on employment generating activities, investment in revolving loan funds, capitalization of businesses, investment in contract bidding resource centers, economic development activities, or similar activities, unless they are directly related to training for eligible individuals. For purposes of this prohibition, employer outreach and job development activities are directly related to training for eligible individuals.
(b) These employer outreach and job development activities may include:
(1) Contacts with potential employers for the purpose of placement of WIOA participants;
(2) Participation in business associations (such as chambers of commerce); joint labor management committees, labor associations, and resource centers;
(3) WIOA staff participation on economic development boards and commissions, and work with economic development agencies to:
(i) Provide information about WIOA programs;
(ii) Coordinate activities in a region or local area to promote entrepreneurial training and microenterprise services;
(iii) Assist in making informed decisions about community job training needs; and
(iv) Promote the use of first source hiring agreements and enterprise zone vouchering services;
(4) Active participation in local business resource centers (incubators) to provide technical assistance to small businesses and new businesses to reduce the rate of business failure;
(5) Subscriptions to relevant publications;
(6) General dissemination of information on WIOA programs and activities;
(7) The conduct of labor market surveys;
(8) The development of on-the-job training opportunities; and
(9) Other allowable WIOA activities in the private sector.
§ 683.250
What other activities are prohibited under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) WIOA title I funds must not be spent on:
(1) The wages of incumbent employees during their participation in economic development activities provided through a statewide workforce development system.
(2) Public service employment, except as specifically authorized under title I of WIOA.
(3) Expenses prohibited under any other Federal, State or local law or regulation.
(4) Subawards or contracts with parties that are debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal programs or activities.
(5) Contracts with persons falsely labeling products made in America.
(b) WIOA formula funds available to States and local areas under title I, subtitle B must not be used for foreign travel.
§ 683.255
What are the limitations related to religious activities of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Section 188(a)(3) of WIOA prohibits the use of funds to employ participants to carry out the construction, operation, or maintenance of any part of any facility used for sectarian instruction or as a place for religious worship with the exception of maintenance of facilities that are not primarily used for instruction or worship and are operated by organizations providing services to WIOA participants.
(b) 29 CFR part 2, subpart D, governs the circumstances under which Department support, including WIOA title I financial assistance, may be used to employ or train participants in religious activities. Under that subpart, such assistance may be used for such employment or training only when the assistance is provided indirectly within the meaning of the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution, and not when the assistance is provided directly. That subpart also contains requirements related to equal treatment in Department of Labor programs for religious organizations, and to protecting the religious liberty of Department of Labor social service providers and beneficiaries. (29 CFR part 2, subpart D—Equal Treatment in Department of Labor Programs for Religious Organizations, Protection of Religious Liberty of Department of Labor Social Service Providers and Beneficiaries).
§ 683.260
What prohibitions apply to the use of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I funds to encourage business relocation?
(a)
Prohibition.
Section 181(d) of WIOA states that funds must not be used or proposed to be used for:
(1) The encouragement or inducement of a business, or part of a business, to relocate from any location in the United States, if the relocation results in any employee losing his or her job at the original location;
(2) Customized training, skill training, on-the-job training, incumbent worker training, transitional employment, or company specific assessments of job applicants for or employees of any business or part of a business that has relocated from any location in the United States, until the company has operated at that location for 120 days, if the relocation has resulted in any employee losing his or her jobs at the original location.
(b)
Pre-award review.
To verify that a business establishment which is new or expanding is not, in fact, relocating employment from another area, standardized pre-award review criteria developed by the State must be completed and documented jointly by the local area and the business establishment as a prerequisite to WIOA assistance.
(1) The review must include names under which the establishment does business, including predecessors and successors in interest; the name, title, and address of the company official certifying the information, and whether WIOA assistance is sought in connection with past or impending job losses at other facilities, including a review of whether WARN notices relating to the employer have been filed.
(2) The review may include consultations with labor organizations and others in the affected local area(s).
§ 683.265
What procedures and sanctions apply to violations of this part?
(a) The Grant Officer will promptly review and take appropriate action on alleged violations of the provisions relating to:
(1) Construction (§ 683.235);
(2) Employment generating activities (§ 683.245);
(3) Other prohibited activities (§ 683.250);
(4) The limitation related to religious activities (§ 683.255); and
(5) The use of WIOA title I funds to encourage business relocation (§ 683.260).
(b) Procedures for the investigation and resolution of the violations are provided under the Grant Officer's resolution process at § 683.440.
(c) Sanctions and remedies are provided for under sec. 184(c) of WIOA for violations of the provisions relating to:
(1) Construction (§ 683.235);
(2) Employment generating activities (§ 683.245);
(3) Other prohibited activities (§ 683.250); and
(4) The limitation related to religious activities (§ 683.255(b)).
(d) Sanctions and remedies are provided for in sec. 181(d)(3) of WIOA for violations of § 683.260, which addresses business relocation.
(e) Violations of § 683.255(a) will be handled in accordance with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, codified at 29 CFR part 38.
§ 683.270
What safeguards are there to ensure that participants in Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act employment and training activities do not displace other employees?
(a) A participant in a program or activity authorized under title I of WIOA must not displace (including a partial displacement, such as a reduction in the hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits) any currently employed employee (as of the date of the participation).
(b) A program or activity authorized under title I of WIOA must not impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements. When a program or activity authorized under title I of WIOA would be inconsistent with a collective bargaining agreement, the appropriate labor organization and employer must provide written concurrence before the program or activity begins.
(c) A participant in a program or activity under title I of WIOA may not be employed in or assigned to a job if:
(1) Any other individual is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job;
(2) The employer has terminated the employment of any regular, unsubsidized employee or otherwise caused an involuntary reduction in its workforce with the intention of filling the vacancy so created with the WIOA participant; or
(3) The job is created in a promotional line that infringes in any way
on the promotional opportunities of currently employed workers as of the date of the participation.
(d) Regular employees and program participants alleging displacement may file a complaint under the applicable grievance procedures found at § 683.600.
§ 683.275
What wage and labor standards apply to participants in activities under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Individuals in on-the-job training or individuals employed in activities under title I of WIOA must be compensated at the same rates, including periodic increases, as trainees or employees who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience, and skills. Such rates must be in accordance with applicable law, but may not be less than the higher of the rate specified in sec. 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) or the applicable State or local minimum wage law.
(b) The reference in paragraph (a) of this section to sec. 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) is not applicable for individuals in territorial jurisdictions in which sec. 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) does not apply.
(c) Individuals in on-the-job training or individuals employed in programs and activities under title I of WIOA must be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.
(d) Allowances, earnings, and payments to individuals participating in programs under title I of WIOA are not considered as income for purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of income transfer and in-kind aid furnished under any Federal or Federally-assisted program based on need, other than as provided under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
).
§ 683.280
What health and safety standards apply to the working conditions of participants in activities under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Health and safety standards established under Federal and State law otherwise applicable to working conditions of employees are equally applicable to working conditions of participants engaged in programs and activities under title I of WIOA.
(b)(1) To the extent that a State workers' compensation law applies, workers' compensation must be provided to participants in programs and activities under title I of WIOA on the same basis as the compensation is provided to other individuals in the State in similar employment.
(2) If a State workers' compensation law applies to a participant in work experience, workers' compensation benefits must be available for injuries suffered by the participant in such work experience. If a State workers' compensation law does not apply to a participant in work experience, insurance coverage must be secured for injuries suffered by the participant in the course of such work experience.
§ 683.285
What are a recipient's obligations to ensure nondiscrimination and equal opportunity, and what are a recipient's obligations with respect to religious activities?
(a)(1) Recipients, as defined in 29 CFR 37.4, must comply with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIOA sec. 188 and its implementing regulations, codified at 29 CFR part 38. Under that definition, the term “recipients” includes State and Local WDBs, one-stop operators, service providers, Job Corps contractors, and subrecipients, as well as other types of individuals and entities.
(2) Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements and procedures, including complaint processing and compliance reviews, are governed by the regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, codified at 29 CFR part 38, and are administered and enforced by the Department of Labor Civil Rights Center.
(3) Financial assistance provided under title I of WIOA may be used to meet a recipient's obligation to provide
physical and programmatic accessibility and reasonable accommodation/modification in regard to the WIOA program, as required by sec. 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended; sec. 188 of WIOA; and the regulations implementing these statutory provisions.
(4) No person may discriminate against an individual who is a participant in a program or activity that receives funds under title I of WIOA, with respect to the terms and conditions affecting, or rights provided to, the individual, solely because of the status of the individual as a participant.
(5) Participation in programs and activities or receiving funds under title I of WIOA must be available to citizens and nationals of the United States, lawfully admitted permanent resident aliens, refugees, asylees, and parolees, and other immigrants authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary's designee to work in the United States.
(b)(1) Title 29 CFR part 2, subpart D, governs the circumstances under which recipients may use Department support, including WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act financial assistance, to employ or train participants in religious activities. As explained in that subpart, such assistance may be used for such employment or training only when the assistance is provided indirectly within the meaning of the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution, and not when the assistance is provided directly. As explained in that subpart, assistance provided through an Individual Training Account is generally considered indirect, and other mechanisms also may be considered indirect.
See also
§ 683.255 and 29 CFR 37.6(f)(1).
(2) Title 29 CFR part 2, subpart D, also contains requirements related to equal treatment of religious organizations in Department of Labor programs, and to protection of religious liberty for Department of Labor social service providers and beneficiaries. Limitations on the employment of participants under WIOA title I to carry out the construction, operation, or maintenance of any part of any facility used or to be used for religious instruction or as a place of religious worship are described at 29 CFR 37.6(f)(2).
See also
WIOA sec. 188(a)(3).
§ 683.290
Are there salary and bonus restrictions in place for the use of title I of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and Wagner-Peyser Act funds?
(a) No funds available under title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used by a recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the salary and bonuses of an individual, either as direct costs or indirect costs, at a rate in excess of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level II of the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5313, which can be found at
https://www.opm.gov/
.
(b) In instances where funds awarded under title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act pay only a portion of the salary or bonus, the WIOA title I or Wagner-Peyser Act funds may only be charged for the share of the employee's salary or bonus attributable to the work performed on the WIOA title I or Wagner-Peyser Act grant. That portion cannot exceed the proportional Executive level II rate. The restriction applies to the sum of salaries and bonuses charged as either direct costs or indirect costs under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(c) The limitation described in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to contractors (as defined in 2 CFR 200.23) providing goods and services. In accordance with 2 CFR 200.330, characteristics indicative of contractor are the following:
(1) Provides the goods and services within normal business operations;
(2) Provides similar goods or services to many different purchasers;
(3) Normally operates in a competitive environment;
(4) Provides goods or services that are ancillary to the operation of the Federal program; and
(5) Is not subject to compliance requirements of the Federal program as a result of the agreement, though similar requirements may apply for other reasons.
(d) If a State is a recipient of such funds, the State may establish a lower limit than is provided in paragraph (a) of this section for salaries and bonuses of those receiving salaries and bonuses
from a subrecipient of such funds, taking into account factors including the relative cost of living in the State, the compensation levels for comparable State or local government employees, and the size of the organizations that administer the Federal programs involved.
(e) When an individual is working for the same recipient or subrecipient in multiple offices that are funded by title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act, the recipient or subrecipient must ensure that the sum of the individual's salary and bonus does not exceed the prescribed limit in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 683.295
Is earning of profit allowed under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a)(1) Under secs. 121(d), 122(a) and 134(b) of WIOA, for-profit entities are eligible to be one-stop operators, service providers, and eligible training providers.
(2) Where for-profit entities are one-stop operators, service providers, and eligible training providers, and those entities are recipients of Federal financial assistance, the recipient or subrecipient and the for-profit entity must follow 2 CFR 200.323.
(b) For programs authorized by other sections of WIOA, 2 CFR 200.400(g) prohibits earning and keeping of profit in Federal financial assistance unless expressly authorized by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(c) Income earned by a public or private nonprofit entity may be retained by such entity only if such income is used to continue to carry out the program.

# Subpart C—Reporting Requirements
§ 683.300
What are the reporting requirements for programs funded under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a)
General.
All States and other direct grant recipients must report financial, participant, and other performance data in accordance with instructions issued by the Secretary. Reports, records, plans, or any other data required to be submitted or made available must, to the extent practicable, be submitted or made available through electronic means. Reports will not be required to be submitted more frequently than quarterly within a time period specified in the reporting instructions.
(b)
Subrecipient reporting.
(1) For the annual eligible training provider performance reports described in § 677.230 of this chapter and local area performance reports described in § 677.205 of this chapter, the State must require the template developed under WIOA sec. 116(d)(1) to be used.
(2) For financial reports and performance reports other than those described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a State or other grant recipient may impose different forms or formats, shorter due dates, and more frequent reporting requirements on subrecipients.
(3) If a State intends to impose different reporting requirements on subrecipients, it must describe those reporting requirements in its State WIOA Plan.
(c)
Financial reports.
(1) Each grant recipient must submit financial reports on a quarterly basis.
(2) Local WDBs will submit quarterly financial reports to the Governor.
(3) Each State will submit to the Secretary a summary of the reports submitted to the Governor pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4) Reports must include cash on hand, obligations, expenditures, any income or profits earned, including such income or profits earned by subrecipients, indirect costs, recipient share of expenditures and any expenditures incurred (such as stand-in costs) by the recipient that are otherwise allowable except for funding limitations.
(5) Reported expenditures, matching funds, and program income, including any profits earned, must be reported on the accrual basis of accounting and cumulative by fiscal year of appropriation. If the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis of accounting, the recipient must develop accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(d)
Performance reports.
(1) States must submit an annual performance report for each of the core workforce programs administered under WIOA as required by sec. 116(d) of WIOA and in accordance with part 677, subpart A, of this chapter.
(2) For all programs authorized under subtitle D of WIOA, each grant recipient must complete reports on performance indicators or goals specified in its grant agreement.
(e)
Due date.
(1) For the core programs, performance reports are due on the date set forth in guidance.
(2) Financial reports and all performance and data reports not described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are due no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter unless otherwise specified in reporting instructions. Closeout financial reports are required no later than 90 calendar days after the expiration of a period of performance or period of fund availability (whichever comes first) and/or termination of the grant. If required by the terms and conditions of the grant, closeout performance reports are required no later than 90 calendar days after the expiration of a period of performance or period of fund availability (whichever comes first) and/or termination of the grant.
(f)
Format.
All reports whenever practicable should be collected, transmitted, and stored in open and machine readable formats.
(g)
Systems compatibility.
States and grant recipients will develop strategies for aligning data systems based upon guidelines issued by the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education.
(h)
Additional reporting.
At the Grant Officer's or Secretary's discretion, reporting may be required more frequently of its grant recipients. Such requirement is consistent with 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900.

# Subpart D—Oversight and Resolution of Findings
§ 683.400
What are the Federal and State monitoring and oversight responsibilities?
(a) The Secretary is authorized to monitor all recipients and subrecipients of all Federal financial assistance awarded and funds expended under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act to determine compliance with these statutes and Department regulations, and may investigate any matter deemed necessary to determine such compliance. Federal oversight will be conducted primarily at the recipient level.
(b) As funds allow, in each fiscal year, the Secretary also will conduct in-depth reviews in several States, including financial and performance monitoring, to assure that funds are spent in accordance with WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(c)(1) Each recipient and subrecipient must monitor grant-supported activities in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.
(2) In the case of grants under secs. 128 and 133 of WIOA, the Governor must develop a State monitoring system that meets the requirements of § 683.410(b). The Governor must monitor Local WDBs and regions annually for compliance with applicable laws and regulations in accordance with the State monitoring system. Monitoring must include an annual review of each local area's compliance with 2 CFR part 200.
(d) Documentation of monitoring, including monitoring reports and audit work papers, conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, along with corrective action plans, must be made available for review upon request of the Secretary, Governor, or a representative of the Federal government authorized to request the information.
§ 683.410
What are the oversight roles and responsibilities of recipients and subrecipients of Federal financial assistance awarded under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
(a) Each recipient and subrecipient of funds under title I of WIOA and under the Wagner-Peyser Act must conduct regular oversight and monitoring of its WIOA and Wagner-Peyser Act program(s) and those of its subrecipients and contractors as required under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act, as well as under 2 CFR part 200, including 2 CFR 200.327, 200.328, 200.330, 200.331, and Department exceptions at 2 CFR part 2900, in order to:
(1) Determine that expenditures have been made against the proper cost categories and within the cost limitations specified in WIOA and the regulations in this part;
(2) Determine whether there is compliance with other provisions of WIOA and the WIOA regulations and other applicable laws and regulations;
(3) Assure compliance with 2 CFR part 200; and
(4) Determine compliance with the nondiscrimination, disability, and equal opportunity requirements of sec. 188 of WIOA, including the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3003).
(b) State roles and responsibilities for grants under secs. 128 and 133 of WIOA:
(1) The Governor is responsible for the development of the State monitoring system. The Governor must be able to demonstrate, through a monitoring plan or otherwise, that the State monitoring system meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) The State monitoring system must:
(i) Provide for annual on-site monitoring reviews of local areas' compliance with 2 CFR part 200, as required by sec. 184(a)(3) of WIOA;
(ii) Ensure that established policies to achieve program performance and outcomes meet the objectives of WIOA and the WIOA regulations;
(iii) Enable the Governor to determine if subrecipients and contractors have demonstrated substantial compliance with WIOA and Wagner-Peyser Act requirements;
(iv) Enable the Governor to determine whether a local plan will be disapproved for failure to make acceptable progress in addressing deficiencies, as required in sec. 108(e) of WIOA; and
(v) Enable the Governor to ensure compliance with the nondiscrimination, disability, and equal opportunity requirements of sec. 188 of WIOA, including the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3003).
(3) The State must conduct an annual on-site monitoring review of each local area's compliance with 2 CFR part 200, as required by sec. 184(a)(4) of WIOA.
(4) The Governor must require that prompt corrective action be taken if any substantial violation of standards identified in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section is found.
(5) The Governor must impose the sanctions provided in secs. 184(b)-(c) of WIOA in the event of a subrecipient's failure to take required corrective action required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(6) The Governor may issue additional requirements and instructions to subrecipients on monitoring activities.
(7) The Governor must certify to the Secretary every 2 years that:
(i) The State has implemented 2 CFR part 200;
(ii) The State has monitored local areas to ensure compliance with 2 CFR part 200, including annual certifications and disclosures as outlined in 2 CFR 200.113, Mandatory Disclosures. Failure to do so may result in remedies described under 2 CFR 200.338, including suspension and debarment; and
(iii) The State has taken appropriate corrective action to secure such compliance.
§ 683.420
What procedures apply to the resolution of findings arising from audits, investigations, monitoring, and oversight reviews?
(a)
Resolution of subrecipient-level findings.
(1) The Governor or direct grant recipient is responsible for resolving findings that arise from the monitoring reviews, investigations, other Federal monitoring reviews, and audits (including under 2 CFR part 200) of subrecipients awarded funds through title I of WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(i) A State or direct grant recipient must utilize the written monitoring and audit resolution, debt collection and appeal procedures that it uses for other Federal grant programs.
(ii) If a State or direct grant recipient does not have such written procedures, it must prescribe standards and procedures to be used for this grant program.
(2) For subrecipients awarded funds through a recipient of grant funds under subtitle D of title I of WIOA, the direct recipient of the grant funds
must have written monitoring and resolution procedures in place that are consistent with 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Resolution of State and other direct recipient-level findings.
(1) The Secretary is responsible for resolving findings that arise from Federal audits, monitoring reviews, investigations, incident reports, and audits under 2 CFR part 200 for direct recipients of Federal awards under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III.
(2) The Secretary will use the Department audit resolution process, consistent with 2 CFR part 200 (and Department modifications at 2 CFR part 2900), and Grant Officer Resolution provisions of § 683.440, as appropriate.
(3) A final determination issued by a Grant Officer under this process may be appealed to the Department of Labor Office of Administrative Law Judges under the procedures at § 683.800.
(c)
Resolution of nondiscrimination findings.
Findings arising from investigations or reviews conducted under nondiscrimination laws will be resolved in accordance with WIOA sec. 188 of WIOA and the Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, codified at 29 CFR part 38.
§ 683.430
How does the Secretary resolve investigative and monitoring findings?
(a) As a result of an investigation, on-site visit, other monitoring, or an audit (
i.e.,
Single Audit, OIG Audit, GAO Audit, or other audit), the Secretary will notify the direct recipient of the Federal award of the findings of the investigation and give the direct recipient a period of time (not more than 60 days) to comment and to take appropriate corrective actions.
(1)
Adequate resolution.
The Grant Officer in conjunction with the Federal project officer, reviews the complete file of the monitoring review, monitoring report, or final audit report and the recipient's response and actions under paragraph (a) of this section. The Grant Officer's review takes into account the sanction provisions of secs. 184(b)-(c) of WIOA. If the Grant Officer agrees with the recipient's handling of the situation, the Grant Officer so notifies the recipient. This notification constitutes final agency action.
(2)
Inadequate resolution.
If the direct recipient's response and actions to resolve the findings are found to be inadequate, the Grant Officer will begin the Grant Officer resolution process under § 683.440.
(b) Audits from 2 CFR part 200 will be resolved through the Grant Officer resolution process, as discussed in § 683.440.
§ 683.440
What is the Grant Officer resolution process?
(a)
General.
When the Grant Officer is dissatisfied with the a recipient's disposition of an audit or other resolution of findings (including those arising out of site visits, incident reports or compliance reviews), or with the recipient's response to findings resulting from investigations or monitoring reports, the initial and final determination process as set forth in this section is used to resolve the matter.
(b)
Initial determination.
The Grant Officer makes an initial determination on the findings for both those matters where there is agreement and those where there is disagreement with the recipient's resolution, including the allowability of questioned costs or activities. This initial determination is based upon the requirements of WIOA, the Wagner-Peyser Act, and applicable regulations, and the terms and conditions of the grants or other agreements under the award.
(c)
Informal resolution.
Except in an emergency situation, when the Secretary invokes the authority described in sec. 184(e) of WIOA, the Grant Officer may not revoke a recipient's grant in whole or in part, nor institute corrective actions or sanctions, without first providing the recipient with an opportunity to present documentation or arguments to resolve informally those matters in dispute contained in the initial determination. The initial determination must provide for an informal resolution period of at least 60 days from issuance of the initial determination. If the matters are resolved informally, the Grant Officer must issue a final determination under paragraph (d) of this section which notifies
the parties in writing of the nature of the resolution and may close the file.
(d)
Final determination.
(1) Upon completion of the informal resolution process, the Grant Officer provides each party with a written final determination by certified mail, return receipt requested. For audits of recipient-level entities and other recipients which receive WIOA funds directly from the Department, ordinarily, the final determination is issued not later than 180 days from the date that the Office of Inspector General (OIG) issues the final approved audit report to the Employment and Training Administration. For audits of subrecipients conducted by the OIG, ordinarily the final determination is issued not later than 360 days from the date the OIG issues the final approved audit report to ETA.
(2) A final determination under this paragraph (d) must:
(i) Indicate whether efforts to resolve informally matters contained in the initial determination have been unsuccessful;
(ii) List those matters upon which the parties continue to disagree;
(iii) List any modifications to the factual findings and conclusions set forth in the initial determination and the rationale for such modifications;
(iv) Establish a debt, if appropriate;
(v) Require corrective action, when needed;
(vi) Determine liability, method of restitution of funds, and sanctions; and
(vii) Offer an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with § 683.800.
(3) Unless a hearing is requested, a final determination under this paragraph (d) is final agency action and is not subject to further review.

# Subpart E—Pay-for-Performance Contract Strategies
§ 683.500
What is a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategy?
(a) A WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy is a specific type of performance-based contract strategy that has four distinct characteristics:
(1) It is a strategy to use WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts as they are described in § 683.510;
(2) It must include the identification of the workforce development problem and target populations for which a local area will pursue a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy; the outcomes the local area would hope to achieve through a Pay-for-Performance contract relative to baseline performance; and the acceptable cost to government associated with achieving these outcomes;
(3) It must include a strategy for independently validating the performance outcomes achieved under each contract within the strategy prior to payment occurring; and
(4) It must include a description of how the State or local area will reallocate funds to other activities under the contract strategy in the event a service provider does not achieve performance benchmarks under a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract.
(b) Prior to the implementation of a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy, a local area must conduct a feasibility study to determine whether the intervention is suitable for a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy.
(c) The WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy must be developed in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary.
§ 683.510
What is a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract?
(a)
Pay-for-Performance contract.
A WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract is a type of Performance-Based contract.
(b)
Applicability.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts may only be entered into when they are a part of a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy described in § 683.500.
(c)
Cost-plus a percentage of cost contracts.
Use of cost plus a percentage of cost contracts is prohibited. (2 CFR 200.323.)
(d)
Services provided.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must be used to provide adult training services described in sec. 134(c)(3) of WIOA or youth activities described in sec. 129(c)(2) of WIOA.
(e)
Structure of payment.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must specify a fixed amount that will be paid to
the service provider based on the achievement of specified levels of performance on the performance outcomes in sec. 116(b)(2)(A) of WIOA for target populations within a defined timetable. Outcomes must be independently validated, as described in paragraph (j) of this section and § 683.500, prior to disbursement of funds.
(f)
Eligible service providers.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts may be entered into with eligible service providers, which may include local or national community-based organizations or intermediaries, community colleges, or other training providers that are eligible under sec. 122 or 123 of WIOA (as appropriate).
(g)
Target populations.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must identify target populations as specified by the Local WDB, which may include individuals with barriers to employment.
(h)
Bonus payments.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts may include bonus payments for the contractor based on achievement of specified levels of performance. Bonus payments for achieving outcomes above and beyond those specified in the contract must be used by the service provider to expand capacity to provide effective training.
(i)
Performance reporting.
Performance outcomes achieved under the WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract, measured against the levels of performance specified in the contract, must be tracked by the local area and reported to the State pursuant to WIOA sec. 116(d)(2)(K) and § 677.160 of this chapter.
(j)
Validation.
WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must include independent validation of the contractor's achievement of the performance benchmarks specified in the contract. This validation must be based on high-quality, reliable, and verified data.
(k)
Guidance.
The Secretary may issue additional guidance related to use of WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts.
§ 683.520
What funds can be used to support Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategies?
(a) For WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies providing adult and dislocated worker training services, funds allocated under secs. 133(b)(2)-(3) of WIOA can be used. For WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies providing youth activities, funds allocated under WIOA sec. 128(b) can be used.
(b) No more than 10 percent of the total local adult and dislocated worker allocations can be reserved and used on the implementation of WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies for adult training services described in sec. 134(c)(3) of WIOA. No more than 10 percent of the local youth allocation can be reserved and used on the implementation of WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies for youth training services and other activities described in secs. 129(c)(2) of WIOA.
§ 683.530
How long are funds used for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategies available?
Section 189(g)(2)(D) of WIOA authorizes funds used for WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies to be available until expended. Under WIOA sec. 3(47)(C), funds that are obligated but not expended due to a contractor not achieving the levels of performance specified in a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract may be reallocated for further activities related to WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies only. The Secretary will issue additional guidance related to the funds availability and reallocation.
§ 683.540
What is the State's role in assisting local areas in using Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract strategies?
(a) Using funds from the Governor's Reserve the State may:
(1) Provide technical assistance to local areas including assistance with structuring WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracting strategies, performance data collection, meeting performance data entry requirements, and identifying levels of performance.
(2) Conduct evaluations of local WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracting strategies, if appropriate.
(3) Conduct other activities that comply with limitations on the use of the Governor's Reserve.
(b) Using non-Federal funds, Governors may establish incentives for Local WDBs to implement WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies as described in this subpart.
(c) In the case of a State in which local areas are implementing WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies, the State must:
(1) Collect and report to the Department data on the performance of service providers entering into WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts, measured against the levels of performance benchmarks specified in the contracts, pursuant to sec. 116(d)(2)(K) of WIOA and § 677.160 of this chapter and in accordance with any additional guidance issued by the Secretary.
(2) Collect and report to the Department State and/or local evaluations of the design and performance of the WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies, and, where possible, the level of satisfaction with the strategies among employers and participants benefitting from the strategies, pursuant to sec. 116(d)(2)(K) of WIOA and § 677.160 of this chapter, and in accordance with any guidance issued by the Secretary.
(3) Monitor local areas' use of WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies to ensure compliance with § 683.500 and the contract specifications in § 683.510, and State procurement policies.
(4) Monitor local areas' expenditures to ensure that no more than 10 percent of a local area's adult and dislocated worker allotments and no more than 10 percent of a local area's youth allotment is reserved and used on WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies.
(d) The Secretary will issue additional guidance on State roles in WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategies.

# Subpart F—Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
§ 683.600
What local area, State, and direct recipient grievance procedures must be established?
(a) Each local area, State, outlying area, and direct recipient of funds under title I of WIOA, except for Job Corps, must establish and maintain a procedure for participants and other interested parties to file grievances and complaints alleging violations of the requirements of title I of WIOA, according to the requirements of this section. The grievance procedure requirements applicable to Job Corps are set forth at §§ 686.960 and 686.965 of this chapter.
(b) Each local area, State, and direct recipient must:
(1) Provide information about the content of the grievance and complaint procedures required by this section to participants and other interested parties affected by the local workforce development system, including one-stop partners and service providers;
(2) Require that every entity to which it awards title I funds provide the information referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to participants receiving title I-funded services from such entities; and
(3) Must make reasonable efforts to assure that the information referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be understood by affected participants and other individuals, including youth and those who are limited-English speaking individuals. Such efforts must comply with the language requirements of 29 CFR 37.35 regarding the provision of services and information in languages other than English.
(c) Local area procedures must provide:
(1) A process for dealing with grievances and complaints from participants and other interested parties affected by the local workforce development system, including one-stop partners and service providers;
(2) An opportunity for an informal resolution and a hearing to be completed within 60 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint;
(3) A process which allows an individual alleging a labor standards violation to submit the grievance to a binding arbitration procedure, if a collective bargaining agreement covering the parties to the grievance so provides; and
(4) An opportunity for a local level appeal to a State entity when:
(i) No decision is reached within 60 days; or
(ii) Either party is dissatisfied with the local hearing decision.
(d) State procedures must provide:
(1) A process for dealing with grievances and complaints from participants and other interested parties affected by the statewide Workforce Investment programs;
(2) A process for resolving appeals made under paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(3) A process for remanding grievances and complaints related to the local Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act programs to the local area grievance process; and
(4) An opportunity for an informal resolution and a hearing to be completed within 60 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint; and
(5) An opportunity for appeal to the Secretary under the circumstances described in § 683.610(a).
(e) Procedures of direct recipients must provide:
(1) A process for dealing with grievance and complaints from participants and other interested parties affected by the recipient's Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act programs; and
(2) An opportunity for an informal resolution and a hearing to be completed within 60 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint.
(f) The remedies that may be imposed under local, State, and direct recipient grievance procedures are enumerated at WIOA sec. 181(c)(3).
(g)(1) The provisions of this section on grievance procedures do not apply to discrimination complaints brought under WIOA sec. 188 and/or 29 CFR part 38. Such complaints must be handled in accordance with the procedures set forth in that regulatory part.
(2) Questions about or complaints alleging a violation of the nondiscrimination provisions of WIOA sec. 188 may be directed or mailed to the Director, Civil Rights Center, U.S. Department of Labor, Room N4123, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210, for processing.
(h) Nothing in this subpart precludes a grievant or complainant from pursuing a remedy authorized under another Federal, State, or local law.
§ 683.610
What processes does the Secretary use to review grievances and complaints of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I recipients?
(a) The Secretary investigates allegations arising through the grievance procedures described in § 683.600 when:
(1) A decision on a grievance or complaint under § 683.600(d) has not been reached within 60 days of receipt of the grievance or complaint or within 60 days of receipt of the request for appeal of a local level grievance and either party appeals to the Secretary; or
(2) A decision on a grievance or complaint under § 683.600(d) has been reached and the party to which such decision is adverse appeals to the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary must make a final decision on an appeal under paragraph (a) of this section no later than 120 days after receiving the appeal.
(c) Appeals made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be filed within 60 days of the receipt of the decision being appealed. Appeals made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be filed within 120 days of the filing of the grievance with the State, or the filing of the appeal of a local grievance with the State. All appeals must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the appropriate ETA Regional Administrator and the opposing party.
(d) Except for complaints arising under WIOA sec. 184(f) or sec. 188, grievances or complaints made directly to the Secretary will be referred to the appropriate State or local area for resolution in accordance with this section, unless the Department notifies the parties that the Department of Labor will investigate the grievance under the procedures at § 683.430. Discrimination complaints brought under WIOA sec. 184(f) or sec. 188 or 29 CFR part 38 will be referred to the Director of the Civil Rights Center.
(e) Complaints and grievances from participants receiving services under the Wagner-Peyser Act will follow the
procedures outlined at part 658 of this chapter.
§ 683.620
How are complaints and reports of criminal fraud and abuse addressed under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Information and complaints involving criminal fraud, waste, abuse or other criminal activity must be reported immediately through the Department's Incident Reporting System to the Department of Labor Office of Inspector General, Office of Investigations, Room S5514, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210, or to the corresponding Regional Inspector General for Investigations, with a copy simultaneously provided to the Employment and Training Administration. The Hotline number is 1-800-347-3756. The Web site is
http://www.oig.dol.gov/contact.htm.
(b) Complaints of a non-criminal nature may be handled under the procedures set forth in § 683.600 or through the Department's Incident Reporting System.
§ 683.630
What additional appeal processes or systems must a State have for the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act program?
(a) Non-designation of local areas:
(1) The State must establish, and include in its State Plan, due process procedures which provide expeditious appeal to the State WDB for a unit of general local government (including a combination of such units) or grant recipient that requests, but is not granted, initial or subsequent designation of an area as a local area under WIOA sec. 106(b)(2) or 106(b)(3) and § 679.250 of this chapter.
(2) These procedures must provide an opportunity for a hearing and prescribe appropriate time limits to ensure prompt resolution of the appeal.
(3) If the appeal to the State WDB does not result in designation, the appellant may request review by the Secretary under § 683.640.
(b) Denial or termination of eligibility as a training provider:
(1) A State must establish procedures which allow providers of training services the opportunity to appeal:
(i) Denial of eligibility by a Local WDB or the designated State agency under WIOA sec. 122(b), 122(c), or 122(d).
(ii) Termination of eligibility or other action by a Local WDB or State agency under WIOA sec. 122(f); or
(iii) Denial of eligibility as a provider of on-the-job training (OJT) or customized training by a one-stop operator under WIOA sec. 122(h).
(2) Such procedures must provide an opportunity for a hearing and prescribe appropriate time limits to ensure prompt resolution of the appeal.
(3) A decision under this State appeal process may not be appealed to the Secretary.
(c) Testing and sanctioning for use of controlled substances.
(1) A State must establish due process procedures, in accordance with WIOA sec. 181(f), which provide expeditious appeal for:
(i) Participants in programs under title I, subtitle B of WIOA subject to testing for use of controlled substances, imposed under a State policy established under WIOA sec. 181(f)(1); and
(ii) Participants in programs under title I, subtitle B of WIOA who are sanctioned, in accordance with WIOA sec. 181(f)(2), after testing positive for the use of controlled substances, under the policy described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) A decision under this State appeal process may not be appealed to the Secretary.
§ 683.640
What procedures apply to the appeals of non-designation of local areas?
(a) A unit of general local government (including a combination of such units) or grant recipient whose appeal of the denial of a request for initial or subsequent designation as a local area to the State WDB has not resulted in such designation, may appeal the State WDB's denial to the Secretary.
(b) Appeals made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the denial from the State WDB, and must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave.
NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the State WDB.
(c) The appellant must establish that it was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process set forth in the State Plan, or establish that it meets the requirements for designation in WIOA sec. 106(b)(2) or 106(b)(3) and § 679.250 of this chapter.
(d) If the Secretary determines that the appellant has met its burden of establishing that it was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process set forth in the State Plan, or that it meets the requirements for designation in WIOA sec. 106(b)(2) or 106(b)(3) and § 679.250 of this chapter, the Secretary may require that the area be designated as a local area. In making this determination, the Secretary may consider any comments submitted by the State WDB in response to the appeal made under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) The Secretary must issue a written decision to the Governor and the appellant.
§ 683.650
What procedures apply to the appeals of the Governor's imposition of sanctions for substantial violations or performance failures by a local area?
(a) A local area which has been found in substantial violation of WIOA title I, and has received notice from the Governor that either all or part of the local plan will be revoked or that a reorganization will occur, may appeal such sanctions to the Secretary under WIOA sec. 184(b). The appeal must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the revoked plan or imposed reorganization.
(b) The sanctions described in paragraph (a) of this section do not become effective until:
(1) The time for appeal has expired; or
(2) The Secretary has issued the decision described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) A local area which has failed to meet local performance indicators for 3 consecutive program years, and has received the Governor's notice of intent to impose a reorganization plan, may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise such plan, in accordance with § 677.225 of this chapter.
(d) Appeals to the Secretary made under paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.
(e) The Secretary will notify the Governor and the appellant in writing of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (a) of this section within 45 days after receipt of the appeal. In making this determination, the Secretary may consider any comments submitted by the Governor in response to the appeals.

# Subpart G—Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
§ 683.700
When can the Secretary impose sanctions and corrective actions on recipients and subrecipients of title I Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds?
(a)
Applicability.
(1) Except for actions under WIOA secs. 116 and 188(a) or 29 CFR parts 31, 32, 35, and 38 and 49 CFR part 25, the Grant Officer must use the procedures outlined in § 683.440 before imposing a sanction on, or requiring corrective action by, recipients of funds under title I of WIOA.
(2) To impose a sanction or corrective action for a violation of WIOA sec. 188(a) the Department will use the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 38.
(3) To impose a sanction or corrective action for a violation of WIOA sec. 116 the Department will use the procedures set forth in part 677 of this chapter.
(b)
States.
When a Grant Officer determines that the Governor has not fulfilled its requirements under 2 CFR part 200, an audit, or a monitoring compliance review set forth at sec. 184(a)(4) of WIOA and § 683.410, or has not taken corrective action to remedy a violation as required by WIOA secs. 184(a)(5) and 184(b)(1), the Grant Officer must require the Governor to impose the necessary corrective actions set forth at WIOA secs. 184(a)(5) and 184(b)(1), or may require repayment of funds under WIOA sec. 184(c). If the
Secretary determines it is necessary to protect the funds or ensure the proper operation of a program or activity, the Secretary may immediately suspend or terminate financial assistance in accordance with WIOA sec. 184(e).
(c)
Local areas.
If the Governor fails to promptly take the actions specified in WIOA sec. 184(b)(1) when it determines that a local area has failed to comply with the requirements described in § 683.720(a), and that the local area has not taken the necessary corrective action, the Grant Officer may impose such actions directly against the local area.
(d)
Direct grant recipients.
When the Grant Officer determines that a direct grant recipient of subtitle D of title I of WIOA has not taken corrective action to remedy a substantial violation as the result of noncompliance with 2 CFR part 200, the Grant Officer may impose sanctions against the grant recipient.
(e)
Subrecipients.
The Grant Officer may impose a sanction directly against a subrecipient, as authorized in WIOA sec. 184(d)(3) and 2 CFR 200.338. In such a case, the Grant Officer will inform the direct grant recipient of the action.
§ 683.710
Who is responsible for funds provided under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?
(a) The recipient of the funds is responsible for all funds under its grant(s) awarded under WIOA title I and the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(b)(1) The local government's chief elected official(s) in a local area is liable for any misuse of the WIOA grant funds allocated to the local area under WIOA secs. 128 and 133, unless the chief elected official(s) reaches an agreement with the Governor to bear such liability.
(2) When a local workforce area or region is composed of more than one unit of general local government, the liability of the individual jurisdictions must be specified in a written agreement between the chief elected officials.
(3) When there is a change in the chief elected official(s), the Local WDB is required to inform the new chief elected official(s), in a timely manner, of their responsibilities and liabilities as well as the need to review and update any written agreements among the chief elected official(s).
(4) The use of a fiscal agent does not relieve the chief elected official, or Governor if designated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, of responsibility for any misuse of grant funds allocated to the local area under WIOA secs. 128 and 133.
§ 683.720
What actions are required to address the failure of a local area to comply with the applicable uniform administrative provisions?
(a) If, as part of the annual on-site monitoring of local areas, the Governor determines that a local area is not in compliance with 2 CFR part 200, including the failure to make the required disclosures in accordance with 2 CFR 200.113 or the failure to disclose all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery or gratuity violations, the Governor must:
(1) Require corrective action to secure prompt compliance; and
(2) Impose the sanctions provided for at WIOA sec. 184(b) if the Governor finds that the local area has failed to take timely corrective action.
(b) An action by the Governor to impose a sanction against a local area, in accordance with this section, may be appealed to the Secretary in accordance with § 683.650.
(c)(1) If the Secretary finds that the Governor has failed to monitor and certify compliance of local areas with the administrative requirements under WIOA sec. 184(a), or that the Governor has failed to take the actions promptly required upon a determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary must take the action described in § 683.700(b).
(2) If the Governor fails to take the corrective actions required by the Secretary under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary may immediately suspend or terminate financial assistance under WIOA sec. 184(e).
§ 683.730
When can the Secretary waive the imposition of sanctions?
(a)(1) A recipient of title I funds may request that the Secretary waive the imposition of sanctions authorized under WIOA sec. 184.
(2) A Grant officer may approve the waiver described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the grant officer finds that the recipient has demonstrated substantial compliance with the requirements of WIOA sec. 184(d)(2).
(b)(1) When the debt for which a waiver request was established in a non-Federal resolution proceeding, the resolution report must accompany the waiver request.
(2) When the waiver request is made during the ETA Grant Officer resolution process, the request must be made during the informal resolution period described in § 683.440(c).
(c) A waiver of the recipient's liability must be considered by the Grant Officer only when:
(1) The misexpenditure of WIOA funds occurred at a subrecipient's level;
(2) The misexpenditure was not due to willful disregard of the requirements of title I of WIOA, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration, and did not constitute fraud or failure to make the required disclosures in accordance with 2 CFR 200.113 addressing all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery or gratuity violations (2 CFR part 180 and 31 U.S.C. 3321)
(3) If fraud did exist, was perpetrated against the recipient/subrecipients, and:
(i) The recipient/subrecipients discovered, investigated, reported, and cooperated in any prosecution of the perpetrator of the fraud; and
(ii) After aggressive debt collection action, it has been documented that further attempts at debt collection from the perpetrator of the fraud would be inappropriate or futile;
(4) The recipient has issued a final determination which disallows the misexpenditure, the recipient's appeal process has been exhausted, and a debt has been established; and
(5) The recipient provides documentation to demonstrate that it has substantially complied with the requirements of WIOA sec. 184(d)(2) and this section.
(d) The recipient will not be released from liability for misspent funds under the determination required by WIOA sec. 184(d) unless the Grant Officer determines that further collection action, either by the recipient or subrecipient(s), would be inappropriate or would prove futile.
§ 683.740
What is the procedure to handle a recipient of title I Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds' request for advance approval of contemplated corrective actions?
(a) The recipient may request advance approval from the Grant Officer for contemplated corrective actions, including debt collection actions, which the recipient plans to initiate or to forego. The recipient's request must include a description and an assessment of all actions taken to collect the misspent funds.
(b) Based on the recipient's request, the Grant Officer may determine that the recipient may forego certain debt collection actions against a subrecipient when:
(1) The subrecipient meets the criteria set forth in WIOA sec. 184(d)(2);
(2) The misexpenditure of funds:
(i) Was not made by that subrecipient but by an entity that received WIOA funds from that subrecipient;
(ii) Was not a violation of WIOA sec. 184(d)(1), did not constitute fraud, or failure to disclose, in a timely manner, all violations of Federal criminal law involving fraud, bribery, or gratuity violations potentially affecting the Federal award; or
(iii) If fraud did exist:
(A) It was perpetrated against the subrecipient;
(B) The subrecipient discovered, investigated, reported, and cooperated in any prosecution of the perpetrator of the fraud; and
(C) After aggressive debt collection action, it has been documented that further attempts at debt collection from the perpetrator of the fraud would be inappropriate or futile;
(3) A determination which disallows the misexpenditure and establishes a debt has been issued at the appropriate level; and,
(4) Further debt collection action by that subrecipient or the recipient would be either inappropriate or futile.
§ 683.750
What procedure must be used for administering the offset/deduction provisions of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a)(1) For misexpenditures by direct recipients of title I and Wagner-Peyser Act formula funds the Grant Officer may determine that a debt, or a portion thereof, may be offset against amounts that are allotted to the recipient. Recipients must submit a written request for an offset to the Grant Officer. Generally, the Grant Officer will apply the offset against amounts that are available at the recipient level for administrative costs.
(2) The Grant Officer may approve an offset request, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the misexpenditures were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of WIOA and regulations, fraud, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure.
(b) For subrecipient misexpenditures that were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of WIOA and regulations, fraud, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure, if the Grant Officer has required the State to repay or offset such amount, the State may deduct an amount equal to the misexpenditure from the subrecipient's allocation of the program year after the determination was made. Deductions are to be made from funds reserved for the administrative costs of the local programs involved, as appropriate.
(c) If offset is granted, the debt will not be fully satisfied until the Grant Officer reduces amounts allotted to the recipient by the amount of the misexpenditure.
(d) For recipients of funds under title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds, a direct recipient may not make a deduction under paragraph (b) of this section until the State has taken appropriate corrective action to ensure full compliance within the local area with regard to appropriate expenditure of WIOA funds.

# Subpart H—Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
§ 683.800
What actions of the Department may be appealed to the Office of Administrative Law Judges?
(a) An applicant for financial assistance under title I of WIOA who is dissatisfied by a determination not to award Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to such applicant; or a recipient, subrecipient, or a contractor against which the Grant Officer has directly imposed a sanction or corrective action under sec. 184 of WIOA, including a sanction against a State under part 677 of this chapter, may appeal to the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) within 21 days of receipt of the final determination.
(b) Failure to request a hearing within 21 days of receipt of the final determination constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(c) A request for a hearing under this subpart must specifically state those issues or findings in the final determination upon which review is requested. Issues or findings in the final determination not specified for review, or the entire final determination when no hearing has been requested within the 21 days, are considered resolved and not subject to further review. Only alleged violations of WIOA, its regulations, the grant or other agreement under WIOA raised in the final determination and the request for hearing are subject to review.
(d) A request for a hearing must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, with one copy to the Departmental official who issued the determination.
(e) The procedures in this subpart apply in the case of a complainant who has engaged in the alternative dispute resolution process set forth in § 683.840, if neither a settlement was reached nor a decision issued within the 60 days, except that the request for hearing before the OALJ must be filed within 15 days of the conclusion of the 60-day period provided in § 683.840. In addition to including the final determination upon which review is requested, the complainant must include a copy of any
Stipulation of Facts and a brief summary of proceedings.
[81 FR 56410, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 683.810
What rules of procedure apply to hearings conducted under this subpart?
(a)
Rules of practice and procedure.
The rules of practice and procedure promulgated by the OALJ at subpart A of 29 CFR part 18, govern the conduct of hearings under this subpart. However, a request for hearing under this subpart is not considered a complaint to which the filing of an answer by the Department or a Department agency or official is required. Technical rules of evidence will not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this part. However, rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to cross-examination will apply.
(b)
Prehearing procedures.
In all cases, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) should encourage the use of prehearing procedures to simplify and clarify facts and issues.
(c)
Subpoenas.
Subpoenas necessary to secure the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents or other items at hearings must be obtained from the ALJ and must be issued under the authority contained in WIOA sec. 183(c), incorporating 15 U.S.C. 49.
(d)
Timely submission of evidence.
The ALJ must not permit the introduction at the hearing of any documentation if it has not been made available for review by the other parties to the proceeding either at the time ordered for any prehearing conference, or, in the absence of such an order, at least 3 weeks prior to the hearing date.
(e)
Burden of production.
The Grant Officer has the burden of production to support her or his decision. This burden is satisfied once the Grant Officer prepares and files an administrative file in support of the decision which must be made part of the record. Thereafter, the party or parties seeking to overturn the Grant Officer's decision has the burden of persuasion.
§ 683.820
What authority does the Administrative Law Judge have in ordering relief as an outcome of an administrative hearing?
(a) In ordering relief the ALJ has the full authority of the Secretary under WIOA, except as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) In grant selection appeals of awards funded under WIOA title I, subtitle D:
(1) If the Administrative Law Judge rules, under § 683.800, that the appealing organization should have been selected for an award, the matter must be remanded to the Grant Officer. The Grant Officer must, within 10 working days, determine whether the organization continues to meet the requirements of the applicable solicitation, whether the funds which are the subject of the ALJ's decision will be awarded to the organization, and the timing of the award. In making this determination, the Grant Officer must take into account disruption to participants, disruption to grantees, and the operational needs of the program.
(2) If the Administrative Law Judge rules that additional application review is required, the Grant Officer must implement that review and, if a new organization is selected, follow the steps laid out in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine whether the grant funds will be awarded to that organization.
(3) In the event that the Grant Officer determines that the funds will not be awarded to the appealing organization for the reasons discussed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an organization which does not have an approved Negotiated Indirect Cost Rate Agreement will be awarded its reasonable application preparation costs.
(4) If funds are awarded to the appealing organization, the Grant Officer will notify the current grantee within 10 days. In addition, the appealing organization is not entitled to the full grant amount but only will receive the funds remaining in the grant that have not been obligated by the current grantee through its operation of the grant and its subsequent closeout.
(5) In the event that an organization, other than the appealing organization,
is adversely effected by the Grant Officer's determination upon completion of the additional application review under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that organization may appeal that decision to the Office of Administrative Law Judges by following the procedures set forth in § 683.800.
(6) Any organization selected and/or funded under WIOA title I, subtitle D, is subject to having its award removed if an ALJ decision so orders. As part of this process, the Grant Officer will provide instructions on transition and closeout to both the newly selected grantee and to the grantee whose position is affected or which is being removed. All awardees must agree to the provisions of this paragraph (b) as a condition of accepting a grant award.
§ 683.830
When will the Administrative Law Judge issue a decision?
(a) The ALJ should render a written decision not later than 90 days after the closing of the record.
(b) The decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action unless, within 20 days of the decision, a party dissatisfied with the ALJ's decision has filed a petition for review with the Administrative Review Board (ARB) (established under Secretary's Order No. 01-2020), specifically identifying the procedure, fact, law, or policy to which exception is taken, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Any exception not specifically raised in the petition is deemed to have been waived. A copy of the petition for review also must be sent to the opposing party and if an applicant or recipient, to the Grant Officer and the Grant Officer's Counsel at the time of filing. Unless the ARB, within 30 days of the filing of the petition for review, notifies the parties that the case has been accepted for review, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action. In any case accepted by the ARB, a decision must be issued by the ARB within 180 days of acceptance. If a decision is not so issued, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action.
[81 FR 56410, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 13030, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30616, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 683.840
Is there an alternative dispute resolution process that may be used in place of an Office of Administrative Law Judges hearing?
(a) The parties to a complaint which has been filed according to the requirements of § 683.800 may choose to waive their rights to an administrative hearing before the OALJ. Instead, they may choose to transfer the settlement of their dispute to an individual acceptable to all parties who will conduct an informal review of the stipulated facts and render a decision in accordance with applicable law. A written decision must be issued within 60 days after submission of the matter for informal review.
(b) The waiver of the right to request a hearing before the OALJ described in paragraph (a) of this section will automatically be revoked if a settlement has not been reached or a written decision has not been issued within the 60 days provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The decision rendered under this informal review process will be treated as a final decision of an Administrative Law Judge under WIOA sec. 186(b).
§ 683.850
Is there judicial review of a final order of the Secretary issued under WIOA?
(a) Any party to a proceeding which resulted in a Secretary's final order under WIOA sec. 186 in which the Secretary awards, declines to award, or only conditionally awards financial assistance or with respect to a corrective action or sanction imposed under WIOA sec. 184 may obtain a review in the United States Court of Appeals having jurisdiction over the applicant or recipient of funds involved, by filing a review petition within 30 days of the issuance of the Secretary's final order in accordance with WIOA sec. 187.
(b) The court has jurisdiction to make and enter a decree affirming, modifying, or setting aside the order of the Secretary, in whole or in part.
(c) No objection to the Secretary's order may be considered by the court unless the objection was specifically urged, in a timely manner, before the Secretary. The review is limited to questions of law, and the findings of
fact of the Secretary are conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.
(d) The judgment of the court is final, subject to certiorari review by the United States Supreme Court.
Pt. 684

# PART 684—INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—Purposes and Policies
Sec.
684.100
What is the purpose of the programs established to serve Indians and Native Americans under of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
684.110
How must Indian and Native American programs be administered?
684.120
What obligation does the Department have to consult with the Indian and Native American program grantee community in developing rules, regulations, and standards of accountability for Indian and Native American programs?
684.130
What definitions apply to terms used in this part?

# Subpart B—Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
684.200
What are the requirements to apply for a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?
684.210
What priority for awarding grants is given to eligible organizations?
684.220
What is the process for applying for a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?
684.230
What appeal rights are available to entities that are denied a grant award?
684.240
Are there any other ways in which an entity may be awarded a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?
684.250
Can an Indian and Native American program grantee's grant award be terminated?
684.260
Does the Department have to award a grant for every part of the country?
684.270
How are Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds allocated to Indian and Native American program grantees?

# Subpart C—Services to Customers
684.300
Who is eligible to receive services under the Indian and Native American program?
684.310
What are Indian and Native American program grantee allowable activities?
684.320
Are there any restrictions on allowable activities?
684.330
What is the role of Indian and Native American program grantees in the one-stop delivery system?
684.340
What policies govern payments to participants, including wages, training allowances or stipends, or direct payments for supportive services?
684.350
What will the Department do to strengthen the capacity of Indian and Native American program grantees to deliver effective services?

# Subpart D—Supplemental Youth Services
684.400
What is the purpose of the supplemental youth services program?
684.410
What entities are eligible to receive supplemental youth services funding?
684.420
What are the planning requirements for receiving supplemental youth services funding?
684.430
What individuals are eligible to receive supplemental youth services?
684.440
How is funding for supplemental youth services determined?
684.450
How will supplemental youth services be provided?
684.460
What performance indicators are applicable to the supplemental youth services program?

# Subpart E—Services to Communities
684.500
What services may Indian and Native American program grantees provide to or for employers under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
684.510
What services may Indian and Native American program grantees provide to the community at large under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
684.520
Must Indian and Native American program grantees give preference to Indian and Native American entities in the selection of contractors or service providers?
684.530
What rules govern the issuance of contracts and/or subgrants?

# Subpart F—Accountability for Services and Expenditures
684.600
To whom is the Indian and Native American program grantee accountable for the provision of services and the expenditure of Indian and Native American funds?
684.610
How is this accountability documented and fulfilled?
684.620
What performance indicators are in place for the Indian and Native American program?
684.630
What are the requirements for preventing fraud and abuse under the WIOA?
684.640
What grievance systems must an Indian and Native American program grantee provide?
684.650
Can Indian and Native American program grantees exclude segments of the eligible population?

# Subpart G—Section 166 Planning/Funding Process
684.700
What is the process for submitting a 4-year plan?
684.710
What information must be included in the 4-year plans as part of the competitive application?
684.720
When must the 4-year plan be submitted?
684.730
How will the Department review and approve such plans?
684.740
Under what circumstances can the Department or the Indian and Native American program grantee modify the terms of the grantee's plan(s)?

# Subpart H—Administrative Requirements
684.800
What systems must an Indian and Native American program grantee have in place to administer an Indian and Native American program?
684.810
What types of costs are allowable expenditures under the Indian and Native American program?
684.820
What rules apply to administrative costs under the Indian and Native American program?
684.830
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act administrative cost limit for States and local areas apply to WIOA grants?
684.840
How must Indian and Native American program grantees classify costs?
684.850
What cost principles apply to Indian and Native American funds?
684.860
What audit requirements apply to Indian and Native American grants?
684.870
What is “program income” and how is it regulated in the Indian and Native American program?

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous Program Provisions
684.900
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act provide regulatory and/or statutory waiver authority?
684.910
What information is required in a waiver request?
684.920
What provisions of law or regulations may not be waived?
684.930
May Indian and Native American program grantees combine or consolidate their employment and training funds?
684.940
What is the role of the Native American Employment and Training Council?
684.950
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act provide any additional assistance to unique populations in Alaska and Hawaii?

# Authority:
Secs. 134, 166, 189, 503, Public Law 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56428, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purposes and Policies
§ 684.100
What is the purpose of the programs established to serve Indians and Native Americans under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) The purpose of WIOA Indian and Native American (INA) programs in sec. 166 is to support employment and training activities for INAs in order to:
(1) Develop more fully the academic, occupational, and literacy skills of such individuals;
(2) Make such individuals more competitive in the workforce and to equip them with entrepreneurial skills necessary for successful self-employment; and
(3) Promote the economic and social development of INA communities in accordance with the goals and values of such communities.
(b) The principal means of accomplishing these purposes is to enable tribes and Native American organizations to provide employment and training services to INAs and their communities. Services should be provided in a culturally appropriate manner, consistent with the principles of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
).
§ 684.110
How must Indian and Native American programs be administered?
(a) INA programs will be administered to maximize the Federal commitment to support the growth and development of INAs and their communities as determined by representatives of such communities.
(b) In administering these programs, the Department will follow the Congressional declaration of policy set forth in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, at 25 U.S.C. 450a, as well as the Department of Labor's “American Indian and Alaska Native Policies.”
(c) The regulations in this part are not intended to abrogate the trust responsibilities of the Federal government to Federally recognized tribes in any way.
(d) The Department will administer INA programs through a single organizational unit and consistent with the requirements in sec. 166(i) of WIOA. The Division of Indian and Native American Programs (DINAP) within the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) is designated as this single organizational unit as required by sec. 166(i)(1) of WIOA.
(e) The Department will establish and maintain administrative procedures for the selection, administration, monitoring, and evaluation of INA employment and training programs authorized under this Act.
§ 684.120
What obligation does the Department have to consult with the Indian and Native American grantee community in developing rules, regulations, and standards of accountability for Indian and Native American programs?
The Department's primary consultation vehicle for INA programs is the Native American Employment and Training Council. In addition, the Department will consult with the INA program grantee community in developing policies for the INA programs, actively seeking and considering the views of INA program grantees prior to establishing INA program policies and regulations. The Department will follow the Department of Labor's tribal consultation policy and Executive Order 13175 of November 6, 2000.
§ 684.130
What definitions apply to terms used in this part?
In addition to the definitions found in secs. 3 and 166 of WIOA, and § 675.300 of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
Alaska Native-Controlled Organization
means an organization whose governing board is comprised of 51 percent or more of individuals who are Alaska Native as defined in secs. 3(b) and 3(r) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b), (r)).
Carry-in
means the total amount of funds unobligated by a grantee at the end of a program year. If the amount of funds unobligated by a grantee at the end of a program year is more than 20 percent of the grantee's “total funds available” for that program year, such excess amount is considered “excess carry-in.”
DINAP
means the Division of Indian and Native American Programs within the Employment and Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Governing body
means a body of representatives who are duly elected, appointed by duly elected officials, or selected according to traditional tribal means. A governing body must have the authority to provide services to and to enter into grants on behalf of the organization that selected or designated it.
Grant Officer
means a U.S. Department of Labor official authorized to obligate Federal funds.
High-poverty area
means a Census tract, a set of contiguous Census tracts, an American Indian Reservation, Oklahoma Tribal Statistical Area, Alaska Native Village Statistical Area, or Alaska Native Regional Corporation Area, Native Hawaiian Homeland Area or county where the poverty rate for the INA population is at least 25 percent of the total INA population of such area using the most recent ACS 5-Year data. Alternatively, high-poverty also can mean, a Census tract, a set of contiguous Census tracts, an American Indian Reservation, Oklahoma Tribal Statistical Area, Alaska Native Village Statistical Area, or Alaska Native Regional Corporation Area, Native Hawaiian Homeland Area or county where the poverty rate for the total population is at least 25 percent of such area using the most recent ACS 5-Year data. INA program grantees may use either definition when determining if a Census tract is a high-poverty area.
INA program grantee
means an entity which is formally selected under subpart B of this part to operate an INA program and which has a grant agreement.
Incumbent grantee
means an entity that is currently receiving a grant under sec. 166 of WIOA.
Indian and Native American or INA
means, for the purpose of this part, an
individual that is an American Indian, Native American, Native Hawaiian, or Alaska Native.
Indian-Controlled Organization
means an organization whose governing board is comprised of 51 percent or more individuals who are members of one or more Federally recognized tribes. Incumbent grantees who were receiving INA funding as of October 18, 2016 and met the 51 percent threshold with the inclusion of members of “State recognized tribes” continue to be eligible for WIOA sec. 166 funds as an Indian-Controlled Organization, as long as they have been continuously funded under WIOA as recipients of INA program grantees since October 18, 2016. Tribal Colleges and Universities meet the definition of Indian-Controlled Organization for the purposes of this regulation.
Native Hawaiian-Controlled Organization
means an organization whose governing board is comprised of 51 percent or more individuals who are Native Hawaiian as defined in sec. 7207 of the Native Hawaiian Education Act (20 U.S.C. 7517).
Total funds available
means all funds that a grantee had “available” at the beginning of a program year.
Underemployed
means an individual who is working part-time but desires full-time employment, or who is working in employment not commensurate with the individual's demonstrated level of educational and/or skill achievement.

# Subpart B—Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
§ 684.200
What are the requirements to apply for a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?
(a) To be eligible to apply for a WIOA, sec. 166 grant, an entity must have legal status as a government or as an agency of a government, private non-profit corporation, or a consortium whose members all qualify as one of these entities.
(b) A new entity (which is not an incumbent grantee) must have a population within the designated geographic service area which would receive at least $100,000 under the funding formula found at § 684.270(b), including any amounts received for supplemental youth services under the funding formula at § 684.440(a).
(c) Incumbent grantees which do not meet this dollar threshold and were receiving INA funding of less than $100,000 as of October 18, 2016 will be grandfathered into the program and are eligible to be awarded less than $100,000 so long as the grantees have continuously received less than $100,000 since October 18, 2016.
(d) The Department will make an exception to the $100,000 minimum for applicants that apply for WIOA funding through Public Law 102-477, the Indian, Employment, Training, and Related Services demonstration program, if all resources to be consolidated under the Public Law 102-477 plan total at least $100,000, with at least $20,000 derived from sec. 166 funds. However, incumbent Public Law 102-477 grantees that were receiving INA funding of less than $20,000 as of October 18, 2016 will be grandfathered into the program and are eligible to be awarded less than $20,000 so long as the grantees have continuously received less than $20,000 since October 18, 2016.
(e) To be eligible to apply as a consortium, each member of the consortium must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and must:
(1) Be in close proximity to one another, but may operate in more than one State;
(2) Have an administrative unit legally authorized to run the program and to commit the other members to contracts, grants, and other legally-binding agreements; and
(3) Be jointly and individually responsible for the actions and obligations of the consortium, including debts.
(f) Entities eligible under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are:
(1) Federally recognized Indian tribes;
(2) Tribal organizations, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b;
(3) Alaska Native-controlled organizations;
(4) Native Hawaiian-controlled organizations;
(5) Indian-controlled organizations serving INAs; and
(6) A consortium of eligible entities which meets the legal requirements for a consortium described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(g) State-recognized tribal organizations that meet the definition of an Indian-controlled organization are eligible to apply for WIOA sec. 166 grant funds. State-recognized tribes that do not meet this definition but were grantees under WIA as of July 1, 2015 will be grandfathered into WIOA as Indian-controlled organizations provided they meet the definition of Indian-controlled organization in § 684.130.
§ 684.210
What priority for awarding grants is given to eligible organizations?
(a) Federally recognized Indian tribes, Alaska Native entities, or a consortium of such entities will have priority to receive grants under this part for those geographic service areas in which they have legal jurisdiction, such as an Indian reservation, Oklahoma Tribal Service Area (OTSA), or Alaska Native Village Service Area (ANVSA).
(b) If the Department decides not to make an award to an Indian tribe or Alaska Native entity that has legal jurisdiction over a service area, it will consult with such tribe or Alaska Native entity that has jurisdiction before selecting another entity to provide services for such areas.
(c) The priority described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section does not apply to service areas outside the legal jurisdiction of an Indian tribe or Alaska Native entity.
§ 684.220
What is the process for applying for a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?
(a) Entities seeking a WIOA sec. 166 grant, including incumbent grantees, will be provided an opportunity to apply for a WIOA sec. 166 grant every 4 years through a competitive grant process.
(b) As part of the competitive application process, applicants will be required to submit a 4-year plan as described at § 684.710. The requirement to submit a 4-year plan does not apply to entities that have been granted approval to transfer their WIOA funds to the Department of the Interior pursuant to Public Law 102-477.
§ 684.230
What appeal rights are available to entities that are denied a grant award?
Any entity that is denied a grant award for which it applied in whole or in part may appeal the denial to the Office of the Administrative Law Judges using the procedures at § 683.800 of this chapter or the alternative dispute resolution procedures at § 683.840 of this chapter. The Grant Officer will provide an entity whose request for a grant award was denied, in whole or in part, with a copy of the appeal procedures.
§ 684.240
Are there any other ways in which an entity may be awarded a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act grant?
Yes. For areas that would otherwise go unserved, the Grant Officer may designate an entity, which has not submitted a competitive application, but which meets the qualifications for a grant award, to serve the particular geographic area. Under such circumstances, DINAP will seek the views of INA leaders in the community that would otherwise go unserved before making the decision to designate the entity that would serve the community. DINAP will inform the Grant Officer of the INA leaders' views. The Grant Officer will accommodate views of INA leaders in such areas to the extent possible.
§ 684.250
Can an Indian and Native American grantee's grant award be terminated?
(a) Yes, the Grant Officer can terminate a grantee's award for cause, or the Secretary or another Department of Labor official confirmed by the Senate can terminate a grantee's award in emergency circumstances where termination is necessary to protect the integrity of Federal funds or ensure the proper operation of the program under sec. 184(e) of WIOA.
(b) The Grant Officer may terminate a grantee's award for cause only if there is a substantial or persistent violation of the requirements in WIOA or the WIOA regulations. The grantee must be provided with written notice
60 days before termination, stating the specific reasons why termination is proposed. The appeal procedures at § 683.800 of this chapter apply.
§ 684.260
Does the Department have to award a grant for every part of the country?
No, if there are no entities meeting the requirements for a grant award in a particular area, or willing to serve that area, the Department will not award funds for that service area. The funds that otherwise would have been allocated to that area under § 684.270 will be distributed to other INA program grantees, or used for other program purposes such as technical assistance and training (TAT). Unawarded funds used for TAT are in addition to, and not subject to the limitations on, amounts reserved under § 684.270(e). Areas which are unserved by the INA program may be restored during a subsequent grant award cycle, when and if a current grantee or other eligible entity applies for a grant award to serve that area.
§ 684.270
How are Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds allocated to Indian and Native American program grantees?
(a) Except for reserved funds described in paragraph (e) of this section and funds used for other program purposes under § 684.260, all funds available for WIOA sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(i) comprehensive workforce investment services program at the beginning of a program year will be allocated to INA program grantees for the geographic service area(s) awarded to them through the grant competition.
(b) Each INA program grantee will receive the sum of the funds calculated using the following formula:
(1) One-quarter of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of unemployed American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian individuals in the grantee's geographic service area(s) compared to all such unemployed persons in the United States.
(2) Three-quarters of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian individuals in poverty in the grantee's geographic service area(s) as compared to all such persons in poverty in the United States.
(3) The data and definitions used to implement these formulas are provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
(c) In years immediately following the use of new data in the formula described in paragraph (b) of this section, based upon criteria to be described in the Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the Department may utilize a hold harmless factor to reduce the disruption in grantee services which would otherwise result from changes in funding levels. This factor will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.
(d) The Department may reallocate funds from one INA program grantee to another if a grantee is unable to serve its area for any reason, such as audit or debt problems, criminal activity, internal (political) strife, failure to adhere to or meet grant terms and conditions, or lack of ability or interest. If a grantee has excess carry-in for a program year, the Department also may readjust the awards granted under the funding formula so that an amount that equals the previous program year's carry-in will be allocated to another INA program grantee(s).
(e) The Department may reserve up to one percent of the funds appropriated under WIOA sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(i) for any program year for TAT purposes. It will consult with the Native American Employment and Training Council in planning how the TAT funds will be used, designating activities to meet the unique needs of the INA communities served by the INA program. INA program grantees also will have access to resources available to other Department programs to the extent permitted under other law.

# Subpart C—Services to Customers
§ 684.300
Who is eligible to receive services under the Indian and Native American program?
(a) A person is eligible to receive services under the INA program if that person is:
(1) An Indian, as determined by a policy of the INA program grantee. The grantee's definition must at least include anyone who is a member of a Federally-recognized tribe; or
(2) An Alaska Native, as defined in WIOA sec. 166(b)(1); or
(3) A Native Hawaiian, as defined in WIOA sec. 166(b)(3).
(b) The person also must be any one of the following:
(1) Unemployed; or
(2) Underemployed, as defined in § 684.130; or
(3) A low-income individual, as defined in sec. 3(36) of WIOA; or
(4) The recipient of a bona fide lay-off notice which has taken effect in the last 6 months or will take effect in the following 6-month period, who is unlikely to return to a previous industry or occupation, and who is in need of retraining for either employment with another employer or for job retention with the current employer; or
(5) An individual who is employed, but is determined by the grantee to be in need of employment and training services to obtain or retain employment that allows for self-sufficiency.
(c) If applicable, male applicants also must register or be registered for the Selective Service.
§ 684.310
What are Indian and Native American program grantee allowable activities?
(a) Generally, INA program grantees must make efforts to provide employment and training opportunities to eligible individuals (as described in § 684.300) who can benefit from, and who are most in need of, such opportunities. In addition, INA program grantees must make efforts to develop programs that contribute to occupational development, upward mobility, development of new careers, and opportunities for nontraditional employment.
(b) Allowable activities for INA program grantees are any services consistent with the purposes of this part that are necessary to meet the needs of INAs preparing to enter, reenter, or retain unsubsidized employment leading to self-sufficiency.
(c) Examples of career services, which may be delivered in partnership with the one-stop delivery system, are described in sec. 134(c)(2) of WIOA and § 678.430 of this chapter.
(d) Follow-up services, including counseling and supportive services for up to 12 months after the date of exit to assist participants in obtaining and retaining employment.
(e) Training services include the activities described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(D).
(f) Allowable activities specifically designed for youth, as listed in sec. 129 of WIOA, include:
(1) Tutoring, study skills training, instruction, and evidence-based dropout prevention and recovery strategies that lead to completion of the requirements for a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (including a recognized certificate of attendance or similar document for individuals with disabilities) or for a recognized postsecondary credential;
(2) Alternative secondary school services, or dropout recovery services, as appropriate;
(3) Paid and unpaid work experiences that have as a component academic and occupational education, which may include:
(i) Summer employment opportunities and other employment opportunities available throughout the school year;
(ii) Pre-apprenticeship programs;
(iii) Internships and job shadowing; and
(iv) On-the-job training opportunities;
(4) Occupational skill training, which must include priority consideration for training programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials that are aligned with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area involved;
(5) Education offered concurrently with and in the same context as workforce preparation activities and training for a specific occupation or occupational cluster;
(6) Leadership development opportunities, which may include community service and peer-centered activities encouraging responsibility and other positive social and civic behaviors, as appropriate;
(7) Supportive services as defined in WIOA sec. 3(59);
(8) Adult mentoring for the period of participation and a subsequent period, for a total of not less than 12 months;
(9) Follow-up services for not less than 12 months after the completion of participation, as appropriate;
(10) Comprehensive guidance and counseling, which may include drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral, as appropriate;
(11) Financial literacy education;
(12) Entrepreneurial skills training;
(13) Services that provide labor market and employment information about in-demand industry sectors or occupations available in the local area, such as career awareness, career counseling, and career exploration services; and
(14) Activities that help youth prepare for and transition to postsecondary education and training.
(g) In addition, allowable activities include job development and employment outreach, including:
(1) Support of the Tribal Employment Rights Office (TERO) program;
(2) Negotiation with employers to encourage them to train and hire participants;
(3) Establishment of linkages with other service providers to aid program participants;
(4) Establishment of management training programs to support tribal administration or enterprises; and
(5) Establishment of linkages with remedial education, such as adult basic education, basic literacy training, and training programs for limited English proficient (LEP) individuals, as necessary.
(h) Participants may be enrolled in more than one activity at a time and may be sequentially enrolled in multiple activities.
(i) Services may be provided to a participant in any sequence based on the particular needs of the participant.
§ 684.320
Are there any restrictions on allowable activities?
(a) Training services must be directly linked to an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the service area, or in another area to which a participant receiving such services is willing to relocate.
(b) INA program grantees must provide on-the-job training (OJT) services consistent with the definition provided in WIOA sec. 3(44) and other limitations in WIOA. Individuals in OJT must:
(1) Be compensated at the same rates, including periodic increases, as trainees or employees who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience, and skills; and
(2) Be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.
(c) In addition, OJT contracts under this title must not be entered into with employers who have:
(1) Received payments under previous contracts under WIOA or the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 and have exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued, long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits (including health benefits) and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work; or
(2) Have exhibited a pattern of violating paragraphs (b)(1) and/or (2) of this section.
(d) INA program grantees are prohibited from using funds to encourage the relocation of a business, as described in WIOA sec. 181(d) and § 683.260 of this chapter.
(e) INA program grantees must only use WIOA funds for activities that are in addition to those that would otherwise be available to the INA population in the area in the absence of such funds.
(f) INA program grantees must not spend funds on activities that displace currently employed individuals, impair existing contracts for services, or in any way affect union organizing.
(g) Under § 683.255 of this chapter, sectarian activities involving WIOA financial assistance or participants are limited in accordance with the provisions of sec. 188(a)(3) of WIOA.
§ 684.330
What is the role of Indian and Native American program grantees in the one-stop delivery system?
(a) In those local areas where an INA program grantee conducts field operations or provides substantial services, the INA program grantee is a required partner in the local one-stop delivery system and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in part 678 of this chapter. Consistent with those provisions, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the INA program grantee and the Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) over the operation of the one-stop center(s) in the Local WDB's workforce development area also must be executed. Where the Local WDB is an alternative entity under § 679.150 of this chapter, the INA program grantee must negotiate with the alternative entity on the terms of its MOU and the scope of its on-going role in the local workforce development system, as specified in §§ 678.420 and 678.500 through 678.510 of this chapter. In local areas with a large concentration of potentially eligible INA participants, which are in an INA program grantee's service area but in which the grantee does not conduct operations or provide substantial services, the INA program grantee should encourage such individuals to participate in the one-stop delivery system in that area in order to receive WIOA services.
(b) At a minimum, the MOU must contain the provisions listed in WIOA sec. 121(c) and:
(1) The exchange of information on the services available and accessible through the one-stop delivery system and the INA program;
(2) As necessary to provide referrals and case management services, the exchange of information on INA participants in the one-stop delivery system and the INA program; and
(3) Arrangements for the funding of services provided by the one-stop(s), consistent with the requirements that no expenditures may be made with INA program funds for individuals who are not eligible or for services not authorized under this part.
(c) Where the INA program grantee has failed to enter into a MOU with the Local WDB, the INA program grantee must describe in its 4-year plan the good-faith efforts made in order to negotiate an MOU with the Local WDB.
(d) Pursuant to WIOA sec. 121(h)(2)(D)(iv), INA program grantees will not be subject to the funding of the one-stop infrastructure unless otherwise agreed upon in the MOU under subpart C of part 678 of this chapter.
§ 684.340
What policies govern payments to participants, including wages, training allowances or stipends, or direct payments for supportive services?
(a) INA program grantees may pay training allowances or stipends to participants for their successful participation in and completion of education or training services (except such allowance may not be provided to participants in OJT). Allowances or stipends may not exceed the Federal or State minimum wage, whichever is higher.
(b) INA program grantees may not pay a participant in a training activity when the person fails to participate without good cause.
(c) If a participant in a WIOA-funded activity, including participants in OJT, is involved in an employer-employee relationship, that participant must be paid wages and fringe benefits at the same rates as trainees or employees who have similar training, experience and skills and which are not less than the higher of the applicable Federal, State, or local minimum wage.
(d) In accordance with the policy described in the 4-year plan submitted as part of the competitive process, INA program grantees may pay incentive bonuses to participants who meet or exceed individual employability or training goals established in writing in the individual employment plan.
(e) INA program grantees must comply with other restrictions listed in WIOA secs. 181 through 195, which apply to all programs funded under title I of WIOA, including the provisions on labor standards in WIOA sec. 181(b).
§ 684.350
What will the Department do to strengthen the capacity of Indian and Native American program grantees to deliver effective services?
The Department will provide appropriate TAT, as necessary, to INA program grantees. This TAT will assist INA program grantees to improve program performance and improve the quality of services to the target population(s), as resources permit.

# Subpart D—Supplemental Youth Services
§ 684.400
What is the purpose of the supplemental youth services program?
The purpose of this program is to provide supplemental employment and training and related services to low-income INA youth on or near Indian reservations and in Oklahoma, Alaska, or Hawaii.
§ 684.410
What entities are eligible to receive supplemental youth services funding?
Entities eligible to receive supplemental youth services funding are limited to: Those tribal, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian and Oklahoma tribal grantees funded under WIOA sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(i) or other grantees serving those areas, and entities serving the populations specified in § 684.400 that received funding under sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(ii) of the Workforce Investment Act.
§ 684.420
What are the planning requirements for receiving supplemental youth services funding?
Applicants eligible to apply for supplemental youth funding must describe the supplemental youth services they intend to provide in the 4-year plan that they will submit as part of the competitive application process. The information on youth services will be incorporated into the overall 4-year plan, which is more fully described in §§ 684.700 and 684.710, and is required for both adult and youth funds. As indicated in § 684.710(c), additional planning information required for applicants requesting supplemental youth funding will be provided in the FOA. The Department envisions that the strategy for youth funds will not be extensive; however, grantees will be required to provide the number of youth it plans to serve and projected performance outcomes. The Department also supports youth activities that preserve INA culture and will support strategies that promote INA values.
§ 684.430
What individuals are eligible to receive supplemental youth services?
(a) Participants in supplemental youth services activities must be:
(1) American Indian, Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian as determined by the INA program grantee according to § 684.300(a);
(2) Between the age of 14 and 24; and
(3) A low-income individual as defined at WIOA sec. 3(36) except up to five percent of the participants during a program year in an INA youth program may not be low-income individuals provided they meet the eligibility requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b) For the purpose of this section, the term “low-income,” used with respect to an individual, also includes a youth living in a high-poverty area.
§ 684.440
How is funding for supplemental youth services determined?
(a) Supplemental youth funding will be allocated to eligible INA program grantees on the basis of the relative number of INA youth between the ages of 14 and 24 living in poverty in the grantee's geographic service area compared to the number of INA youth between the ages of 14 and 24 living in poverty in all eligible geographic service areas. The Department reserves the right to redefine the supplemental youth funding stream in future program years, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, as program experience warrants and as appropriate data become available.
(b) The data used to implement this formula are provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
(c) The hold harmless factor described in § 684.270(c) also applies to supplemental youth services funding. This factor also will be determined in
consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.
(d) The reallocation provisions of § 684.270(d) also apply to supplemental youth services funding.
(e) Any supplemental youth services funds not allotted to a grantee or refused by a grantee may be used for the purposes outlined in § 684.270(e), as described in § 684.260. Any such funds are in addition to, and not subject to the limitations on, amounts reserved under § 684.270(e).
§ 684.450
How will supplemental youth services be provided?
(a) INA program grantees may offer supplemental services to youth throughout the school year, during the summer vacation, and/or during other breaks during the school year at their discretion.
(b) The Department encourages INA program grantees to work with local educational agencies to provide academic credit for youth activities whenever possible.
(c) INA program grantees may provide participating youth with the activities referenced in § 684.310(e).
§ 684.460
What performance indicators are applicable to the supplemental youth services program?
(a) Pursuant to WIOA secs. 166(e)(5) and 166(h), the performance indicators at WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) apply to the INA youth program, which must include:
(1) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(2) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(3) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(4) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (subject to WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(iii)) during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program;
(5) The percentage of program participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains toward such a credential or employment; and
(6) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit.
(b) In addition to the performance indicators in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, must develop a set of performance indicators and standards that is in addition to the primary indicators of performance that are applicable to the INA program under this section.
[81 FR 56428, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13613, Feb. 23, 2024]

# Subpart E—Services to Communities
§ 684.500
What services may Indian and Native American grantees provide to or for employers under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) INA program grantees may provide a variety of services to employers in their areas. These services may include:
(1) Workforce planning which involves the recruitment of current or potential program participants, including job restructuring services;
(2) Recruitment and assessment of potential employees, with priority given to potential employees who are or who might become eligible for program services;
(3) Pre-employment training;
(4) Customized training;
(5) OJT;
(6) Post-employment services, including training and support services to encourage job retention and upgrading;
(7) Work experience for public or private sector work sites; and
(8) Other innovative forms of worksite training.
(b) In addition to the services listed in paragraph (a) of this section, other grantee-determined services (as described in the grantee's 4-year plan), which are intended to assist eligible participants to obtain or retain employment also may be provided to or for employers.
§ 684.510
What services may Indian and Native American grantees provide to the community at large under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) INA program grantees may provide services to the INA communities in their service areas by engaging in program development and service delivery activities which:
(1) Strengthen the capacity of Indian-controlled institutions to provide education and work-based learning services to INA youth and adults, whether directly or through other INA institutions such as tribal colleges;
(2) Increase the community's capacity to deliver supportive services, such as child care, transportation, housing, health, and similar services needed by clients to obtain and retain employment;
(3) Use program participants engaged in education, training, work experience, or similar activities to further the economic and social development of INA communities in accordance with the goals and values of those communities; and
(4) Engage in other community-building activities described in the INA program grantee's 4-year plan.
(b) INA program grantees should develop their 4-year plan in conjunction with, and in support of, strategic tribal planning and community development goals.
§ 684.520
Must Indian and Native American program grantees give preference to Indian and Native American entities in the selection of contractors or service providers?
Yes, INA program grantees must give as much preference as possible to Indian organizations and to Indian-owned economic enterprises, as defined in sec. 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452), when awarding any contract or subgrant.
§ 684.530
What rules govern the issuance of contracts and/or subgrants?
In general, INA program grantees must follow the rules of Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards when awarding contracts and/or subgrants under WIOA sec. 166. These requirements are codified at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E (and Department modifications at 2 CFR part 2900), and covered in WIOA regulations at § 683.200 of this chapter. These rules do not apply to OJT contract awards.

# Subpart F—Accountability for Services and Expenditures
§ 684.600
To whom is the Indian and Native American program grantee accountable for the provision of services and the expenditure of Indian and Native American funds?
(a) The INA program grantee is responsible to the INA community to be served by INA funds.
(b) The INA program grantee also is responsible to the Department of Labor, which is charged by law with ensuring that all WIOA funds are expended:
(1) According to applicable laws and regulations;
(2) For the benefit of the identified INA client group; and
(3) For the purposes approved in the grantee's plan and signed grant document.
§ 684.610
How is this accountability documented and fulfilled?
(a) Each INA program grantee must establish its own internal policies and procedures to ensure accountability to the INA program grantee's governing body, as the representative of the INA community(ies) served by the INA program. At a minimum, these policies and procedures must provide a system for governing body review and oversight of program plans and measures and standards for program performance.
(b) Accountability to the Department is accomplished in part through on-site
program reviews (monitoring), which strengthen the INA program grantee's capability to deliver effective services and protect the integrity of Federal funds.
(c) In addition to audit information, as described at § 684.860 and program reviews, accountability to the Department is documented and fulfilled by the submission of quarterly financial and program reports, and compliance with the terms and conditions of the grant award.
§ 684.620
What performance indicators are in place for the Indian and Native American program?
(a) Pursuant to WIOA secs. 166(e)(5) and 166(h), the performance indicators at WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(i) apply to the INA program which must include:
(1) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(2) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(3) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(4) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (subject to WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(iii)) during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program;
(5) The percentage of program participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains toward such a credential or employment; and
(6) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit.
(b) In addition to the performance indicators at WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(i), the Department, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, must develop a set of performance indicators and standards that are applicable to the INA program.
[81 FR 56428, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13613, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 684.630
What are the requirements for preventing fraud and abuse under the WIOA?
(a) INA program grantees must establish such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure the proper disbursal of, and accounting for, Federal funds. Such procedures must ensure that all financial transactions are conducted and records maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(b) Each INA program grantee must have rules to prevent conflict of interest by its governing body. These conflict of interest rules must include a rule prohibiting any member of any governing body or council associated with the INA program grantee from voting on any matter which would provide a direct financial benefit to that member, or to a member of his or her immediate family, in accordance with § 683.200(c)(5)(iii) of this chapter and 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900.
(c) Officers or agents of the INA program grantee must not solicit or personally accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from any actual or potential contractor, subgrantee, vendor, or participant. This rule also must apply to officers or agents of the grantee's contractors and/or subgrantees. This prohibition does not apply to:
(1) Any rebate, discount, or similar incentive provided by a vendor to its customers as a regular feature of its business; and
(2) Items of nominal monetary value distributed consistent with the cultural practices of the INA community served by the grantee.
(d) No person who selects program participants or authorizes the services provided to them may select or authorize services to any participant who is such a person's spouse, parent, sibling, or child unless:
(1)(i) The participant involved is a low-income individual; or
(ii) The community in which the participant resides has a population of less than 1,000 INAs combined; and
(2) The INA program grantee has adopted and implemented the policy described in the 4-year plan to prevent favoritism on behalf of such relatives.
(e) INA program grantees are subject to the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 8702 relating to kickbacks.
(f) No assistance provided under WIOA may involve political activities.
(g) INA program grantees must comply with the restrictions on lobbying activities pursuant to sec. 195 of WIOA and the restrictions on lobbying codified in the Department regulations at 29 CFR part 93.
(h) The provisions of 18 U.S.C. 665 and 666 prohibiting embezzlement apply to programs under WIOA.
(i) Recipients of financial assistance under WIOA sec. 166 are prohibited from discriminatory practices as outlined at WIOA sec. 188, and the regulations implementing WIA sec. 188, at 29 CFR part 38. However, this does not affect the legal requirement that all INA participants be INAs. Also, INA program grantees are not obligated to serve populations outside the geographic boundaries for which they receive funds. However, INA program grantees are not precluded from serving eligible individuals outside their geographic boundaries if the INA program grantee chooses to do so.
§ 684.640
What grievance systems must an Indian and Native American program grantee provide?
INA program grantees must establish grievance procedures consistent with the requirements of WIOA sec. 181(c) and § 683.600 of this chapter.
§ 684.650
Can Indian and Native American grantees exclude segments of the eligible population?
(a) No, INA program grantees cannot exclude segments of the eligible population except as otherwise provided in this part. INA program grantees must document in their 4-year plan that a system is in place to afford all members of the eligible population within the service area for which the grantee was designated an equitable opportunity to receive WIOA services and activities.
(b) Nothing in this section restricts the ability of INA program grantees to target subgroups of the eligible population (for example, the disabled, substance abusers, TANF recipients, or similar categories), as outlined in an approved 4-year plan. However, it is unlawful to target services to subgroups on grounds prohibited by WIOA sec. 188 and 29 CFR part 38, including tribal affiliation (which is considered national origin). Outreach efforts, on the other hand, may be targeted to any subgroups.

# Subpart G—Section 166 Planning/Funding Process
§ 684.700
What is the process for submitting a 4-year plan?
Every 4 years, INA program grantees must submit a 4-year strategy for meeting the needs of INAs in accordance with WIOA sec. 166(e). This plan will be part of, and incorporated with, the 4-year competitive process described in WIOA sec. 166(c) and § 684.220. Accordingly, specific requirements for the submission of a 4-year plan will be provided in a FOA and will include the information described at § 684.710.
§ 684.710
What information must be included in the 4-year plans as part of the competitive application?
(a) The 4-year plan, which will be submitted as part of the competitive process, must include the information required at WIOA secs. 166(e)(2)-(5) which are:
(1) The population to be served;
(2) The education and employment needs of the population to be served and the manner in which the activities to be provided will strengthen the ability of the individuals served to obtain or retain unsubsidized employment leading to self-sufficiency;
(3) A description of the activities to be provided and the manner in which such activities are to be integrated with other appropriate activities; and
(4) A description of the performance indicators and expected levels of performance.
(b) The 4-year plan also must include any additional information requested in the FOA.
(c) INA program grantees receiving supplemental youth funds will be required to provide additional information (at a minimum the number of youth it plans to serve and the projected performance outcomes) in the 4-year plan that describes a strategy for serving low-income, INA youth. Additional information required for supplemental youth funding will be identified in the FOA.
§ 684.720
When must the 4-year plan be submitted?
The 4-year plans will be submitted as part of the competitive FOA process described at § 684.220. Accordingly, the due date for the submission of the 4-year plan will be specified in the FOA.
§ 684.730
How will the Department review and approve such plans?
(a) It is the Department's intent to approve a grantee's 4-year strategic plan before the date on which funds for the program become available unless:
(1) The planning documents do not contain the information specified in the regulations in this part and/or the FOA; or
(2) The services which the INA program grantee proposes are not permitted under WIOA or applicable regulations.
(b) After competitive grant selections have been made, the DINAP office will assist INA program grantees in resolving any outstanding issues with the 4-year plan. However, the Department may delay funding to grantees until all issues have been resolved. If the issues with the application of an incumbent grantee cannot be solved, the Department will reallocate funds from the grantee to other grantees that have an approved 4-year plan. The Grant Officer may delay executing a grant agreement and obligating funds to an entity selected through the competitive process until all the required documents—including the 4-year plan—are in place and satisfactory.
(c) The Department may approve a portion of the plan and disapprove other portions.
(d) The grantee also has the right to appeal a nonselection decision or a decision by the Department to deny or reallocate funds based on unresolved issues with the applicant's application or 4-year plan. Such an appeal would go to the Office of the Administrative Law Judges under procedures at § 683.800 or § 683.840 of this chapter in the case of a nonelection.
§ 684.740
Under what circumstances can the Department or the Indian and Native American grantee modify the terms of the grantee's plan(s)?
(a) The Department may unilaterally modify the INA program grantee's plan to add funds or, if required by Congressional action, to reduce the amount of funds available for expenditure.
(b) The INA program grantee may request approval to modify its plan to add, expand, delete, or diminish any service allowable under the regulations in this part. The INA program grantee may modify its plan without our approval, unless the modification reduces the total number of participants to be served annually under the grantee's program by a number which exceeds 25 percent of the participants previously proposed to be served, or by 25 participants, whichever is larger.

# Subpart H—Administrative Requirements
§ 684.800
What systems must an Indian and Native American program grantee have in place to administer an Indian and Native American program?
(a) Each INA program grantee must have a written system describing the procedures the grantee uses for:
(1) The hiring and management of personnel paid with program funds;
(2) The acquisition and management of property purchased with program funds;
(3) Financial management practices;
(4) A participant grievance system which meets the requirements in sec. 181(c) of WIOA and § 683.600 of this chapter; and
(5) A participant records system.
(b) Participant records systems must include:
(1) A written or computerized record containing all the information used to determine the person's eligibility to receive program services;
(2) The participant's signature certifying that all the eligibility information he or she provided is true to the best of his/her knowledge; and
(3) The information necessary to comply with all program reporting requirements.
§ 684.810
What types of costs are allowable expenditures under the Indian and Native American program?
Rules relating to allowable costs under WIOA are covered in §§ 683.200 through 683.215 of this chapter.
§ 684.820
What rules apply to administrative costs under the Indian and Native American program?
The definition and treatment of administrative costs are covered in §§ 683.205(b) and 683.215 of this chapter.
§ 684.830
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act administrative cost limit for States and local areas apply to WIOA grants?
No, under § 683.205(b) of this chapter, limits on administrative costs for sec. 166 grants will be negotiated with the grantee and identified in the grant award document.
§ 684.840
How must Indian and Native American program grantees classify costs?
Cost classification is covered in the WIOA regulations at §§ 683.200 through 683.215 of this chapter. For purposes of the INA program, program costs also include costs associated with other activities such as TERO, and supportive services, as defined in WIOA sec. 3(59).
§ 684.850
What cost principles apply to Indian and Native American funds?
The cost principles at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and the Department's modifications to 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, at 2 CFR part 2900, apply to INA program grantees.
§ 684.860
What audit requirements apply to Indian and Native American grants?
(a) WIOA sec. 166 grantees must follow the audit requirements at 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and the Department's modifications to 2 CFR part 200 at 2 CFR part 2900.
(b) Grants made and contracts and cooperative agreements entered into under sec. 166 of WIOA are subject to the requirements of chapter 75 of subtitle V of title 31, United States Code, and charging of costs under this section are subject to appropriate circulars issued by the Office of Management and Budget and to 2 CFR part 200 and the Department's modifications to 2 CFR part 200 at 2 CFR part 2900.
§ 684.870
What is “program income” and how is it regulated in the Indian and Native American program?
(a) Program income is regulated by WIOA sec. 194(7)(A), §§ 683.200(c)(6) through (8) and 683.300(c)(5) of this chapter, and the applicable rules in 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900.
(b) For grants made under this part, program income does not include income generated by the work of a work experience participant in an enterprise, including an enterprise owned by an INA entity, whether in the public or private sector.
(c) Program income does not include income generated by the work of an OJT participant in an establishment under paragraph (b) of this section.

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous Program Provisions
§ 684.900
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act provide regulatory and/or statutory waiver authority?
Yes, WIOA sec. 166(i)(3) permits waivers of any statutory or regulatory requirement of title I of WIOA that are inconsistent with the specific needs of the INA program grantee (except for
the areas cited in § 684.920). Such waivers may include those necessary to facilitate WIOA support of long-term community development goals.
§ 684.910
What information is required in a waiver request?
(a) To request a waiver, an INA program grantee must submit a waiver request indicating how the waiver will improve the grantee's WIOA program activities. The waiver process will be generally consistent with, but not identical to, the waiver requirements under sec. 189(i)(3)(B) of WIOA. INA program grantees may submit a waiver request as part of the 4-year strategic plan.
(b) A waiver may be requested at the beginning of a 4-year grant award cycle or anytime during a 4-year award cycle. However, all waivers expire at the end of the 4-year award cycle. INA program grantees seeking to continue an existing waiver in a new 4-year grant cycle must submit a new waiver request in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 684.920
What provisions of law or regulations may not be waived?
Requirements relating to:
(a) Wage and labor standards;
(b) Worker rights;
(c) Participation and protection of workers and participants;
(d) Grievance procedures;
(e) Judicial review; and
(f) Non-discrimination may not be waived.
§ 684.930
May Indian and Native American program grantees combine or consolidate their employment and training funds?
Yes. INA program grantees may consolidate their employment and training funds under WIOA with assistance received from related programs in accordance with the provisions of the Public Law 102-477, the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992, as amended by Public Law 106-568, the Omnibus Indian Advancement Act of 2000 (25 U.S.C. 3401
et seq.
). WIOA funds consolidated under Public Law 102-477 are administered by Department of the Interior (DOI). Accordingly, the administrative oversight for funds transferred to DOI, including the reporting of financial expenditures and program outcomes are the responsibility of DOI. However, the Department must review the initial 477 plan and ensure that all Departmental programmatic and financial obligations have been met before WIOA funds are approved to be transferred to DOI and consolidated with other related programs. The initial plan must meet the statutory requirements of WIOA. After approval of the initial plan, all subsequent plans that are renewed or updated from the initial plan may be approved by DOI without further review by the Department.
§ 684.940
What is the role of the Native American Employment and Training Council?
The Native American Employment and Training Council is a body composed of representatives of the grantee community which advises the Secretary on the operation and administration of the INA employment and training program. WIOA sec. 166(i)(4) continues the Council essentially as it is currently constituted. The Department continues to support the Council.
§ 684.950
Does the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act provide any additional assistance to unique populations in Alaska and Hawaii?
Yes. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized to award grants, on a competitive basis, to entities with demonstrated experience and expertise in developing and implementing programs for the unique populations who reside in Alaska or Hawaii, including public and private nonprofit organizations, tribal organizations, American Indian tribal colleges or universities, institutions of higher education, or consortia of such organizations or institutions, to improve job training and workforce investment activities for such unique populations.
Pt. 685

# PART 685—NATIONAL FARMWORKER JOBS PROGRAM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
685.100
What is the purpose of the National Farmworker Jobs Program and the other services and activities established under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
685.110
What definitions apply to this program?
685.120
How does the Department administer the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
685.130
How does the Department assist grantees to serve eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
685.140
What Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) regulations apply to the programs authorized under WIOA?

# Subpart B—The Service Delivery System for the National Farmworker Jobs Program
685.200
Who is eligible to receive a National Farmworker Jobs Program grant?
685.210
How does an eligible entity become a grantee?
685.220
What is the role of the grantee in the one-stop delivery system?
685.230
Can a grantee's designation be terminated?
685.240
How does the Department use funds appropriated under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act for the National Farmworker Jobs Program?

# Subpart C—The National Farmworker Jobs Program Services to Eligible Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers
685.300
What are the general responsibilities of grantees?
685.310
What are the basic components of a National Farmworker Jobs Program service delivery strategy?
685.320
Who is eligible to receive services under the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
685.330
How are services delivered to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
685.340
What career services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
685.350
What training services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
685.360
What housing services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
685.370
What services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers youth participants aged 14-24?
685.380
What related assistance services may be provided to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
685.390
When may eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers receive related assistance?

# Subpart D—Performance Accountability, Planning, and Waiver Provisions
685.400
What are the indicators of performance that apply to the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
685.410
What planning documents must a grantee submit?
685.420
What information is required in the grantee program plan?
685.430
Under what circumstances are the terms of the grantee's program plan modified by the grantee or the Department?
685.440
How are costs classified under the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
685.450
What is the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act administrative cost limit for National Farmworker Jobs Program grants?
685.460
Are there regulatory and/or statutory waiver provisions that apply to the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
685.470
How can grantees request a waiver?

# Subpart E—Supplemental Youth Workforce Investment Activity Funding Under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
685.500
What is supplemental youth workforce investment activity funding?
685.510
What requirements apply to grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
685.520
What is the application process for obtaining a grant funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
685.530
What planning documents are required for grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
685.540
How are funds allocated to grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
685.550
Who is eligible to receive services through grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

# Authority:
Secs. 167, 189, 503, Public Law 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56438, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 685.100
What is the purpose of the National Farmworker Jobs Program and the other services and activities established under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The purpose of the NFJP and the other services and activities established under WIOA sec. 167 is to strengthen the ability of eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers (MSFWs) and their dependents to obtain or retain unsubsidized employment, stabilize their unsubsidized employment and achieve economic self-sufficiency, including upgraded employment in agriculture. This part provides the regulatory requirements applicable to the expenditure of WIOA secs. 167 and 127(a)(1) funds for such programs, services, and activities.
§ 685.110
What definitions apply to this program?
In addition to the definitions found in § 675.300 of this chapter, the following definitions apply to programs under this part:
Allowances
means direct payments made to participants during their enrollment to enable them to participate in the career services described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii) or training services as appropriate.
Dependent
means an individual who:
(1) Was claimed as a dependent on the eligible MSFW's Federal income tax return for the previous year; or
(2) Is the spouse of the eligible MSFW; or
(3) If not claimed as a dependent for Federal income tax purposes, is able to establish:
(i) A relationship as the eligible MSFW's;
(A) Child, grandchild, great grandchild, including legally adopted children;
(B) Stepchild;
(C) Brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
(D) Parent, grandparent, or other direct ancestor but not foster parent;
(E) Foster child;
(F) Stepfather or stepmother;
(G) Uncle or aunt;
(H) Niece or nephew;
(I) Father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law; or
(J) Daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law; and
(ii) The receipt of over half of his/her total support from the eligible MSFW's family during the eligibility determination period.
Eligibility determination period
means any consecutive 12-month period within the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of application for the MSFW program by the applicant MSFW.
Eligible migrant farmworker
means an eligible seasonal farmworker as defined in WIOA sec. 167(i)(3) whose agricultural labor requires travel to a job site such that the farmworker is unable to return to a permanent place of residence within the same day; and dependents of the migrant farmworker, as described in WIOA sec. 167(i)(2).
Eligible migrant and seasonal farmworker
means an eligible migrant farmworker or an eligible seasonal farmworker, also referred to in this regulation as an “
eligible MSFW,
” as defined in WIOA sec. 167(i).
Eligible MSFW youth
means an eligible MSFW aged 14-24 who is individually eligible or is a dependent of an eligible MSFW. The term
eligible MSFW youth
is a subset of the term
eligible MSFW
defined in this section.
Eligible seasonal farmworker
means a low-income individual who for 12 consecutive months out of the 24 months prior to application for the program involved, has been primarily employed in agricultural or fish farming labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment; and faces multiple barriers to economic self-sufficiency; and dependents of the seasonal farmworker as described in WIOA sec. 167(i)(3).
Emergency assistance
is a form of “related assistance” and means assistance provided by grantees that addresses immediate needs of eligible MSFWs and their dependents. An applicant's self-certification is accepted as sufficient documentation of eligibility for emergency assistance.
Family,
for the purpose of reporting housing assistance grantee indicators of performance as described in in
§ 685.400, means the eligible MSFW(s) and all the individuals identified under the definition of
dependent
in this section who are living together in one physical residence.
Farmwork
means work while employed in the occupations described in § 651.10 of this chapter.
Grantee
means an entity to which the Department directly awards a WIOA grant to carry out programs to serve eligible MSFWs in a service area, with funds made available under WIOA sec. 167 or 127(a)(1).
Housing assistance
means housing services which contribute to safe and sanitary temporary and permanent housing constructed, supplied, or maintained with NFJP funding.
Lower living standard income level
means the income level as defined in WIOA sec. 3(36)(B).
Low-income individual
means an individual as defined in WIOA sec. 3(36)(A).
MOU
means Memorandum of Understanding.
National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP)
is the Department of Labor-administered workforce investment program for eligible MSFWs established by WIOA sec. 167 as a required partner of the one-stop delivery system and includes both career services and training grants, and housing grants.
Recognized postsecondary credential
means a credential as defined in WIOA sec. 3(52).
Related assistance
means short-term forms of direct assistance designed to assist eligible MSFWs retain or stabilize their agricultural employment. Examples of related assistance may include, but are not limited to, services such as transportation assistance or providing work clothing.
Self-certification
means an eligible MSFW's signed attestation that the information he/she submits to demonstrate eligibility for the NFJP is true and accurate.
Service area
means the geographical jurisdiction, which may be comprised of one or more designated State or sub-State areas, in which a WIOA sec. 167 grantee is designated to operate.
Supportive services
means the services defined in WIOA sec. 3(59).
Technical assistance
means the guidance provided to grantees and grantee staff by the Department to improve the quality of the program and the delivery of program services to eligible MSFWs.
§ 685.120
How does the Department administer the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
The Department's Employment and Training Administration (ETA) administers NFJP activities required under WIOA sec. 167 for eligible MSFWs. As described in § 685.210, the Department designates grantees using procedures consistent with standard Federal government competitive procedures.
§ 685.130
How does the Department assist grantees to serve eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
The Department provides guidance, administrative support, technical assistance, and training to grantees for the purposes of program implementation, and program performance management to enhance services and promote continuous improvement in the employment outcomes of eligible MSFWs.
§ 685.140
What Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) regulations apply to the programs authorized under WIOA?
The regulations that apply to programs authorized under WIOA sec. 167 include but are not limited to:
(a) The regulations found in this part;
(b) The general administrative requirements found in part 683 of this chapter, including the regulations concerning Complaints, Investigations and Hearings found at part 683, subparts D through H, of this chapter, which cover programs under WIOA sec. 167;
(c) Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200 and the Department's exceptions at 2 CFR part 2900 pursuant to the effective dates in 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900;
(d) The regulations on partnership responsibilities contained in parts 679 (Statewide and Local Governance) and 678 (the One-Stop System) of this chapter; and
(e) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 38, which implement the nondiscrimination provisions of WIOA sec. 188.

# Subpart B—The Service Delivery System for the National Farmworker Jobs Program
§ 685.200
Who is eligible to receive a National Farmworker Jobs Program grant?
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity must have:
(a) An understanding of the problems of eligible MSFWs;
(b) A familiarity with the agricultural industries and the labor market needs of the proposed service area; and
(c) The ability to demonstrate a capacity to administer and deliver effectively a diversified program of workforce investment activities, including youth workforce investment activities, and related assistance for eligible MSFWs.
§ 685.210
How does an eligible entity become a grantee?
To become a grantee and receive a grant under this subpart, an applicant must respond to a Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA). Under the FOA, grantees will be selected using standard Federal government competitive procedures. The entity's proposal must include a program plan, which is a 4-year strategy for meeting the needs of eligible MSFWs in the proposed service area, and a description of the entities experience working with the broader workforce delivery system. Unless specified otherwise in the FOA, grantees may serve eligible MSFWs, including eligible MSFW youth, under the grant. An applicant whose application for funding as a grantee under this section is denied in whole or in part may request an administrative review under § 683.800 of this chapter.
§ 685.220
What is the role of the grantee in the one-stop delivery system?
In those local areas where the grantee operates its NFJP as described in its grant agreement, the grantee is a required one-stop partner, and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in part 678 of this chapter. Consistent with those provisions, the grantee and Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) must develop and enter into an MOU which meets the requirements of § 678.500 of this chapter, and which sets forth their respective responsibilities for providing access to the full range of NFJP services through the one-stop delivery system to eligible MSFWs.
§ 685.230
Can a grantee's designation be terminated?
Yes, a grantee's designation may be terminated by the Department for cause:
(a) In emergency circumstances when such action is necessary to protect the integrity of Federal funds or to ensure the proper operation of the program. Any grantee so terminated will be provided with written notice and an opportunity for a hearing within 30 days after the termination; or
(b) By the Department's Grant Officer, if the recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the award. In such a case, the Grant Officer will follow the administrative regulations at § 683.440 of this chapter.
§ 685.240
How does the Department use funds appropriated under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act for the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
At least 99 percent of the funds appropriated each year for WIOA sec. 167 activities must be allocated to service areas, based on the distribution of the eligible MSFW population determined under a formula established by the Secretary. The Department will award grants pursuant to § 685.210 for the provision of services to eligible MSFWs within each service area. The Department will use a percentage of the funds allocated for State service areas for housing grants, specified in a FOA issued by the Department. The Department will use up to one percent of the appropriated funds for discretionary purposes, such as technical assistance to eligible entities and other activities prescribed by the Secretary.

# Subpart C—The National Farmworker Jobs Program Services to Eligible Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers
§ 685.300
What are the general responsibilities of grantees?
(a) The Department awards career services and training grants and housing grants through the FOA process described in § 685.210. Career services and training grantees are responsible for providing appropriate career services, training, and related assistance to eligible MSFWs. Housing grantees are responsible for providing housing assistance to eligible MSFWs.
(b) Grantees will provide these services in accordance with the service delivery strategy meeting the requirements of § 685.310 and as described in their approved program plan described in § 685.420. These services must reflect the needs of the MSFW population in the service area and include the services that are necessary to achieve each participant's employment goals or housing needs.
(c) Grantees are responsible for coordinating services, particularly outreach to MSFWs, with the State Workforce Agency as defined in § 651.10 of this chapter and the State's Monitor Advocate.
(d) Grantees are responsible for fulfilling the responsibilities of one-stop partners described in § 678.420 of this chapter.
§ 685.310
What are the basic components of a National Farmworker Jobs Program service delivery strategy?
The NFJP service delivery strategy must include:
(a) A customer-focused case management approach;
(b) The provision of workforce investment activities to eligible MSFWs which include career services and training, as described in WIOA secs. 167(d) and 134, and part 680 of this chapter;
(c) The provision of youth workforce investment activities described in WIOA sec. 129 and part 681 of this chapter may be provided to eligible MSFW youth;
(d) The arrangements under the MOUs with the applicable Local WDBs for the delivery of the services available through the one-stop delivery system to MSFWs; and
(e) Related assistance services.
§ 685.320
Who is eligible to receive services under the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
Eligible migrant farmworkers (including eligible MSFW youth) and eligible seasonal farmworkers (including eligible MSFW youth) as defined in § 685.110 are eligible for services funded by the NFJP.
§ 685.330
How are services delivered to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
To ensure that all services are focused on the customer's needs, services are provided through a case-management approach emphasizing customer choice and may include: Appropriate career services and training; related assistance, which includes emergency assistance; and supportive services, which includes allowance payments. The basic services and delivery of case-management activities are further described in §§ 685.340 through 685.390.
§ 685.340
What career services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
(a) Grantees may provide the career services described in WIOA secs. 167(d) and 134(c)(2), and part 680 of this chapter to eligible MSFWs.
(b) Grantees may provide other services identified in the approved program plan.
(c) The delivery of career services to eligible MSFWs by the grantee and through the one-stop delivery system must be discussed in the required MOU between the Local WDB and the grantee.
§ 685.350
What training services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
(a) Grantees may provide the training activities described in WIOA secs. 167(d) and 134(c)(3)(D), and part 680 of this chapter to eligible MSFWs. These activities include, but are not limited to, occupational-skills training and on-the-job training (OJT). Eligible MSFWs
are not required to receive career services prior to receiving training services.
(1) When providing OJT services NFJP grantees may reimburse employers for the extraordinary costs of training by up to 50 percent of the wage rate of the participant for OJT.
(2) Grantees also may increase the OJT reimbursement rate up to 75 percent of the wage rate of a participant under certain conditions, provided that such reimbursement is being provided consistent with the reimbursement rates used under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(H)(i) for the local area(s) in which the grantee operates its program.
(b) Training services must be directly linked to an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the service area, or in another area to which an eligible MSFW receiving such services is willing to relocate.
(c) Training activities must encourage the attainment of recognized postsecondary credentials as defined in § 685.110 when appropriate for an eligible MSFW.
§ 685.360
What housing services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
(a) Housing grantees must provide housing services to eligible MSFWs.
(b) Career services and training grantees may provide housing services to eligible MSFWs as described in their program plan.
(c) Housing services may include the following:
(1) Permanent housing that is owner-occupied, or occupied on a permanent, year-round basis (notwithstanding ownership) as the eligible MSFW's primary residence to which he/she returns at the end of the work or training day.
(i) Types of permanent housing may include rental units, single family homes, duplexes, and other multi-family structures, dormitories, group homes, and other housing types that provide short-term, seasonal, or year-round housing opportunities in permanent structures. Modular structures, manufactured housing, or mobile units placed on permanent foundations and supplied with appropriate utilities, and other infrastructure also are considered permanent housing.
(ii) Permanent housing services include but are not limited to: Investments in development services, project management, and resource development to secure acquisition, construction/renovation and operating funds, property management services, and program management. New construction, purchase of existing structures, and rehabilitation of existing structures, as well as the infrastructure, utilities, and other improvements necessary to complete or maintain those structures also may be considered part of managing permanent housing.
(2) Temporary housing that is not owner-occupied and is used by MSFWs whose employment requires occasional travel outside their normal commuting area.
(i) Types of temporary housing may include: Housing units intended for temporary occupancy located in permanent structures, such as rental units in an apartment complex or in mobile structures that provide short-term, seasonal housing opportunities; temporary structures that may be moved from site to site, dismantled and re-erected when needed for farmworker occupancy, closed during the off-season, or handled through other similar arrangements; off-farm housing operated independently of employer interest in, or control of, the housing; or on-farm housing located on property owned by an agricultural employer and operated by an entity such as an agricultural employer or a nonprofit organization; and other housing types that provide short-term, seasonal, or temporary housing opportunities in temporary structures.
(ii) Temporary housing services include but are not limited to: Managing temporary housing which may involve property management of temporary housing facilities, case management, and referral services, and emergency housing payments, including vouchers and cash payments for rent/lease and utilities.
(d) Permanent housing developed with NFJP funds must be promoted and made widely available to eligible MSFWs, but occupancy is not restricted to eligible MSFWs. Temporary
housing services must only be provided to eligible MSFWs.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, NFJP funds used for housing assistance must ensure the provision of safe and sanitary temporary and permanent housing that meets the Federal housing standards at part 654 of this chapter (ETA housing for farmworkers) or 29 CFR 1910.10 (OSHA housing standards).
(f) When NFJP grantees provide temporary housing assistance that allows the participant to select the housing, including vouchers and cash payments for rent, lease, and utilities, NFJP grantees are not required to ensure that such housing meets the Federal housing standards at part 654 of this chapter or 29 CFR 1910.10.
§ 685.370
What services may grantees provide to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers youth participants aged 14-24?
(a) Based on an evaluation and assessment of the needs of eligible MSFW youth, grantees may provide activities and services that include but are not limited to:
(1) Career services and training as described in §§ 685.340 and 685.350;
(2) Youth workforce investment activities specified in WIOA sec. 129;
(3) Life skills activities which may include self- and interpersonal skills development;
(4) Community service projects; and
(5) Other activities and services that conform to the use of funds for youth activities described in part 681 of this chapter.
(b) Grantees may provide these services to any eligible MSFW youth, regardless of the participant's eligibility for WIOA title I youth activities as described in WIOA sec. 129(a).
§ 685.380
What related assistance services may be provided to eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers?
Related assistance may include short-term direct services and activities. Examples include emergency assistance, as defined in § 685.110, and those activities identified in WIOA sec. 167(d), such as: English language and literacy instruction; pesticide and worker safety training; housing (including permanent housing), as described in § 685.360 and as provided in the approved program plan; and school dropout prevention and recovery activities. Related assistance may be provided to eligible MSFWs not enrolled in career services, youth services, or training services.
§ 685.390
When may eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers receive related assistance?
Eligible MSFWs may receive related assistance services when the grantee identifies and documents the need for the related assistance, which may include a statement by the eligible MSFW.

# Subpart D—Performance Accountability, Planning, and Waiver Provisions
§ 685.400
What are the indicators of performance that apply to the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
(a) For grantees providing career services and training, the Department will use the indicators of performance common to the adult and youth programs, described in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A).
(b) For grantees providing career services and training, the Department will reach agreement with individual grantees on the levels of performance for each of the primary indicators of performance, taking into account economic conditions, characteristics of the individuals served, and other appropriate factors, and using, to the extent practicable, the statistical adjustment model under WIOA sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(viii). Once agreement on the levels of performance for each of the primary indicators of performance is reached with individual grantees, the Department will incorporate the adjusted levels of performance in the grant plan. For the purposes of performance reporting, eligible MSFWs who receive any career services, youth services, training, or certain related assistance are considered participants as defined in § 677.150 of this chapter and must be included in performance calculations for the indicators of performance. Eligible MSFWs who receive only those services identified in § 677.150(a)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this chapter
are not included in performance calculations for the indicators of performance described in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A).
(c) For grantees providing housing services only, grantees will use the total number of eligible MSFWs served and the total number of eligible MSFW families served as indicators of performance. Additionally, grantees providing permanent housing development activities will use the total number of individuals served and the total number of families served as indicators of performance.
(d) The Department may develop additional performance indicators with appropriate levels of performance for evaluating programs that serve eligible MSFWs and which reflect the State service area economy, local demographics of eligible MSFWs, and other appropriate factors. If additional performance indicators are developed, the levels of performance for these additional indicators must be negotiated with the grantee and included in the approved program plan.
(e) Grantees may develop additional performance indicators and include them in the program plan or in periodic performance reports.
§ 685.410
What planning documents must a grantee submit?
Each grantee receiving WIOA sec. 167 program funds must submit to the Department a comprehensive program plan and a projection of participant services and expenditures in accordance with instructions issued by the Secretary.
§ 685.420
What information is required in the grantee program plan?
A grantee's 4-year program plan must describe:
(a) The service area that the applicant proposes to serve;
(b) The population to be served and the education and employment needs of the MSFW population to be served;
(c) The manner in which proposed services to eligible MSFWs will strengthen their ability to obtain or retain unsubsidized employment or stabilize their unsubsidized employment, including upgraded employment in agriculture;
(d) The related assistance and supportive services to be provided and the manner in which such assistance and services are to be integrated and coordinated with other appropriate services;
(e) The performance accountability measures that will be used to assess the performance of the entity in carrying out the NFJP program activities, including the expected levels of performance for the primary indicators of performance described in § 685.400;
(f) The availability and accessibility of local resources, such as supportive services, services provided through one-stop delivery systems, and education and training activities, and how the resources can be made available to the population to be served;
(g) The plan for providing services including strategies and systems for outreach, career planning, assessment, and delivery through one-stop delivery systems;
(h) The methods the grantee will use to target its services on specific segments of the eligible population, as appropriate; and
(i) Such other information as required by the Secretary in instructions issued under § 685.410.
§ 685.430
Under what circumstances are the terms of the grantee's program plan modified by the grantee or the Department?
(a) Plans must be modified to reflect the funding level for each year of the grant. The Department will provide instructions annually on when to submit modifications for each year of funding, which will generally be no later than June 1 prior to the start of the subsequent year of the grant cycle.
(b) The grantee must submit a request to the Department for any proposed modifications to its plan to add, delete, expand, or reduce any part of the program plan or allowable activities. The Department will consider the cost principles, uniform administrative requirements, and terms and conditions of award when reviewing modifications to program plans.
(c) If the grantee is approved for a regulatory waiver under §§ 685.460 and 685.470, the grantee must submit a
modification of its grant plan to reflect the effect of the waiver.
§ 685.440
How are costs classified under the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
(a) Costs are classified as follows:
(1) Administrative costs, as defined in § 683.215 of this chapter; and
(2) Program costs, which are all other costs not defined as administrative.
(b) Program costs must be classified and reported in the following categories:
(1) Related assistance (including emergency assistance);
(2) Supportive services; and
(3) All other program services.
§ 685.450
What is the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act administrative cost limit for National Farmworker Jobs Program grants?
Under § 683.205(b) of this chapter, limits on administrative costs for programs operated under subtitle D of WIOA title I will be identified in the grant or contract award document. Administrative costs will not exceed 15 percent of total grantee funding.
§ 685.460
Are there regulatory and/or statutory waiver provisions that apply to the National Farmworker Jobs Program?
(a) The statutory waiver provision at WIOA sec. 189(i) and discussed in § 679.600 of this chapter does not apply to any NFJP grant under WIOA sec. 167.
(b) Grantees may request waiver of any regulatory provisions only when such regulatory provisions are:
(1) Not required by WIOA;
(2) Not related to wage and labor standards, non-displacement protection, worker rights, participation and protection of workers and participants, and eligibility of participants, grievance procedures, judicial review, nondiscrimination, allocation of funds, procedures for review and approval of plans; and
(3) Not related to the basic purposes of WIOA, described in § 675.100 of this chapter.
§ 685.470
How can grantees request a waiver?
To request a waiver, a grantee must submit to the Department a waiver plan that:
(a) Describes the goals of the waiver, the expected programmatic outcomes, and how the waiver will improve the provision of program activities;
(b) Is consistent with any guidelines the Department establishes;
(c) Describes the data that will be collected to track the impact of the waiver; and
(d) Includes a modified program plan reflecting the effect of the requested waiver.

# Subpart E—Supplemental Youth Workforce Investment Activity Funding Under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
§ 685.500
What is supplemental youth workforce investment activity funding?
Pursuant to WIOA sec. 127(a)(1), if Congress appropriates more than $925 million for WIOA youth workforce investment activities in a fiscal year, 4 percent of the excess amount must be used by the Department to provide workforce investment activities for eligible MSFW youth under WIOA sec. 167.
§ 685.510
What requirements apply to grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The requirements in subparts A through D of this part apply to grants funded by WIOA sec. 127(a)(1), except that grants described in this subpart must be used only for workforce investment activities for eligible MSFW youth, as described in § 685.370 and WIOA sec. 167(d) (including related assistance and supportive services).
§ 685.520
What is the application process for obtaining a grant funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The Department will issue a separate FOA for grants funded by WIOA sec. 127(a)(1). The selection will be made in
accordance with the procedures described in § 685.210, except that the Department reserves the right to provide priority to applicants that are WIOA sec. 167 grantees.
§ 685.530
What planning documents are required for grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The required planning documents will be described in the FOA.
§ 685.540
How are funds allocated to grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The allocation of funds will be based on the comparative merits of the applications, in accordance with criteria set forth in the FOA.
§ 685.550
Who is eligible to receive services through grants funded by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
Eligible MSFW youth as defined in § 685.110 are eligible to receive services through grants funded by WIOA sec. 127(a)(1).
Pt. 686

# PART 686—THE JOB CORPS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—Scope and Purpose
Sec.
686.100
What is the scope of this part?
686.110
What is the Job Corps program?
686.120
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Site Selection and Protection and Maintenance of Facilities
686.200
How are Job Corps center locations and sizes determined?
686.210
How are center facility improvements and new construction handled?
686.220
Who is responsible for the protection and maintenance of center facilities?

# Subpart C—Funding and Selection of Center Operators and Service Providers
686.300
What entities are eligible to receive funds to operate centers and provide training and operational support services?
686.310
How are entities selected to receive funding to operate centers?
686.320
What if a current center operator is deemed to be an operator of a high-performing center?
686.330
What is the length of an agreement entered into by the Secretary for operation of a Job Corps center and what are the conditions for renewal of such an agreement?
686.340
How are entities selected to receive funding to provide outreach and admission, career transition and other operations support services?
686.350
What conditions apply to the operation of a Civilian Conservation Center?
686.360
What are the requirements for award of contracts and payments to Federal agencies?

# Subpart D—Recruitment, Eligibility, Screening, Selection and Assignment, and Enrollment
686.400
Who is eligible to participate in the Job Corps program?
686.410
Are there additional factors which are considered in selecting an eligible applicant for enrollment?
686.420
Are there any special requirements for enrollment related to the Military Selective Service Act?
686.430
What entities conduct outreach and admissions activities for the Job Corps program?
686.440
What are the responsibilities of outreach and admissions providers?
686.450
How are applicants who meet eligibility and selection criteria assigned to centers?
686.460
What restrictions are there on the assignment of eligible applicants for nonresidential enrollment in Job Corps?
686.470
May an individual who is determined to be ineligible or an individual who is denied enrollment appeal that decision?
686.480
At what point is an applicant considered to be enrolled in Job Corps?
686.490
How long may a student be enrolled in Job Corps?

# Subpart E—Program Activities and Center Operations
686.500
What services must Job Corps centers provide?
686.505
What types of training must Job Corps centers provide?
686.510
Are entities other than Job Corps center operators permitted to provide academic and career technical training?
686.515
What are advanced career training programs?
686.520
What responsibilities do the center operators have in managing work-based learning?
686.525
Are students permitted to hold jobs other than work-based learning opportunities?
686.530
What residential support services must Job Corps center operators provide?
686.535
Are Job Corps centers required to maintain a student accountability system?
686.540
Are Job Corps centers required to establish behavior management systems?
686.545
What is Job Corps' zero tolerance policy?
686.550
How does Job Corps ensure that students receive due process in disciplinary actions?
686.555
What responsibilities do Job Corps centers have in assisting students with child care needs?
686.560
What are the center's responsibilities in ensuring that students' religious rights are respected?
686.565
Is Job Corps authorized to conduct pilot and demonstration projects?

# Subpart F—Student Support
686.600
Are students provided with government-paid transportation to and from Job Corps centers?
686.610
When are students authorized to take leaves of absence from their Job Corps centers?
686.620
Are Job Corps students eligible to receive cash allowances and performance bonuses?
686.630
Are student allowances subject to Federal payroll taxes?
686.640
Are students provided with clothing?

# Subpart G—Career Transition and Graduate Services
686.700
What are a Job Corps center's responsibilities in preparing students for career transition services?
686.710
What career transition services are provided for Job Corps enrollees?
686.720
Who provides career transition services?
686.730
What are the responsibilities of career transition service providers?
686.740
What services are provided for program graduates?
686.750
Are graduates provided with transition allowances?
686.760
What services are provided to former enrollees?

# Subpart H—Community Connections
686.800
How do Job Corps centers and service providers become involved in their local communities?
686.810
What is the makeup of a workforce council and what are its responsibilities?
686.820
How will Job Corps coordinate with other agencies?

# Subpart I—Administrative and Management Provisions
686.900
Are damages caused by the acts or omissions of students eligible for payment under the Federal Tort Claims Act?
686.905
Are loss and damages that occur to persons or personal property of students at Job Corps centers eligible for reimbursement?
686.910
If a student is injured in the performance of duty as a Job Corps student, what benefits may the student receive?
686.915
When is a Job Corps student considered to be in the performance of duty?
686.920
How are students protected from unsafe or unhealthy situations?
686.925
What are the requirements for criminal law enforcement jurisdiction on center property?
686.930
Are Job Corps operators and service providers authorized to pay State or local taxes on gross receipts?
686.935
What are the financial management responsibilities of Job Corps center operators and other service providers?
686.940
Are center operators and service providers subject to Federal audits?
686.945
What are the procedures for management of student records?
686.950
What procedures apply to disclosure of information about Job Corps students and program activities?
686.955
What are the reporting requirements for center operators and operational support service providers?
686.960
What procedures are available to resolve complaints and disputes?
686.965
How does Job Corps ensure that complaints or disputes are resolved in a timely fashion?
686.970
How does Job Corps ensure that centers or other service providers comply with the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the WIOA regulations?
686.975
How does Job Corps ensure that contract disputes will be resolved?
686.980
How does Job Corps resolve disputes between the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Department of Agriculture regarding the operation of Job Corps centers?
686.985
What Department of Labor equal opportunity and nondiscrimination regulations apply to Job Corps?

# Subpart J—Performance
686.1000
How is the performance of the Job Corps program assessed?
686.1010
What are the primary indicators of performance for Job Corps centers and the Job Corps program?
686.1020
What are the indicators of performance for Job Corps outreach and admissions providers?
686.1030
What are the indicators of performance for Job Corps career transition service providers?
686.1040
What information will be collected for use in the Annual Report?
686.1050
How are the expected levels of performance for Job Corps centers, outreach and admissions providers and career transition service providers established?
686.1060
How are center rankings established?
686.1070
How and when will the Secretary use performance improvement plans?

# Authority:
Secs. 142, 144, 146, 147, 159, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56443, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Scope and Purpose
§ 686.100
What is the scope of this part?
The regulations in this part outline the requirements that apply to the Job Corps program. More detailed policies and procedures are contained in a Policy and Requirements Handbook issued by the Secretary. Throughout this part, “instructions (procedures) issued by the Secretary” and similar references refer to the Policy and Requirements Handbook and other Job Corps directives.
§ 686.110
What is the Job Corps program?
Job Corps is a national program that operates in partnership with States and communities, Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs), Youth Standing Committees where established, one-stop centers and partners, and other youth programs to provide academic, career and technical education, service-learning, and social opportunities primarily in a residential setting, for low-income young people. The objective of Job Corps is to support responsible citizenship and provide young people with the skills they need to lead to successful careers that will result in economic self-sufficiency and opportunities for advancement in in-demand industry sectors or occupations or the Armed Forces, or to enrollment in postsecondary education.
§ 686.120
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Absent Without Official Leave (AWOL)
means an adverse enrollment status to which a student is assigned based on extended, unapproved absence from his/her assigned center or off-center place of duty. Students do not earn Job Corps allowances while in AWOL status.
Applicable Local WDB
means a Local WDB that:
(1) Works with a Job Corps center and provides information on local employment opportunities and the job skills and credentials needed to obtain the opportunities; and
(2) Serves communities in which the graduates of the Job Corps seek employment.
Applicable one-stop center
means a one-stop center that provides career transition services, such as referral, assessment, recruitment, and placement, to support the purposes of the Job Corps.
Capital improvement
means any modification, addition, restoration or other improvement:
(1) Which increases the usefulness, productivity, or serviceable life of an existing site, facility, building, structure, or major item of equipment;
(2) Which is classified for accounting purposes as a “fixed asset;” and
(3) The cost of which increases the recorded value of the existing building, site, facility, structure, or major item of equipment and is subject to depreciation.
Career technical training
means career and technical education and training.
Career transition service provider
means an organization acting under a contract or other agreement with Job Corps to provide career transition services for graduates and, to the extent possible, for former students.
Civilian Conservation Center (CCC)
means a center operated on public land under an agreement between the Department of Labor (the Department) and the Department of Agriculture, which provides, in addition to other training and assistance, programs of
work-based learning to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest.
Contract center
means a Job Corps center operated under a contract with the Department.
Contracting officer
means an official authorized to enter into contracts or agreements on behalf of the Department.
Enrollee
means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, and remains with the program, but has not yet become a graduate. Enrollees also are referred to as “students” in this part.
Enrollment
means the process by which an individual formally becomes a student in the Job Corps program.
Former enrollee
means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, but left the program prior to becoming a graduate.
Graduate
means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program and who, as a result of participation in the program, has received a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent, or has completed the requirements of a career technical training program that prepares individuals for employment leading to economic self-sufficiency or entrance into postsecondary education or training.
Individual with a disability
means an individual with a disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).
Interagency agreement
means a formal agreement between the Department and another Federal agency administering and operating centers. The agreement establishes procedures for the funding, administration, operation, and review of those centers as well as the resolution of any disputes.
Job Corps
means the Job Corps program established within the Department of Labor and described in sec. 143 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA).
Job Corps center
means a facility and an organizational entity, including all of its parts, providing Job Corps training and designated as a Job Corps center, as described in sec. 147 of WIOA.
Job Corps Director
means the chief official of the Job Corps or a person authorized to act for the Job Corps Director.
Low-income individual
means an individual who meets the definition in WIOA sec. 3(36).
National Office
means the national office of Job Corps.
National training contractor
means a labor union, union-affiliated organization, business organization, association, or a combination of such organizations, which has a contract with the national office to provide career technical training, career transition services, or other services.
Operational support services
means activities or services required to support the operation of Job Corps, including:
(1) Outreach and admissions services;
(2) Contracted career technical training and off-center training;
(3) Career transition services;
(4) Continued services for graduates;
(5) Certain health services; and
(6) Miscellaneous logistical and technical support.
Operator
means a Federal, State or local agency, or a contractor selected under this subtitle to operate a Job Corps center under an agreement or contract with the Department.
Outreach and admissions provider
means an organization that performs recruitment services, including outreach activities, and screens and enrolls youth under a contract or other agreement with Job Corps.
Participant,
as used in this part, includes both graduates and enrollees and former enrollees that have completed their career preparation period. It also includes all enrollees and former enrollees who have remained in the program for at least 60 days.
Placement
means student employment, entry into the Armed Forces, or enrollment in other training or education programs following separation from Job Corps.
Regional appeal board
means the board designated by the Regional Director to consider student appeals of disciplinary discharges.
Regional Director
means the chief Job Corps official of a regional office or a person authorized to act for the Regional Director.
Regional office
means a regional office of Job Corps.
Regional Solicitor
means the chief official of a regional office of the Department of Labor Office of the Solicitor, or a person authorized to act for the Regional Solicitor.
Separation
means the action by which an individual ceases to be a student in the Job Corps program, either voluntarily or involuntarily.
Service provider
means an entity selected under this subtitle to provide operational support services described in this subtitle to a Job Corps center.
Student
means an individual enrolled in the Job Corps.
Unauthorized goods
means:
(1) Firearms and ammunition;
(2) Explosives and incendiaries;
(3) Knives;
(4) Homemade weapons;
(5) All other weapons and instruments used primarily to inflict personal injury;
(6) Stolen property;
(7) Drugs, including alcohol, marijuana, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, tranquilizers, and drug paraphernalia except for drugs and/or paraphernalia that are prescribed for medical reasons; and
(8) Any other goods prohibited by the Secretary, center director, or center operator in a student handbook.

# Subpart B—Site Selection and Protection and Maintenance of Facilities
§ 686.200
How are Job Corps center locations and sizes determined?
(a) The Secretary must approve the location and size of all Job Corps centers based on established criteria and procedures.
(b) The Secretary establishes procedures for making decisions concerning the establishment, relocation, expansion, or closing of contract centers.
§ 686.210
How are center facility improvements and new construction handled?
The Secretary establishes procedures for requesting, approving, and initiating capital improvements and new construction on Job Corps centers.
§ 686.220
Who is responsible for the protection and maintenance of center facilities?
(a) The Secretary establishes procedures for the protection and maintenance of contract center facilities owned or leased by the Department of Labor, that are consistent with the current Federal Property Management Regulations.
(b) The U.S. Department of Agriculture, when operating Civilian Conservation Centers (CCC) on public land, is responsible for the protection and maintenance of CCC facilities.
(c) The Secretary issues procedures for conducting periodic facility surveys of centers to determine their condition and to identify needs such as correction of safety and health deficiencies, rehabilitation, and/or new construction.

# Subpart C—Funding and Selection of Center Operators and Service Providers
§ 686.300
What entities are eligible to receive funds to operate centers and provide training and operational support services?
(a)
Center operators.
Entities eligible to receive funds under this subpart to operate centers include:
(1) Federal, State, and local agencies;
(2) Private organizations, including for-profit and non-profit corporations;
(3) Indian tribes and organizations; and
(4) Area career and technical education or residential career and technical schools.
(b)
Service providers.
Entities eligible to receive funds to provide outreach and admissions, career transition services and other operational support services are local or other entities with the necessary capacity to provide activities described in this part to a Job Corps center, including:
(1) Applicable one-stop centers and partners;
(2) Organizations that have a demonstrated record of effectiveness in serving at-risk youth and placing them into employment, including community action agencies; business organizations, including private for-profit and non-profit corporations; and labor organizations; and
(3) Child welfare agencies that are responsible for children and youth eligible for benefits and services under sec. 477 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 677).
§ 686.310
How are entities selected to receive funding to operate centers?
(a) The Secretary selects eligible entities to operate contract centers on a competitive basis in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations. In selecting an entity, the Secretary issues requests for proposals (RFPs) for the operation of all contract centers according to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) and Department of Labor Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 29). The Secretary develops RFPs for center operators in consultation with the Governor, the center workforce council (if established), and the Local WDB for the workforce development area in which the center is located.
(b) The RFP for each contract center describes uniform specifications and standards, as well as specifications and requirements that are unique to the operation of the specific center.
(c) The contracting officer selects and funds Job Corps contract center operators on the basis of an evaluation of the proposals received using criteria established by the Secretary, and set forth in the RFP. The criteria include the following:
(1) The offeror's ability to coordinate the activities carried out through the Job Corps center with activities carried out under the appropriate State and local workforce investment plans;
(2) The offeror's ability to offer career technical training that has been proposed by the workforce council and the degree to which the training reflects employment opportunities in the local areas in which most of the enrollees intend to seek employment;
(3) The degree to which the offeror demonstrates relationships with the surrounding communities, including employers, labor organizations, State WDBs, Local WDBs, applicable one-stop centers, and the State and region in which the center is located;
(4) The offeror's past performance, if any, relating to operating or providing activities to a Job Corps center, including information regarding the offeror in any reports developed by the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Labor and the offeror's demonstrated effectiveness in assisting individuals in achieving the indicators of performance for eligible youth described in sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) of WIOA, listed in § 686.1010; and
(5) The offeror's ability to demonstrate a record of successfully assisting at-risk youth to connect to the workforce, including providing them with intensive academics and career technical training.
(d) In order to be eligible to operate a Job Corps center, the offeror also must submit the following information at such time and in such manner as required by the Secretary:
(1) A description of the program activities that will be offered at the center and how the academics and career technical training reflect State and local employment opportunities, including opportunities in in-demand industry sectors and occupations recommended by the workforce council;
(2) A description of the counseling, career transition, and support activities that will be offered at the center, including a description of the strategies and procedures the offeror will use to place graduates into unsubsidized employment or education leading to a recognized postsecondary credential upon completion of the program;
(3) A description of the offeror's demonstrated record of effectiveness in placing at-risk youth into employment and postsecondary education, including past performance of operating a Job Corps center and as appropriate, the entity's demonstrated effectiveness in assisting individuals in achieving the indicators of performance for eligible youth described in sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) of WIOA, listed in § 686.1010;
(4) A description of the relationships that the offeror has developed with State WDBs, Local WDBs, applicable one-stop centers, employers, labor organizations, State and local educational agencies, and the surrounding communities in which the center is located;
(5) A description of the offeror's ability to coordinate the activities carried out through the Job Corps center with activities carried out under the appropriate State Plan and local plans;
(6) A description of the strong fiscal controls the offeror has in place to ensure proper accounting of Federal funds and compliance with the Financial Management Information System established by the Secretary under sec. 159(a) of WIOA;
(7) A description of the steps to be taken to control costs in accordance with the Financial Management Information System established by the Secretary;
(8) A detailed budget of the activities that will be supported using Federal funds provided under this part and non-Federal resources;
(9) An assurance the offeror is licensed to operate in the State in which the center is located;
(10) An assurance that the offeror will comply with basic health and safety codes, including required disciplinary measures and Job Corps' Zero Tolerance Policy; and
(11) Any other information on additional selection factors required by the Secretary.
[81 FR 56443, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 64740, Nov. 25, 2019]
§ 686.320
What if a current center operator is deemed to be an operator of a high-performing center?
(a) If an offeror meets the requirements as an operator of a high-performing center as applied to a particular Job Corps center, that operator will be allowed to compete in any competitive selection process carried out for an award to operate that center.
(b) An offeror is considered to be an operator of a high-performing center if the Job Corps center operated by the offeror:
(1) Is ranked among the top 20 percent of Job Corps centers for the most recent preceding program year according to the rankings calculated under § 686.1060; and
(2) Meets the expected levels of performance established under § 686.1050 with respect to each of the primary indicators of performance for Job Corps centers:
(i) For the period of the most recent preceding 3 program years for which information is available at the time the determination is made, achieved an average of 100 percent, or higher, of the expected level of performance for the indicator; and
(ii) For the most recent preceding program year for which information is available at the time the determination is made, achieved 100 percent, or higher, of the expected level of performance established for the indicator.
(c) If any of the program years described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section precedes the implementation of the establishment of the expected levels of performance under § 686.1050 and the application of the primary indicators of performance for Job Corps centers identified in § 686.1010, an entity is considered an operator of a high-performing center during that period if the Job Corps center operated by the entity:
(1) Meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section with respect to such preceding program years using the performance of the Job Corps center regarding the national goals or targets established by the Office of the Job Corps under the previous performance accountability system for—
(i) The 6-month follow-up placement rate of graduates in employment, the military, education, or training;
(ii) The 12-month follow-up placement rate of graduates in employment, the military, education, or training;
(iii) The 6-month follow-up average weekly earnings of graduates;
(iv) The rate of attainment of secondary school diplomas or their recognized equivalent;
(v) The rate of attainment of completion certificates for career technical training;
(vi) Average literacy gains; and
(vii) Average numeracy gains; or
(2) Is ranked among the top five percent of Job Corps centers for the most
recent preceding program year according to the rankings calculated under § 686.1060.
§ 686.330
What is the length of an agreement entered into by the Secretary for operation of a Job Corps center and what are the conditions for renewal of such an agreement?
(a) Agreements are for not more than a 2-year period. The Secretary may exercise any contractual option to renew the agreement in 1-year increments for not more than 3 additional years.
(b) The Secretary will establish procedures for evaluating the option to renew an agreement that includes: An assessment of the factors described in paragraph (c) of this section; a review of contract performance and financial reporting compliance; a review of the program management and performance data described in §§ 686.1000 and 686.1010; an assessment of whether the center is on a performance improvement plan as described § 686.1070 and if so, whether the center is making measureable progress in completing the actions described in the plan; and an evaluation of the factors described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) The Secretary only will renew the agreement of an entity to operate a Job Corps center if the entity:
(1) Has a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics;
(2) Has adequate financial resources to perform the agreement;
(3) Has the necessary organization, experience, accounting and operational controls, and technical skills; and
(4) Is otherwise qualified and eligible under applicable laws and regulations, including that the contractor is not under suspension or debarred from eligibility for Federal contractors.
(d) The Secretary will not renew an agreement for an entity to operate a Job Corps center for any additional 1-year period if, for both of the 2 most recent preceding program years for which information is available at the time the determination is made, or if a second program year is not available, the preceding year for which information is available, such center:
(1) Has been ranked in the lowest 10 percent of Job Corps centers according to the rankings calculated under § 686.1060; and
(2) Failed to achieve an average of 50 percent or higher of the expected level of performance established under § 686.1050 with respect to each of the primary indicators of performance for eligible youth described in sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) of WIOA, listed in § 686.1010.
(e)(1) Information will be considered to be available for a program year for purposes of paragraph (d) of this section if for each of the primary indicators of performance, all of the students included in the cohort being measured either began their participation under the current center operator or, if they began their participation under the previous center operator, were on center for at least 6 months under the current operator. If an operator assumes operation of a center that meets the criteria under paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, the first contractual option year will not be denied based on the application of paragraph (d) of this section provided that the operator otherwise meets the requirements for renewal described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(2) If complete information for any of the indicators of performance described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is not available for either of the 2 program years described in paragraph (d) of this section, the Secretary will review partial program year data from the most recent program year for those indicators, if at least two quarters of data are available, when making the determination required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(f) If any of the program years described in paragraph (d) of this section precede the implementation of the establishment of the expected levels of performance under § 686.1050 and the application of the primary indicators of performance for Job Corps centers described in § 686.1010, the evaluation described in paragraph (d) of this section will be based on whether in its operation of the center the entity:
(1) Is ranked among the lowest 10 percent of Job Corps centers for the most recent preceding program year according to the ranking calculated under § 686.1060; and
(2) Meets the requirement of paragraph (d)(2) of this section with respect
to such preceding program years using the performance of the Job Corps center regarding the national goals or targets established by the Office of the Job Corps under the previous performance accountability system for—
(i) The 6-month follow-up placement rate of graduates in employment, the military, education, or training;
(ii) The 12-month follow-up placement rate of graduates in employment, the military, education, or training;
(iii) The 6-month follow-up average weekly earnings of graduates;
(iv) The rate of attainment of secondary school diplomas or their recognized equivalent;
(v) The rate of attainment of completion certificates for career technical training;
(vi) Average literacy gains; and
(vii) Average numeracy gains.
(g) The Secretary can exercise an option to renew the agreement with an entity notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section for no more than 2 additional years if the Secretary determines that a renewal would be in the best interest of the Job Corps program, taking into account factors including:
(1) Significant improvements in program performance in carrying out a performance improvement plan;
(2) That the performance is due to circumstances beyond the control of the entity, such as an emergency or disaster;
(3) A significant disruption in the operations of the center, including in the ability to continue to provide services to students, or significant increase in the cost of such operations; or
(4) A significant disruption in the procurement process with respect to carrying out a competition for the selection of a center operator.
(h) If the Secretary does make an exception and exercises the option to renew per paragraph (g) of this section, the Secretary will provide a detailed explanation of the rationale for exercising the option to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
§ 686.340
How are entities selected to receive funding to provide outreach and admission, career transition and other operations support services?
(a) The Secretary selects eligible entities to provide outreach and admission, career transition, and operational services on a competitive basis in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations. In selecting an entity, the Secretary issues requests for proposals (RFP) for operational support services according to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) and Department of Labor Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 29). The Secretary develops RFPs for operational support services in consultation with the Governor, the center workforce council (if established), and the Local WDB for the workforce development area in which the center is located.
(b) The RFP for each support service contract describes uniform specifications and standards, as well as specifications and requirements that are unique to the specific required operational support services.
(c) The contracting officer selects and funds operational support service contracts on the basis of an evaluation of the proposals received using criteria established by the Secretary and set forth in the RFP. The criteria may include the following, as applicable:
(1) The ability of the offeror to coordinate the activities carried out in relation to the Job Corps center with related activities carried out under the appropriate State Plan and local plans;
(2) The ability of the entity to offer career technical training that has been proposed by the workforce council and the degree to which the training reflects employment opportunities in the local areas in which most of the students intend to seek employment;
(3) The degree to which the offeror demonstrates relationships with the surrounding communities, including employers, labor organizations, State WDBs, Local WDBs, applicable one-stop centers, and the State and region in which the services are provided;
(4) The offeror's past performance, if any, relating to providing services to a
Job Corps center, including information regarding the offeror in any reports developed by the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Labor and the offeror's demonstrated effectiveness in assisting individuals in achieving the indicators of performance for eligible youth described in sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) of WIOA, listed in § 686.1010;
(5) The offeror's ability to demonstrate a record of successfully assisting at-risk youth to connect to the workforce; and
(6) Any other information on additional selection factors required by the Secretary.
[81 FR 56443, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 64740, Nov. 25, 2019]
§ 686.350
What conditions apply to the operation of a Civilian Conservation Center?
(a) The Secretary of Labor may enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture to operate Job Corps centers located on public land, which are called Civilian Conservation Centers (CCCs). Located primarily in rural areas, in addition to academics, career technical training, and workforce preparation skills training, CCCs provide programs of work experience to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest.
(b) When the Secretary of Labor enters into an agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture for the funding, establishment, and operation of CCCs, provisions are included to ensure that the Department of Agriculture complies with the regulations under this part.
(c) Enrollees in CCCs may provide assistance in addressing national, State, and local disasters, consistent with current child labor laws. The Secretary of Agriculture must ensure that enrollees are properly trained, equipped, supervised, and dispatched consistent with the standards for the conservation and rehabilitation of wildlife established under the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
).
(d) The Secretary of Agriculture must designate a Job Corps National Liaison to support the agreement between the Departments of Labor and Agriculture to operate CCCs.
(e) The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, may select an entity to operate a CCC in accordance with the requirements of § 686.310 if the Secretary of Labor determines appropriate.
(f) The Secretary of Labor has the discretion to close CCCs if the Secretary determines appropriate.
§ 686.360
What are the requirements for award of contracts and payments to Federal agencies?
(a) The requirements of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended; the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977; the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1); and the Department of Labor Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 29) apply to the award of contracts and to payments to Federal agencies.
(b) Job Corps funding of Federal agencies that operate CCCs are made by a transfer of obligational authority from the Department to the respective operating agency.

# Subpart D—Recruitment, Eligibility, Screening, Selection and Assignment, and Enrollment
§ 686.400
Who is eligible to participate in the Job Corps program?
(a) To be eligible to participate in the Job Corps, an individual must be:
(1) At least 16 and not more than 24 years of age at the time of enrollment, except that:
(i) The Job Corps Director may waive the maximum age limitation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section for an individual with a disability if he or she is otherwise eligible according to the requirements listed in this section and § 686.410; and
(ii) Not more than 20 percent of individuals enrolled nationwide may be individuals who are aged 22 to 24 years old;
(2) A low-income individual;
(3) An individual who is facing one or more of the following barriers to education and employment:
(i) Is basic skills deficient, as defined in WIOA sec. 3;
(ii) Is a school dropout;
(iii) Is homeless as defined in sec. 41403(6) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2(6)); is a homeless child or youth, as defined in sec. 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)); or is a runaway, an individual in foster care; or an individual who was in foster care and has aged out of the foster care system.
(iv) Is a parent; or
(v) Requires additional education, career technical training, or workforce preparation skills in order to obtain and retain employment that leads to economic self-sufficiency; and
(4) Meets the requirements of § 686.420, if applicable.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a veteran is eligible to become an enrollee if the individual:
(1) Meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section; and
(2) Does not meet the requirement of paragraph (a)(2) of this section because the military income earned by the individual within the 6-month period prior to the individual's application for Job Corps prevents the individual from meeting that requirement.
§ 686.410
Are there additional factors which are considered in selecting an eligible applicant for enrollment?
Yes, in accordance with procedures issued by the Secretary, an eligible applicant may be selected for enrollment only if:
(a) A determination is made, based on information relating to the background, needs, and interests of the applicant, that the applicant's educational and career and technical needs can best be met through the Job Corps program;
(b) A determination is made that there is a reasonable expectation the applicant can participate successfully in group situations and activities, and is not likely to engage in actions that would potentially:
(1) Prevent other students from receiving the benefit of the program;
(2) Be incompatible with the maintenance of sound discipline; or
(3) Impede satisfactory relationships between the center to which the student is assigned and surrounding local communities;
(c) The applicant is made aware of the center's rules, what the consequences are for failure to observe the rules, and agrees to comply with such rules, as described in procedures issued by the Secretary;
(d) The applicant has not been convicted of a felony consisting of murder, child abuse, or a crime involving rape or sexual assault. Other than these felony convictions, no one will be denied enrollment in Job Corps solely on the basis of contact with the criminal justice system. All applicants must submit to a background check conducted according to procedures established by the Secretary and in accordance with applicable State and local laws. If the background check finds that the applicant is on probation, parole, under a suspended sentence, or under the supervision of any agency as a result of court action or institutionalization, the court or appropriate supervising agency may certify in writing that it will approve of the applicant's participation in Job Corps, and provide full release from its supervision, and that the applicant's participation and release does not violate applicable laws and regulations; and
(e) Suitable arrangements are made for the care of any dependent children for the proposed period of enrollment.
§ 686.420
Are there any special requirements for enrollment related to the Military Selective Service Act?
(a) Yes, each male applicant 18 years of age or older must present evidence that he has complied with sec. 3 of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 451
et seq.
) if required; and
(b) When a male student turns 18 years of age, he must submit evidence to the center that he has complied with the requirements of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 451
et seq.
).
§ 686.430
What entities conduct outreach and admissions activities for the Job Corps program?
The Secretary makes arrangements with outreach and admissions providers to perform Job Corps recruitment, screening and admissions functions according to standards and procedures issued by the Secretary. Entities eligible to receive funds to provide outreach and admissions services are identified in § 686.300.
§ 686.440
What are the responsibilities of outreach and admissions providers?
(a) Outreach and admissions agencies are responsible for:
(1) Developing outreach and referral sources;
(2) Actively seeking out potential applicants;
(3) Conducting personal interviews with all applicants to identify their needs and eligibility status; and
(4) Identifying youth who are interested and likely Job Corps participants.
(b) Outreach and admissions providers are responsible for completing all Job Corps application forms and determining whether applicants meet the eligibility and selection criteria for participation in Job Corps as provided in §§ 686.400 and 686.410.
(c) The Secretary may decide that determinations with regard to one or more of the eligibility criteria will be made by the National Director or his or her designee.
§ 686.450
How are applicants who meet eligibility and selection criteria assigned to centers?
(a) Each applicant who meets the application and selection requirements of §§ 686.400 and 686.410 is assigned to a center based on an assignment plan developed by the Secretary in consultation with the operators of Job Corps centers. The assignment plan identifies a target for the maximum percentage of students at each center who come from the State or region nearest the center, and the regions surrounding the center. The assignment plan is based on an analysis of the following non-exclusive list of factors that will be analyzed in consultation with center operators:
(1) The number of eligible individuals in the State and region where the center is located and the regions surrounding where the center is located;
(2) The demand for enrollment in Job Corps in the State and region where the center is located and in surrounding regions;
(3) The size and enrollment level of the center, including the education, training, and supportive services provided through the center; and
(4) The performance of the Job Corps center relating to the expected levels of performance for indicators described in WIOA sec. 159(c)(1), and whether any actions have been taken with respect to the center under secs. 159(f)(2) and 159(f)(3) of WIOA.
(b) Eligible applicants are assigned to the center that offers the type of career technical training selected by the individual, and among the centers that offer such career technical training, is closest to the home of the individual. The Secretary may waive this requirement if:
(1) The enrollee would be unduly delayed in participating in the Job Corps program because the closest center is operating at full capacity; or
(2) The parent or guardian of the enrollee requests assignment of the enrollee to another Job Corps center due to circumstances in the community that would impair prospects for successful completion by the enrollee.
(c) If a parent or guardian objects to the assignment of a student under the age of 18 to a center other than the center closest to home that offers the desired career technical training, the Secretary must not make such an assignment.
§ 686.460
What restrictions are there on the assignment of eligible applicants for nonresidential enrollment in Job Corps?
No more than 20 percent of students enrolled in Job Corps nationwide may be nonresidential students.
§ 686.470
May an individual who is determined to be ineligible or an individual who is denied enrollment appeal that decision?
(a) A person who is determined to be ineligible to participate in Job Corps under § 686.400 or a person who is not selected for enrollment under § 686.410 may appeal the determination to the outreach and admissions agency within 60 days of the determination. The appeal will be resolved according to the procedures in §§ 686.960 and 686.965. If the appeal is denied by the outreach/admissions contractor or the center, the person may appeal the decision in writing to the Regional Director within 60 days of the date of the denial. The Regional Director will decide within 60 days whether to reverse or approve the appealed decision. The decision by the Regional Director is the Department's final decision.
(b) If an applicant believes that he or she has been determined ineligible or not selected for enrollment based upon a factor prohibited by sec. 188 of WIOA, the individual may proceed under the applicable Department nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188 at 29 CFR part 38.
(c) An applicant who is determined to be ineligible or a person who is denied enrollment must be referred to the appropriate one-stop center or other local service provider.
§ 686.480
At what point is an applicant considered to be enrolled in Job Corps?
(a) To be considered enrolled as a Job Corps student, an applicant selected for enrollment must physically arrive at the assigned Job Corps center on the appointed date. However, applicants selected for enrollment who arrive at their assigned centers by government furnished transportation are considered to be enrolled on their dates of departure by such transportation.
(b) Center operators must document the enrollment of new students according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 686.490
How long may a student be enrolled in Job Corps?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a student may remain enrolled in Job Corps for no more than 2 years.
(b)(1) An extension of a student's enrollment may be authorized in special cases according to procedures issued by the Secretary;
(2) A student's enrollment in an advanced career training program may be extended in order to complete the program for a period not to exceed 1 year;
(3) An extension of a student's enrollment may be authorized in the case of a student with a disability who would reasonably be expected to meet the standards for a Job Corps graduate if allowed to participate in the Job Corps for not more than 1 additional year; and
(4) An enrollment extension may be granted to a student who participates in national service, as authorized by a Civilian Conservation Center, for the amount of time equal to the period of national service.

# Subpart E—Program Activities and Center Operations
§ 686.500
What services must Job Corps centers provide?
(a) Job Corps centers must provide an intensive, well-organized, and fully supervised program including:
(1) Educational activities, including:
(i) Career technical training;
(ii) Academic instruction;
(iii) Employability and skills training; and
(iv) Independent learning and living skills development.
(2) Work-based learning and experience;
(3) Residential support services; and
(4) Other services as required by the Secretary.
(b) In addition, centers must provide students with access to the career services described in secs. 134(c)(2)(A)(i)-(xi) of WIOA.
§ 686.505
What types of training must Job Corps centers provide?
(a) Job Corps centers must provide students with a career technical training program that is:
(1) Aligned with industry-recognized standards and credentials and with program guidance; and
(2) Linked to employment opportunities in in-demand industry sectors and occupations both in the area in which the center is located and, if practicable, in the area the student plans to reside after graduation.
(b) Each center must provide education programs, including: An English language acquisition program, high school diploma or high school equivalency certification program, and academic skills training necessary for students to master skills in their chosen career technical training programs.
(c) Each center must provide programs for students to learn and practice employability and independent learning and living skills including: job search and career development, interpersonal relations, driver's education, study and critical thinking skills, financial literacy and other skills specified in program guidance.
(d) All Job Corps training programs must be based on industry and academic skills standards leading to recognized industry and academic credentials, applying evidence-based instructional approaches, and resulting in:
(1) Students' employment in unsubsidized, in-demand jobs with the potential for advancement opportunities;
(2) Enrollment in advanced education and training programs or apprenticeships, including registered apprenticeship; or
(3) Enlistment in the Armed Services.
(e) Specific career technical training programs offered by individual centers must be approved by the Regional Director according to policies issued by the Secretary.
(f) Center workforce councils described in § 686.810 must review appropriate labor market information, identify in-demand industry sectors and employment opportunities in local areas where students will look for employment, determine the skills and education necessary for those jobs, and as appropriate, recommend changes in the center's career technical training program to the Secretary.
(g) Each center must implement a system to evaluate and track the progress and achievements of each student at regular intervals.
(h) Each center must develop a training plan that must be available for review and approval by the appropriate Regional Director.
§ 686.510
Are entities other than Job Corps center operators permitted to provide academic and career technical training?
(a) The Secretary may arrange for the career technical and academic education of Job Corps students through local public or private educational agencies, career and technical educational institutions or technical institutes, or other providers such as business, union or union-affiliated organizations with demonstrated effectiveness, as long as the entity can provide education and training substantially equivalent in cost and quality to that which the Secretary could provide through other means.
(b) Entities providing these services will be selected in accordance with the requirements of § 686.310.
§ 686.515
What are advanced career training programs?
(a) The Secretary may arrange for programs of advanced career training (ACT) for selected students, which may be provided through the eligible training providers identified in WIOA sec. 122 in which the students continue to participate in the Job Corps program for a period not to exceed 1 year in addition to the period of participation to which these students would otherwise be limited.
(b) Students participating in an ACT program are eligible to receive:
(1) All of the benefits provided to a residential Job Corps student; or
(2) A monthly stipend equal to the average value of the benefits described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) Any operator may enroll more students than otherwise authorized by the Secretary in an ACT program if, in accordance with standards developed by the Secretary, the operator demonstrates:
(1) Participants in such a program have achieved a satisfactory rate of completion and placement in training-related jobs; and
(2) For the most recently preceding 2 program years, the operator has, on average, met or exceeded the expected levels of performance under WIOA sec.
159(c)(1) for each of the primary indicators described in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii), listed in § 686.1010.
§ 686.520
What responsibilities do the center operators have in managing work-based learning?
(a) The center operator must emphasize and implement work-based learning programs for students through center program activities, including career and technical skills training, and through arrangements with employers. Work-based learning must be under actual working conditions and must be designed to enhance the employability, responsibility, and confidence of the students. Work-based learning usually occurs in tandem with students' career technical training.
(b) The center operator must ensure that students are assigned only to workplaces that meet the safety standards described in § 686.920.
§ 686.525
Are students permitted to hold jobs other than work-based learning opportunities?
Yes, a center operator may authorize a student to participate in gainful leisure time employment, as long as the employment does not interfere with required scheduled activities.
§ 686.530
What residential support services must Job Corps center operators provide?
Job Corps center operators must provide the following services according to procedures issued by the Secretary:
(a) A center-wide quality living and learning environment that supports the overall training program and includes a safe, secure, clean and attractive physical and social environment, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day;
(b) An ongoing, structured personal counseling program for students provided by qualified staff;
(c) A quality, safe and clean food service, to provide nutritious meals for students;
(d) Medical services, through provision or coordination of a wellness program which includes access to basic medical, dental and mental health services, as described in the Policy and Requirements Handbook, for all students from the date of enrollment until separation from the Job Corps program;
(e) A recreation/avocational program that meets the needs of all students;
(f) A student leadership program and an elected student government; and
(g) A student welfare association for the benefit of all students that is funded by non-appropriated funds that come from sources such as snack bars, vending machines, disciplinary fines, donations, and other fundraising activities, and is run by an elected student government, with the help of a staff advisor.
§ 686.535
Are Job Corps centers required to maintain a student accountability system?
Yes, each Job Corps center must establish and implement an effective system to account for and document the daily whereabouts, participation, and status of students during their Job Corps enrollment. The system must enable center staff to detect and respond to instances of unauthorized or unexplained student absence. Each center must operate its student accountability system according to requirements and procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 686.540
Are Job Corps centers required to establish behavior management systems?
(a) Yes, each Job Corps center must establish and maintain its own student incentives system to encourage and reward students' accomplishments.
(b) The Job Corps center must establish and maintain a behavior management system, based on a behavior management plan, according to standards of conduct and procedures established by the Secretary. The behavior management plan must be approved by the Job Corps regional office and reviewed annually. The behavior management system must include a zero tolerance policy for violence and drugs as described in § 686.545. All criminal incidents will be promptly reported to local law enforcement.
§ 686.545
What is Job Corps' zero tolerance policy?
(a) All center operators must comply with Job Corps' zero tolerance policy
as established by the Secretary. Job Corps has a zero tolerance policy for infractions including but not limited to:
(1) Acts of violence, as defined by the Secretary;
(2) Use, sale, or possession of a controlled substance, as defined at 21 U.S.C. 802;
(3) Abuse of alcohol;
(4) Possession of unauthorized goods; or
(5) Other illegal or disruptive activity.
(b) As part of this policy, all students must be tested for drugs as a condition of participation.
(c) The zero tolerance policy specifies the offenses that result in the separation of students from the Job Corps. The center director is expressly responsible for determining when there is a violation of this policy.
§ 686.550
How does Job Corps ensure that students receive due process in disciplinary actions?
The center operator must ensure that all students receive due process in disciplinary proceedings according to procedures developed by the Secretary. These procedures must include center fact-finding and behavior review boards, a code of sanctions under which the penalty of separation from Job Corps might be imposed, and procedures for students to submit an appeal to a Job Corps regional appeal board following a center's decision to discharge involuntarily the student from Job Corps.
§ 686.555
What responsibilities do Job Corps centers have in assisting students with child care needs?
(a) Job Corps centers are responsible for coordinating with outreach and admissions agencies to assist applicants, whenever feasible, with making arrangements for child care. Prior to enrollment, a program applicant with dependent children who provides primary or custodial care must certify that suitable arrangements for child care have been established for the proposed period of enrollment.
(b) Child development programs may be located at Job Corps centers with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 686.560
What are the center's responsibilities in ensuring that students' religious rights are respected?
(a) Centers must ensure that a student has the right to worship or not worship as he or she chooses.
(b) Students who believe their religious rights have been violated may file complaints under the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 38.
(c) Requirements related to equal treatment of religious organizations in Department of Labor programs, and to protection of religious liberty of Department of Labor social service providers and beneficiaries, are found at subpart D of 29 CFR part 2.
See also
§§ 683.255 and 683.285 of this chapter; 29 CFR part 38.
§ 686.565
Is Job Corps authorized to conduct pilot and demonstration projects?
Yes, the Secretary may undertake experimental, research and demonstration projects related to the Job Corps program according to WIOA sec. 156(a), provided that such projects are developed, approved, and conducted in accordance with policies and procedures developed by the Secretary.

# Subpart F—Student Support
§ 686.600
Are students provided with government-paid transportation to and from Job Corps centers?
Yes, Job Corps provides for the transportation of students between their homes and centers as described in policies and procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 686.610
When are students authorized to take leaves of absence from their Job Corps centers?
(a) Job Corps students are eligible for annual leaves, emergency leaves and other types of leaves of absence from their assigned centers according to criteria and requirements issued by the Secretary. Additionally, enrollees in Civilian Conservation Centers may take leave to provide assistance in addressing national, State, and local disasters, consistent with current laws and regulations, including child labor laws and regulations.
(b) Center operators and other service providers must account for student leave according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 686.620
Are Job Corps students eligible to receive cash allowances and performance bonuses?
(a) Yes, according to criteria and rates established by the Secretary, Job Corps students receive cash living allowances, performance bonuses, and allotments for care of dependents. Graduates receive post-separation transition allowances according to § 686.750.
(b) In the event of a student's death, any amount due under this section is paid according to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5582 governing issues such as designation of beneficiary, order of precedence, and related matters.
§ 686.630
Are student allowances subject to Federal payroll taxes?
Yes, Job Corps student allowances are subject to Federal payroll tax withholding and social security taxes. Job Corps students are considered to be Federal employees for purposes of Federal payroll taxes.
§ 686.640
Are students provided with clothing?
Yes, Job Corps students are provided cash clothing allowances and/or articles of clothing, including safety clothing, when needed for their participation in Job Corps and their successful entry into the work force. Center operators and other service providers must issue clothing and clothing assistance to students according to rates, criteria, and procedures issued by the Secretary.

# Subpart G—Career Transition and Graduate Services
§ 686.700
What are a Job Corps center's responsibilities in preparing students for career transition services?
Job Corps centers must assess and counsel students to determine their competencies, capabilities, and readiness for career transition services.
§ 686.710
What career transition services are provided for Job Corps enrollees?
Job Corps career transition services focus on placing program graduates in:
(a) Full-time jobs that are related to their career technical training and career pathway that lead to economic self-sufficiency;
(b) Postsecondary education;
(c) Advanced training programs, including registered apprenticeship programs; or
(d) The Armed Forces.
§ 686.720
Who provides career transition services?
The one-stop delivery system must be used to the maximum extent practicable in placing graduates and former enrollees in jobs. Multiple other resources also may provide post-program services, including but not limited to Job Corps career transition service providers under a contract or other agreement with the Department of Labor, and State vocational rehabilitation agencies for individuals with disabilities.
§ 686.730
What are the responsibilities of career transition service providers?
(a) Career transition service providers are responsible for:
(1) Contacting graduates;
(2) Assisting them in improving skills in resume preparation, interviewing techniques and job search strategies;
(3) Identifying job leads or educational and training opportunities through coordination with Local WDBs, one-stop operators and partners, employers, unions and industry organizations;
(4) Placing graduates in jobs, registered apprenticeship, the Armed Forces, or postsecondary education or training, or referring former students for additional services in their local communities as appropriate; and
(5) Providing placement services for former enrollees according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
(b) Career transition service providers must record and submit all Job Corps placement information according to procedures established by the Secretary.
§ 686.740
What services are provided for program graduates?
According to procedures issued by the Secretary, career transition and support services must be provided to program graduates for up to 12 months after graduation.
§ 686.750
Are graduates provided with transition allowances?
Yes, graduates receive post-separation transition allowances according to policies and procedures established by the Secretary. Transition allowances are incentive-based to reflect a graduate's attainment of academic credentials and those associated with career technical training such as industry-recognized credentials.
§ 686.760
What services are provided to former enrollees?
(a) Up to 3 months of employment services, including career services offered through a one-stop center, may be provided to former enrollees.
(b) According to procedures issued by the Secretary, other career transition services as determined appropriate may be provided to former enrollees.

# Subpart H—Community Connections
§ 686.800
How do Job Corps centers and service providers become involved in their local communities?
(a) The director of each Job Corps center must ensure the establishment and development of mutually beneficial business and community relationships and networks. Establishing and developing networks includes relationships with:
(1) Local and distant employers;
(2) Applicable one-stop centers and Local WDBs:
(3) Entities offering apprenticeship opportunities, including registered apprenticeships, and youth programs;
(4) Labor-management organizations and local labor organizations;
(5) Employers and contractors that support national training programs and initiatives; and
(6) Community-based organizations, non-profit organizations, and intermediaries providing workforce development-related services.
(b) Each Job Corps center also must establish and develop relationships with members of the community in which it is located. Members of the community must be informed of the projects of the Job Corps center and changes in the rules, procedures, or activities of the center that may affect the community. Events of mutual interest to the community and the Job Corps center must be planned to create and maintain community relations and community support.
§ 686.810
What is the makeup of a workforce council and what are its responsibilities?
(a) Each Job Corps center must establish a workforce council, according to procedures established by the Secretary. The workforce council must include:
(1) Non-governmental and private sector employers;
(2) Representatives of labor organizations (where present) and of employees;
(3) Job Corps enrollees and graduates; and
(4) In the case of a single-State local area, the workforce council must include a representative of the State WDB constituted under § 679.110 of this chapter.
(b) A majority of the council members must be business owners, chief executives or chief operating officers of nongovernmental employers or other private sector employers, or their designees, who have substantial management, hiring or policy responsibility and who represent businesses with employment opportunities in the local area and the areas in which students will seek employment.
(c) The workforce council may include, or otherwise provide for consultation with, employers from outside the local area who are likely to hire a significant number of enrollees from the Job Corps center.
(d) The workforce council must:
(1) Work with all applicable Local WDBs and review labor market information to determine and provide recommendations to the Secretary regarding the center's career technical training offerings, including identification of emerging occupations suitable for training;
(2) Review all relevant labor market information, including related information in the State Plan or the local plan, to:
(i) Recommend in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the area in which the center operates;
(ii) Determine employment opportunities in the areas in which enrollees intend to seek employment;
(iii) Determine the skills and education necessary to obtain the identified employment; and
(iv) Recommend to the Secretary the type of career technical training that must be implemented at the center to enable enrollees to obtain the employment opportunities identified; and
(3) Meet at least once every 6 months to reevaluate the labor market information, and other relevant information, to determine and recommend to the Secretary any necessary changes in the career technical training provided at the center.
§ 686.820
How will Job Corps coordinate with other agencies?
(a) The Secretary issues guidelines for the national office, regional offices, Job Corps centers and operational support providers to use in developing and maintaining cooperative relationships with other agencies and institutions, including law enforcement, educational institutions, communities, and other employment and training programs and agencies.
(b) The Secretary develops polices and requirements to ensure linkages with the one-stop delivery system to the greatest extent practicable, as well as with other Federal, State, and local programs, and youth programs funded under title I of WIOA. These linkages enhance services to youth who face multiple barriers to employment and must include, where appropriate:
(1) Referrals of applicants and students;
(2) Participant assessment;
(3) Pre-employment and work maturity skills training;
(4) Work-based learning;
(5) Job search, occupational, and basic skills training; and
(6) Provision of continued services for graduates.
(c) Job Corps is identified as a required one-stop partner. Wherever practicable, Job Corps centers and operational support contractors must establish cooperative relationships and partnerships with one-stop centers and other one-stop partners, Local WDBs, and other programs for youth.

# Subpart I—Administrative and Management Provisions
§ 686.900
Are damages caused by the acts or omissions of students eligible for payment under the Federal Tort Claims Act?
Yes, students are considered Federal employees for purposes of the FTCA. (28 U.S.C. 2671
et seq.
) Claims for such damage must be filed pursuant to the procedures found in 29 CFR part 15, subpart D.
§ 686.905
Are loss and damages that occur to persons or personal property of students at Job Corps centers eligible for reimbursement?
Yes, the Job Corps may pay students for valid claims under the procedures found in 29 CFR part 15, subpart D.
§ 686.910
If a student is injured in the performance of duty as a Job Corps student, what benefits may the student receive?
(a) Job Corps students are considered Federal employees for purposes of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) as specified in sec. 157(a)(3) of WIOA. (29 U.S.C. 2897(a)(3))
(b) Job Corps students may be entitled to benefits under FECA as provided by 5 U.S.C. 8143 for injuries occurring in the performance of duty.
(c) Job Corps students must meet the same eligibility tests for FECA benefits that apply to all other Federal employees. The requirements for FECA benefits may be found at 5 U.S.C. 8101,
et seq.
and part 10 of this title. The Department of Labor's Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) administers the FECA program; all FECA determinations are within the exclusive authority of the OWCP, subject to appeal to the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board.
(d) Whenever a student is injured, develops an occupationally related illness, or dies while in the performance
of duty, the procedures of the OWCP, at part 10 of this title, must be followed. To assist OWCP in determining FECA eligibility, a thorough investigation of the circumstances and a medical evaluation must be completed and required forms must be timely filed by the center operator with the Department's OWCP. Additional information regarding Job Corps FECA claims may be found in OWCP's regulations and procedures available on the Department's Web site located at
https://www.dol.gov/
.
§ 686.915
When is a Job Corps student considered to be in the performance of duty?
(a) Performance of duty is a determination that must be made by the OWCP under FECA, and is based on the individual circumstances in each claim.
(b) In general, residential students may be considered to be in the “performance of duty” when:
(1) They are on center under the supervision and control of Job Corps officials;
(2) They are engaged in any authorized Job Corps activity;
(3) They are in authorized travel status; or
(4) They are engaged in any authorized offsite activity.
(c) Non-resident students are generally considered to be “in performance of duty” as Federal employees when they are engaged in any authorized Job Corps activity, from the time they arrive at any scheduled center activity until they leave the activity. The standard rules governing coverage of Federal employees during travel to and from work apply. These rules are described in guidance issued by the Secretary.
(d) Students are generally considered to be not in the performance of duty when:
(1) They are Absent Without Leave (AWOL);
(2) They are at home, whether on pass or on leave;
(3) They are engaged in an unauthorized offsite activity; or
(4) They are injured or ill due to their own willful misconduct, intent to cause injury or death to oneself or another, or through intoxication or illegal use of drugs.
§ 686.920
How are students protected from unsafe or unhealthy situations?
(a) The Secretary establishes procedures to ensure that students are not required or permitted to work, be trained, reside in, or receive services in buildings or surroundings or under conditions that are unsanitary or hazardous. Whenever students are employed or in training for jobs, they must be assigned only to jobs or training which observe applicable Federal, State and local health and safety standards.
(b) The Secretary develops procedures to ensure compliance with applicable Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations and Wage and Hour Division regulations.
§ 686.925
What are the requirements for criminal law enforcement jurisdiction on center property?
(a) All Job Corps property which would otherwise be under exclusive Federal legislative jurisdiction is considered under concurrent jurisdiction with the appropriate State and locality with respect to criminal law enforcement. Concurrent jurisdiction extends to all portions of the property, including housing and recreational facilities, in addition to the portions of the property used for education and training activities.
(b) Centers located on property under concurrent Federal-State jurisdiction must establish agreements with Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies to enforce criminal laws.
(c) The Secretary develops procedures to ensure that any searches of a student's person, personal area, or belongings for unauthorized goods follow applicable right-to-privacy laws.
§ 686.930
Are Job Corps operators and service providers authorized to pay State or local taxes on gross receipts?
(a) A private for-profit or a non-profit Job Corps service provider is not liable, directly or indirectly, to any State or subdivision for any gross receipts
taxes, business privilege taxes measured by gross receipts, or any similar taxes in connection with any payments made to or by such service provider for operating a center or other Job Corps program or activity. The service provider is not liable to any State or subdivision to collect or pay any sales, excise, use, or similar tax imposed upon the sale to or use by such deliverer of any property, service, or other item in connection with the operation of a center or other Job Corps program or activity.
(b) If a State or local authority compels a center operator or other service provider to pay such taxes, the center operator or service provider may pay the taxes with Federal funds, but must document and report the State or local requirement according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 686.935
What are the financial management responsibilities of Job Corps center operators and other service providers?
(a) Center operators and other service providers must manage Job Corps funds using financial management information systems that meet the specifications and requirements of the Secretary.
(b) These financial management systems must:
(1) Provide accurate, complete, and current disclosures of the costs of their Job Corps activities;
(2) Ensure that expenditures of funds are necessary, reasonable, allocable, and allowable in accordance with applicable cost principles;
(3) Use account structures specified by the Secretary;
(4) Ensure the ability to comply with cost reporting requirements and procedures issued by the Secretary; and
(5) Maintain sufficient cost data for effective planning, monitoring, and evaluation of program activities and for determining the allowability of reported costs.
§ 686.940
Are center operators and service providers subject to Federal audits?
(a) Yes, Center operators and service providers are subject to Federal audits.
(b) The Secretary arranges for the survey, audit, or evaluation of each Job Corps center and service provider at least once every 3 years, by Federal auditors or independent public accountants. The Secretary may arrange for more frequent audits.
(c) Center operators and other service providers are responsible for giving full cooperation and access to books, documents, papers and records to duly appointed Federal auditors and evaluators.
§ 686.945
What are the procedures for management of student records?
The Secretary issues guidelines for a system for maintaining records for each student during enrollment and for disposition of such records after separation.
§ 686.950
What procedures apply to disclosure of information about Job Corps students and program activities?
(a) The Secretary develops procedures to respond to requests for information or records or other necessary disclosures pertaining to students.
(b) Department disclosure of Job Corps information must be handled according to the Freedom of Information Act and according to Department regulations at 29 CFR part 70.
(c) Job Corps contractors are not “agencies” for Freedom of Information Act purposes. Therefore, their records are not subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act or 29 CFR part 70.
(d) The regulations at 29 CFR part 71 apply to a system of records covered by the Privacy Act of 1974 maintained by the Department or to a similar system maintained by a contractor, such as a screening agency, contract center operator, or career transition service provider on behalf of the Job Corps.
§ 686.955
What are the reporting requirements for center operators and operational support service providers?
The Secretary establishes procedures to ensure the timely and complete reporting of necessary financial and program information to maintain accountability. Center operators and operational support service providers are
responsible for the accuracy and integrity of all reports and data they provide.
§ 686.960
What procedures are available to resolve complaints and disputes?
(a) Each Job Corps center operator and service provider must establish and maintain a grievance procedure for filing complaints and resolving disputes from applicants, students and/or other interested parties about its programs and activities. A hearing on each complaint or dispute must be conducted within 30 days of the filing of the complaint or dispute. A decision on the complaint must be made by the center operator or service provider, as appropriate, within 60 days after the filing of the complaint, and a copy of the decision must be immediately served, by first-class mail, on the complainant and any other party to the complaint. Except for complaints under § 686.470 or complaints alleging fraud or other criminal activity, complaints may be filed within 1 year of the occurrence that led to the complaint.
(b) The procedure established under paragraph (a) of this section must include procedures to process complaints alleging violations of sec. 188 of WIOA, consistent with Department nondiscrimination regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA at 29 CFR part 38 and § 686.985.
§ 686.965
How does Job Corps ensure that complaints or disputes are resolved in a timely fashion?
(a) If a complaint is not resolved by the center operator or service provider in the time frames described in § 686.960, the person making the complaint may request that the Regional Director determine whether reasonable cause exists to believe that WIOA or regulations for this part of WIOA have been violated. The request must be filed with the Regional Director within 60 days from the date that the center operator or service provider should have issued the decision.
(b) Following the receipt of a request for review under paragraph (a) of this section, the Regional Director must determine within 60 days whether there has been a violation of WIOA or the WIOA regulations. If the Regional Director determines that there has been a violation of WIOA or WIOA regulations, (s)he may direct the operator or service provider to remedy the violation or direct the service provider to issue a decision to resolve the dispute according to the service provider's grievance procedures. If the service provider does not comply with the Regional Director's decision within 30 days, the Regional Director may impose a sanction on the center operator or service provider for violating WIOA or WIOA regulations, and/or for failing to issue a decision. Decisions imposing sanctions upon a center operator or service provider may be appealed to the Department of Labor Office of Administrative Law Judges under § 683.800 or § 683.840 of this chapter.
§ 686.970
How does Job Corps ensure that centers or other service providers comply with the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the WIOA regulations?
(a) If the Department receives a complaint or has reason to believe that a center or other service provider is failing to comply with the requirements of WIOA or WIOA regulations, the Regional Director must investigate the allegation and determine within 90 days after receiving the complaint or otherwise learning of the alleged violation, whether such allegation or complaint is true.
(b) As a result of such a determination, the Regional Director may:
(1) Direct the center operator or service provider to handle a complaint through the grievance procedures established under § 686.960; or
(2) Investigate and determine whether the center operator or service provider is in compliance with WIOA and WIOA regulations. If the Regional Director determines that the center or service provider is not in compliance with WIOA or WIOA regulations, the Regional Director may take action to resolve the complaint under § 686.965(b), or will report the incident to the Department of Labor Office of the Inspector General, as described in § 683.620 of this chapter.
§ 686.975
How does Job Corps ensure that contract disputes will be resolved?
A dispute between the Department and a Job Corps contractor will be handled according to the Contract Disputes Act and applicable regulations.
§ 686.980
How does Job Corps resolve disputes between the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Department of Agriculture regarding the operation of Job Corps centers?
Disputes between the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Department of Agriculture regarding operating a center will be handled according to the interagency agreement between the two agencies.
§ 686.985
What Department of Labor equal opportunity and nondiscrimination regulations apply to Job Corps?
Nondiscrimination requirements, procedures, complaint processing, and compliance reviews are governed by, as applicable, provisions of the following Department of Labor regulations:
(a) Regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA for programs receiving Federal financial assistance under WIOA found at 29 CFR part 38;
(b) Title 29 CFR part 33 for programs conducted by the Department of Labor; and
(c) Title 41 CFR chapter 60 for entities that have a Federal government contract.

# Subpart J—Performance
§ 686.1000
How is the performance of the Job Corps program assessed?
(a) The performance of the Job Corps program as a whole, and the performance of individual centers, outreach and admissions providers, and career transition service providers, is assessed in accordance with the regulations in this part and procedures and standards issued by the Secretary, through a national performance management system, including the Outcome Measurement System (OMS).
(b) The national performance management system will include measures that reflect the primary indicators of performance described in § 686.1010, the information needed to complete the Annual Report described in § 686.1040, and any other information the Secretary determines is necessary to manage and evaluate the effectiveness of the Job Corps program. The Secretary will issue annual guidance describing the performance management system and outcome measurement system.
(c) Annual performance assessments based on the measures described in paragraph (b) of this section are done for each center operator and other service providers, including outreach and admissions providers and career transition providers.
§ 686.1010
What are the primary indicators of performance for Job Corps centers and the Job Corps program?
The primary indicators of performance for eligible youth are described in sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) of WIOA. They are:
(a) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(b) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(c) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(d) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program. Program participants who obtain a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent will be included in the percentage only if they also have obtained or retained employment, or are in an education or training program leading to a recognized postsecondary credential, within 1 year after exit from the program;
(e) The percentage of program participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill
gains toward such a credential or employment; and
(f) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit.
[81 FR 56428, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13613, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 686.1020
What are the indicators of performance for Job Corps outreach and admissions providers?
The Secretary establishes performance indicators for outreach and admission service providers serving the Job Corps program. They include, but are not limited to:
(a) The number of enrollees recruited, compared to the established goals for such recruitment, and the number of enrollees who remain committed to the program for 90 days after enrollment;
(b) The percentage and number of former enrollees, including the number dismissed under the zero tolerance policy described in sec. 152(b) of WIOA and § 686.545;
(c) The maximum attainable percent of enrollees at the Job Corps center that reside in the State in which the center is located, and the maximum attainable percentage of enrollees at the Job Corps center that reside in the State in which the center is located and in surrounding regions, as compared to the percentage targets established by the Secretary for the center for each of those measures;
(d) The cost per enrollee, calculated by comparing the number of enrollees at the center in a program year to the total budget for such center in the same program year; and
(e) Additional indicators of performance, as necessary.
§ 686.1030
What are the indicators of performance for Job Corps career transition service providers?
The Secretary establishes performance indicators for career transition service providers serving the Job Corps program. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) The primary indicators of performance for eligible youth in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii), as listed in § 686.1010;
(b) The number of graduates who entered the Armed Forces;
(c) The number of graduates who entered registered apprenticeship programs;
(d) The number of graduates who entered unsubsidized employment related to the career technical training received through the Job Corps program;
(e) The number of graduates who entered unsubsidized employment not related to the education and training received through the Job Corps program;
(f) The percentage and number of graduates who enter postsecondary education;
(g) The average wage of graduates who entered unsubsidized employment:
(1) On the first day of such employment; and
(2) On the day that is 6 months after such first day; and
(h) Additional indicators of performance, as necessary.
§ 686.1040
What information will be collected for use in the Annual Report?
The Secretary will collect and submit in the Annual Report described in sec. 159(c)(4) of WIOA, which will include the following information on each Job Corps center, and the Job Corps program as a whole:
(a) Information on the performance, based on the performance indicators described § 686.1010, as compared to the expected level of performance established under § 686.1050 for each performance indicator;
(b) Information on the performance of outreach service providers and career transition service providers on the performance indicators established under §§ 686.1020 and 686.1030, as compared to the expected levels of performance established under § 686.1050 for each of those indicators;
(c) The number of enrollees served;
(d) Demographic information on the enrollees served, including age, race, gender, and education and income level;
(e) The number of graduates of a Job Corps center;
(f) The number of graduates who entered the Armed Forces;
(g) The number of graduates who entered registered apprenticeship programs;
(h) The number of graduates who received a regular secondary school diploma;
(i) The number of graduates who received a State recognized equivalent of a secondary school diploma;
(j) The number of graduates who entered unsubsidized employment related to the career technical training received through the Job Corps program and the number who entered unsubsidized employment not related to the education and training received;
(k) The percentage and number of former enrollees, including the number dismissed under the zero tolerance policy described in § 686.545;
(l) The percentage and number of graduates who enter postsecondary education;
(m) The average wage of graduates who enter unsubsidized employment:
(1) On the first day of such employment; and
(2) On the day that is 6 months after such first day;
(n) The maximum attainable percent of enrollees at a Job Corps center that reside in the State in which the center is located, and the maximum attainable percentage of enrollees at a Job Corps center that reside in the State in which the center is located and in surrounding regions, as compared to the percentage targets established by the Secretary for the center for each of those measures;
(o) The cost per enrollee, which is calculated by comparing the number of enrollees at the center in a program year to the total budget for such center in the same program year;
(p) The cost per graduate, which is calculated by comparing the number of graduates of the center in a program year compared to the total budget for such center in the same program year;
(q) Information regarding the state of Job Corps buildings and facilities, including a review of requested construction, rehabilitation, and acquisition projects, by each Job Corps center, and a review of new facilities under construction;
(r) Available information regarding the national and community service activities of enrollees, particularly those enrollees at Civilian Conservation Centers; and
(s) Any additional information required by the Secretary.
§ 686.1050
How are the expected levels of performance for Job Corps centers, outreach and admissions providers and career transition service providers established?
(a) The Secretary establishes expected levels of performance for Job Corps centers, outreach and admissions providers and career transition service providers and the Job Corps program relating to each of the primary indicators of performance described in §§ 686.1010, 686.1020, and 686.1030.
(b) As described in § 686.1000, the Secretary will issue annual guidance describing the national performance management system and outcomes measurement system, which will communicate the expected levels of performance for each primary indicator of performance for each center, and each indicator of performance for each outreach and admission provider, and for each career transition service provider. Such guidance also will describe how the expected levels of performance were calculated.
§ 686.1060
How are center rankings established?
(a) The Secretary calculates annual rankings of center performance based on the performance management system described in § 686.1000 as part of the annual performance assessment described in § 686.1000(c).
(b) The Secretary will issue annual guidance that communicates the methodology for calculating the performance rankings for the year.
§ 686.1070
How and when will the Secretary use performance improvement plans?
(a) The Secretary establishes standards and procedures for developing and implementing performance improvement plans.
(1) The Secretary will develop and implement a performance improvement plan for a center when that center fails to meet the expected levels of performance described in § 686.1050.
(i) The Secretary will consider a center to have failed to meet the expected level of performance if the center:
(A) Is ranked among the lowest 10 percent of Job Corps centers for the most recent preceding program year according to the rankings calculated under § 686.1060; and
(B) The center fails to achieve an average of 90 percent of the expected level of performance for all of the primary indicators.
(ii) For any program year that precedes the implementation of the establishment of the expected levels of performance under § 686.1050 and the application of the primary indicators of performance for Job Corps centers identified in § 686.1010, the Secretary will consider a center to have failed to meet the expected levels of performance if the center:
(A) Is ranked among the lowest 10 percent of Job Corps centers for the most recent preceding program year according to the rankings calculated under § 686.1060; and
(B) The center's composite OMS score for the program year is 88 percent or less of the year's OMS national average.
(2) The Secretary also may develop and implement additional performance improvement plans, which will require improvements for a Job Corps center that fails to meet criteria established by the Secretary other than the expected levels of performance.
(b) A performance improvement plan will require action be taken to correct identified performance issues within 1 year of the implementation of the plan, and it will identify criteria that must be met for the center to complete the performance improvement plan.
(1) The center operator must implement the actions outlined in the performance improvement plan.
(2) If the center fails to take the steps outlined in the performance improvement plan or fails to meet the criteria established to complete the performance improvement plan after 1 year, the center will be considered to have failed to improve performance under a performance improvement plan detailed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) Such a center will remain on a performance improvement plan and the Secretary will take action as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) If a Civilian Conservation Center fails to meet expected levels of performance relating to the primary indicators of performance specified in § 686.1010, or fails to improve performance under a performance improvement plan detailed in paragraph (a) of this section after 3 program years, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, must select an entity to operate the Civilian Conservation Center on a competitive basis, in accordance with the requirements of § 686.310.
(c) Under a performance improvement plan, the Secretary may take the following actions, as necessary:
(1) Providing technical assistance to the center;
(2) Changing the management staff of a center;
(3) Changing the career technical training offered at the center;
(4) Replacing the operator of the center;
(5) Reducing the capacity of the center;
(6) Relocating the center; or
(7) Closing the center in accordance with the criteria established under § 686.200(b).
Pt. 687

# PART 687—NATIONAL DISLOCATED WORKER GRANTS
Sec.
687.100
What are the types and purposes of National Dislocated Worker Grants under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
687.110
What are major economic dislocations or other events which may qualify for a National Dislocated Worker Grant?
687.120
Who is eligible to apply for National Dislocated Worker Grants?
687.130
When must applications for National Dislocated Worker Grants be submitted to the Department?
687.140
What activities are applicants expected to conduct before a National Dislocated Worker Grant application is submitted?
687.150
What are the requirements for submitting applications for National Dislocated Worker Grants?
687.160
What is the timeframe for the Department to issue decisions on National Dislocated Worker Grant applications?
687.170
Who is eligible to be served under National Dislocated Worker Grants?
687.180
What are the allowable activities under National Dislocated Worker Grants?
687.190
How do statutory and regulatory waivers apply to National Dislocated Worker Grants?
687.200
What are the program and administrative requirements that apply to National Dislocated Worker Grants?

# Authority:
Secs. 170, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56457, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 687.100
What are the types and purposes of National Dislocated Worker Grants under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
There are two types and purposes of National Dislocated Worker Grants (DWGs) under sec. 170 of WIOA: Employment Recovery DWGs and Disaster Recovery DWGs.
(a) Employment Recovery DWGs provide employment and training activities for dislocated workers and other eligible populations. They are intended to expand service capacity temporarily at the State and local levels, by providing time-limited funding assistance in response to major economic dislocations or other events that affect the U.S. workforce that cannot be accommodated with WIOA formula funds or other relevant existing resources.
(b) Disaster Recovery DWGs allow for the creation of disaster relief employment to assist with clean-up and recovery efforts from emergencies or major disasters and the provision of employment and training activities, in accordance with § 687.180(b).
§ 687.110
What are major economic dislocations or other events which may qualify for a National Dislocated Worker Grant?
(a) Qualifying events for Employment Recovery DWGs include:
(1) Plant closures or mass layoffs affecting 50 or more workers from one employer in the same area;
(2) Closures and realignments of military installations;
(3) Plant closures or layoffs that have significantly increased the total number of unemployed individuals in a community;
(4) Situations where higher-than-average demand for employment and training activities for dislocated members of the Armed Forces, dislocated spouses of members of the Armed Forces on active duty (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1)), or members of the Armed Forces described in § 687.170(a)(1)(iii), exceeds State and local resources for providing such activities; and
(5) Other events, as determined by the Secretary.
(b) Qualifying events for Disaster Recovery DWGs include:
(1) Emergencies or major disasters, as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively, of sec. 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(1) and (2)) which have been declared eligible for public assistance by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
(2) An emergency or disaster situation of national significance, natural or man-made, that could result in a potentially large loss of employment, as declared or otherwise recognized and issued in writing by the chief official of a Federal Agency with jurisdiction over the Federal response to the emergency or disaster situation; and
(3) Situations where a substantial number of workers from a State, tribal area, or outlying area in which an emergency or disaster has occurred relocate to another State, tribal area, or outlying area.
§ 687.120
Who is eligible to apply for National Dislocated Worker Grants?
(a) For Employment Recovery DWGs, the following entities are eligible to apply:
(1) States or outlying areas, or a consortium of States;
(2) Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs), or a consortium of WDBs;
(3) An entity described in sec. 166(c) of WIOA (relating to Indian and Native American programs);
(4) Other entities determined to be appropriate by the Governor of the State or outlying area involved; and
(5) Other entities that demonstrate to the Secretary the capability to respond effectively to circumstances relating to particular dislocations.
(b) For Disaster Recovery DWGs, the following entities are eligible to apply:
(1) States;
(2) Outlying areas; and
(3) Indian tribal governments as defined by the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(6)).
§ 687.130
When must applications for National Dislocated Worker Grants be submitted to the Department?
(a) Applications for Employment Recovery DWGs may be submitted at any time during the year and must be submitted to respond to eligible events as soon as possible when:
(1) The applicant receives a notification of a mass layoff or a closure as a result of a Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act notice, a general announcement, or some other means, or in the case of applications to address situations described in § 687.110(a)(4), when higher-than-average demand for employment and training activities for those members of the Armed Forces and military spouses exceeds State and local resources for providing such activities;
(2) Worker need and interest in services has been determined through Rapid Response, or other means, and is sufficient to justify the need for a DWG; and
(3) A determination has been made, in collaboration with the applicable local area, that State and local formula funds are inadequate to provide the level of services needed by the affected workers.
(b) Applications for Disaster Recovery DWGs to respond to an emergency or major disaster must be submitted as soon as possible when:
(1) As described in § 687.110(b)(1), FEMA has declared that the affected area is eligible for public assistance;
(2) A situation as described in § 687.110(b)(2) occurs. The applications must indicate the applicable Federal agency declaration, describe the impact on the local and/or State economy, and describe the proposed activities; or
(3) A situation as described in § 687.110(b)(3) occurs, and interest in services has been determined and is sufficient to justify the need for a DWG.
§ 687.140
What activities are applicants expected to conduct before a National Dislocated Worker Grant Application is submitted?
Prior to submitting an application for DWG funds, applicants must:
(a) For Employment Recovery DWGs:
(1) Collect information to identify the needs and interests of the affected workers through rapid response activities (described in § 682.330 of this chapter), or other means;
(2) Provide appropriate services to eligible workers including other rapid response activities, based on information gathered as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(3) Coordinate with the Local WDB and chief elected official(s) of the local area(s) in which the proposed DWG project is to operate.
(b) For Disaster DWGs:
(1) Conduct a preliminary assessment of the clean-up and humanitarian needs of the affected areas;
(2) Reasonably ascertain that there is a sufficient population of eligible individuals to conduct the planned work; and
(3) Coordinate with the Local WDB and chief elected official(s) of the local area(s) in which the proposed project is to operate.
§ 687.150
What are the requirements for submitting applications for National Dislocated Worker Grants?
The Department will publish guidance on the requirements for submitting applications for DWGs. Requirements may vary depending on the DWG. A project implementation plan must be submitted after receiving the DWG award, unless otherwise specified.
§ 687.160
What is the timeframe for the Department to issue decisions on National Dislocated Worker Grant applications?
The Department will issue a final decision on a DWG application within 45 calendar days of receipt of an application that meets the requirements of this part. Applicants are encouraged to
review their DWG application submissions carefully and consult with the appropriate Employment and Training Administration Regional Office to ensure their applications meet the requirements established in this part and those that may be set forth in guidance.
§ 687.170
Who is eligible to be served under National Dislocated Worker Grants?
(a) For Employment Recovery DWGs:
(1) In order to receive employment and training activities, an individual must be:
(i) A dislocated worker within the meaning of sec. 3(15) of WIOA;
(ii) A person who is either:
(A) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy employed at a military installation that is being closed or will undergo realignment within 24 months after the date of determination of eligibility; or
(B) An individual employed in a non-managerial position with a Department of Defense contractor determined by the Secretary of Defense to be at risk of termination from employment as a result of reductions in defense expenditures and whose employer is converting from defense to non-defense applications in order to prevent worker layoffs; or
(iii) A member of the Armed Forces who:
(A) Was on active duty or full-time National Guard duty;
(B) Is involuntarily separated from active duty or full-time National Guard duty (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1141), or is separated from active duty or full-time National Guard duty pursuant to a special separation benefits program under 10 U.S.C. 1174a, or the voluntary separation incentive program under 10 U.S.C. 1175;
(C) Is not entitled to retired or retained pay incident to the separation described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(B) of this section; and
(D) Applies for employment and training assistance under this part before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the separation described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(iv) For Employment Recovery DWGs awarded for situations described in § 687.110(a)(4), a person who is:
(A) A dislocated member of the Armed Forces or member of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section; or
(B) The dislocated spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1)).
(2) [Reserved]
(b) For Disaster Recovery DWGs:
(1) In order to be eligible to receive disaster relief employment under sec. 170(b)(1)(B)(i) of WIOA, an individual must be:
(i) A dislocated worker;
(ii) A long-term unemployed individual;
(iii) An individual who is temporarily or permanently laid off as a consequence of the emergency or disaster; or
(iv) An individual who is self-employed and becomes unemployed or significantly underemployed as a result of the emergency or disaster.
(2) In order to be eligible to receive employment and training activities and in rare instances, disaster relief employment under sec. 170(b)(1)(B)(ii) of WIOA, an individual must have relocated or evacuated from an area as a result of a disaster that has been declared or otherwise recognized, and be:
(i) A dislocated worker;
(ii) A long-term unemployed individual;
(iii) An individual who is temporarily or permanently laid off as a consequence of the emergency or disaster; or
(iv) An individual who is self-employed and becomes unemployed or significantly underemployed as a result of the emergency or disaster.
(c) For Disaster Recovery DWG funds, individuals described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are eligible to receive services provided with DWG funds in the State, tribal area, or outlying area in which the disaster occurred or the State, tribal area, or outlying area to which they have relocated. In certain cases determined by the Secretary, individuals described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are eligible to receive services in both the State, tribal area, or outlying area in
which the disaster occurred and the State, tribal area, or outlying area to which they have relocated.
§ 687.180
What are the allowable activities under National Dislocated Worker Grants?
(a) For Employment Recovery DWGs:
(1) Employment and training assistance, including those activities authorized at secs. 134(c) through (d) and 170(b)(1) of WIOA. The services to be provided in a particular project are negotiated between the Department and the grantee, taking into account the needs of the target population covered by the grant, and may be changed through grant modifications, if necessary.
(2) DWGs may provide for supportive services, including needs-related payments (subject to the restrictions in sec. 134(d)(3) of WIOA, where applicable, and the terms and conditions of the grant) to help workers who require such assistance to participate in the activities provided for in the grant. Generally, the terms of a grant must be consistent with local policies governing such financial assistance under its formula funds (including the payment levels and duration of payments). The terms of the grant agreement may diverge from established local policies, in the following instances:
(i) If unemployed dislocated workers served by the project are not able to meet the 13 or 8 weeks enrollment in training requirement established by sec. 134(d)(3)(B) of WIOA because of the lack of formula or DWG funds in the State or local area at the time of the dislocation, such individuals may be eligible for needs-related payments if they are enrolled in training by the end of the 6th week following the date of the DWG award; or
(ii) Under other circumstances as specified in guidance governing DWG application requirements.
(b) For Disaster DWGs: Funds provided under sec. 170(b)(1)(B) of WIOA can support a different array of activities, depending on the circumstances surrounding the situation for which the grant was awarded:
(1) For DWGs serving individuals in an emergency or disaster area declared eligible for public assistance by FEMA, disaster relief employment is authorized to support projects that provide food, clothing, shelter, and other humanitarian assistance for emergency and disaster victims, and projects regarding demolition, cleaning, repair, renovation, and reconstruction of damaged and destroyed structures, facilities, and lands located within the disaster area and in offshore areas related to the emergency or disaster in coordination with the Administrator of FEMA. Employment and training activities also may be provided, as appropriate. An individual's disaster relief employment is limited to 12 months or less for work related to recovery from a single emergency or disaster. The Secretary may extend an individual's disaster relief employment for up to an additional 12 months, if it is requested and sufficiently justified by an entity described in § 687.120(b).
(2) For DWGs serving individuals who have relocated from an emergency or disaster area, only employment and training activities will be authorized, except where disaster relief employment is appropriate.
(3) For DWGs awarded to States for events that have designations from Federal agencies (other than FEMA) that recognize an emergency or disaster situation as one of national significance that could result in a potentially large loss of employment, disaster relief employment and/or employment and training activities may be authorized, depending on the circumstances associated with the specific event.
(c) Disaster Recovery DWG funds may be expended through public and private agencies and organizations engaged in the activities described in this paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 687.190
How do statutory and regulatory waivers apply to National Dislocated Worker Grants?
(a) For DWGs, utilization of statutory or regulatory waivers is limited to waivers already approved by the Department under sec. 189(i) of WIOA, separate from the DWG process. WIOA
sec. 189(i) gives the Department the authority to waive provisions under subtitles A, B, and/or E of WIOA; requirements of DWGs in WIOA subtitle D cannot and will not be waived.
(b) A grant application must include a description of the approved waiver and request that the waiver be applied to the DWG. The Department will consider such requests as part of the overall DWG application review and decision process; however, applicants may not use this process to request new waivers.
(c) If during the operation of a DWG, the grantee wishes to utilize a statutory or regulatory waiver that the Department has already approved under sec. 189(i), but it was not included in the grantee's original DWG application, the grantee must submit a grant modification that describes the waiver and requests application of the waiver to the DWG. Grantees may not use this process to request new waivers.
§ 687.200
What are the program and administrative requirements that apply to National Dislocated Worker Grants?
(a) Unless otherwise authorized in a DWG agreement, the financial and administrative rules contained in part 683 of this chapter apply to awards under this part.
(b) Exceptions include:
(1) Funds provided in response to a disaster may be used for temporary job creation in areas declared eligible for public assistance by FEMA, and, in some instances, areas impacted by an emergency or disaster situation of national significance, as provided in § 687.110(b)(2), and subject to the limitations of sec. 170(d) of WIOA, this part, and any guidance issued by the Department;
(2) Per sec. 170(d)(4) of WIOA, in extremely limited instances, as determined by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee, any Disaster Recovery DWG funds that are available for expenditure under any grant awarded under this part may be used for additional disasters or situations of national significance experienced by an entity described in § 687.120(b) in the same program year the funds were awarded;
(3) DWG funds may be used to pay an appropriate level of administrative costs based on the design and complexity of the project. The Department will negotiate administrative costs with the applicant as part of the application review and grant award and modification processes. Administrative cost limits will be calculated against the amount of the grant awarded;
(4) The period of availability for expenditure of funds under a DWG is specified in the grant agreement;
(5) The Department may establish supplemental reporting, monitoring, and oversight requirements for DWGs. The requirements will be identified in the grant application instructions or the grant document; and
(6) The Department may negotiate and fund projects under terms other than those specified in this part where it can be clearly demonstrated that such adjustments will achieve a greater positive benefit for the workers and/or communities being assisted.
Pt. 688

# PART 688—PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
688.100
What is YouthBuild?
688.110
What are the purposes of the YouthBuild program?
688.120
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Funding and Grant Applications
688.200
How are YouthBuild grants funded and administered?
688.210
How does an eligible entity apply for grant funds to operate a YouthBuild program?
688.220
How are eligible entities selected to receive grant funds?
688.230
What are the minimum requirements to apply for YouthBuild funds?
688.240
How are eligible entities notified of approval for grant funds?

# Subpart C—Program Requirements
688.300
Who is an eligible participant?
688.310
Are there special rules that apply to veterans?
688.320
What eligible activities may be funded under the YouthBuild program?
688.330
What level of training qualifies a construction project as a qualifying work site under the YouthBuild program?
688.340
What timeframes apply to participation?
688.350
What timeframes must be devoted to education and workforce investment or other activities?
688.360
What timeframes apply to follow-up services?
688.370
What are the requirements for exit from the YouthBuild program?
688.380
What is the role of the YouthBuild grantee in the one-stop delivery system?

# Subpart D—Performance Indicators
688.400
What are the performance indicators for YouthBuild grants?
688.410
What are the required levels of performance for the performance indicators?
688.420
What are the reporting requirements for YouthBuild grantees?
688.430
What are the due dates for quarterly reporting?

# Subpart E—Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
688.500
What administrative regulations apply to the YouthBuild program?
688.510
How may grantees provide services under the YouthBuild program?
688.520
What cost limits apply to the use of YouthBuild program funds?
688.530
What are the cost-sharing or matching requirements of the YouthBuild program?
688.540
What are considered to be leveraged funds?
688.550
How are the costs associated with real property treated in the YouthBuild program?
688.560
What participant costs are allowable under the YouthBuild program?
688.570
Does the Department allow incentive payments in the YouthBuild program?
688.580
What effect do payments to YouthBuild participants have on eligibility for other Federal needs-based benefits?
688.590
What program income requirements apply under the YouthBuild program?
688.600
Are YouthBuild programs subject to the Davis-Bacon Act labor standards?
688.610
What are the recordkeeping requirements for YouthBuild programs?

# Subpart F—Additional Requirements
688.700
What are the safety requirements for the YouthBuild program?
688.710
What are the reporting requirements for youth safety?
688.720
What environmental protection laws apply to the YouthBuild program?
688.730
What requirements apply to YouthBuild housing?

# Authority:
Secs. 171, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56460, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 688.100
What is YouthBuild?
(a) YouthBuild is a workforce development program that provides employment, education, leadership development, and training opportunities to disadvantaged and low-income youth between the ages of 16 and 24, most of whom are secondary school drop outs and are either a member of a low-income family, a foster care youth, a youth who is homeless, an offender, a youth with a disability, a child of an incarcerated parent, or a migrant youth.
(b) Program participants receive education services that may lead to either a high school diploma or its State-recognized equivalent. Further, they receive occupational skills training and are encouraged to pursue postsecondary education or additional training, including registered apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs. The program is designed to create a skilled workforce either in the construction industry, through the rehabilitation and construction of housing for homeless and low-income individuals and families, as well as public facilities, or in other in-demand industries or occupations. The program also benefits the larger community because it provides increased access to affordable housing.
§ 688.110
What are the purposes of the YouthBuild program?
The overarching goal of the YouthBuild program is to provide disadvantaged and low-income youth the opportunity to obtain education and employment skills in local in-demand jobs to achieve economic self-sufficiency. Additionally, the YouthBuild program has as goals to:
(a) Enable disadvantaged youth to obtain the education and employment skills necessary to achieve economic self-sufficiency through employment in
in-demand occupations and pursuit of postsecondary education and training opportunities;
(b) Provide disadvantaged youth with opportunities for meaningful work and service to their communities;
(c) Foster the development of employment and leadership skills and commitment to community development among youth in low-income communities;
(d) Expand the supply of permanent affordable housing for homeless individuals and families, homeless youth, and low-income families by utilizing the talents of disadvantaged youth. The program seeks to increase the number of affordable and transitional housing units available to decrease the rate of homelessness in communities with YouthBuild programs; and
(e) Improve the quality and energy efficiency of community and other non-profit and public facilities, including those that are used to serve homeless and low-income families.
§ 688.120
What definitions apply to this part?
In addition to the definitions at sec. 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) and § 675.300 of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
Adjusted income
means, with respect to a family, the amount (as determined by the Housing Development Agency) of the income of the members of the family residing in a dwelling unit or the persons on a lease, after any income exclusions as follows:
(1)
Mandatory exclusions.
In determining adjusted income, a Housing Development Agency must exclude from the annual income of a family the following amounts:
(i)
Elderly and disabled families.
$400 for any elderly or disabled family.
(ii)
Medical expenses.
The amount by which three percent of the annual family income is exceeded by the sum of:
(A) Unreimbursed medical expenses of any elderly family or disabled family;
(B) Unreimbursed medical expenses of any family that is not covered under paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of this definition, except that this paragraph (1)(ii)(B) only applies to the extent approved in appropriation Acts; and
(C) Unreimbursed reasonable attendant care and auxiliary apparatus expenses for each handicapped member of the family, to the extent necessary to enable any member of such family (including such handicapped member) to be employed.
(iii)
Child care expenses.
Any reasonable child care expenses necessary to enable a member of the family to be employed or to further his or her education.
(iv)
Minors, students, and persons with disabilities.
$480 for each member of the family residing in the household (other than the head of the household or his or her spouse) who is less than 18 years of age or is attending school or vocational training on a full-time basis, or who is 18 years of age or older and is a person with disabilities.
(v)
Child support payments.
Any payment made by a member of the family for the support and maintenance of any child who does not reside in the household, except that the amount excluded under this clause may not exceed $480 for each child for whom such payment is made; except that this clause only applies to the extent approved in appropriations Acts.
(vi)
Spousal support expenses.
Any payment made by a member of the family for the support and maintenance of any spouse or former spouse who does not reside in the household, except that the amount excluded under this clause must not exceed the lesser of the amount that such family member has a legal obligation to pay, or $550 for each individual for whom such payment is made; except that this clause only applies to the extent approved in appropriations Acts.
(vii)
Earned income of minors.
The amount of any earned income of a member of the family who is not:
(A) 18 years of age or older; and
(B) The head of the household (or the spouse of the head of the household).
(2)
Permissive exclusions for public housing.
In determining adjusted income, a Housing Development Agency may, at the discretion of the agency, establish exclusions from the annual income of a family residing in a public
housing dwelling unit. Such exclusions may include the following amounts:
(i)
Excessive travel expenses.
Excessive travel expenses in an amount not to exceed $25 per family per week, for employment or education-related travel.
(ii)
Earned income.
An amount of any earned income of the family, established at the discretion of the Housing Development Agency, which may be based on:
(A) All earned income of the family,
(B) The amount earned by particular members of the family;
(C) The amount earned by families having certain characteristics; or
(D) The amount earned by families or members during certain periods or from certain sources.
(iii)
Others.
Such other amounts for other purposes, as the Housing Development Agency may establish.
Applicant
means an eligible entity that has submitted an application under § 688.210.
Basic skills deficient
means an individual:
(1) Who is a youth, and who has English reading, writing, or computing skills at or below the eighth grade level on a generally accepted standardized test; or
(2) Who is a youth or adult, and who is unable to compute or solve problems, or read, write, or speak English, at a level necessary to function on the job, in the individual's family, or in society.
Community or other public facility
means those facilities which are either privately owned by non-profit organizations, including faith-based and community-based organizations, and publicly used for the benefit of the community, or publicly owned and publicly used for the benefit of the community.
Construction Plus
means the inclusion of occupational skills training for YouthBuild participants in in-demand occupations other than construction.
Eligible entity
means a public or private non-profit agency or organization (including a consortium of such agencies or organizations), including:
(1) A community-based organization;
(2) A faith-based organization;
(3) An entity carrying out activities under this title, such as a Local Workforce Development Board (WDB);
(4) A community action agency;
(5) A State or local Housing Development Agency;
(6) An Indian tribe or other agency primarily serving Indians;
(7) A community development corporation;
(8) A State or local youth service or conservation corps; and
(9) Any other entity eligible to provide education or employment training under a Federal program (other than the program carried out under this section).
English language learner,
when used with respect to a participant, means an eligible individual who has limited ability in reading, writing, speaking, or comprehending the English language, and:
(1) Whose native language is a language other than English; or
(2) Who lives in a family or community environment where a language other than English is the dominant language.
Exit,
as used in § 688.400, has the same meaning as in § 677.150(c) of this chapter.
Follow-up services
include:
(1) The leadership development and supportive service activities listed in §§ 681.520 and 681.570 of this chapter;
(2) Regular contact with a youth participant's employer, including assistance in addressing work-related problems that arise;
(3) Assistance in securing better paying jobs, career development, and further education;
(4) Work-related peer support groups;
(5) Adult mentoring; and
(6) Services necessary to ensure the success of youth participants in employment and/or postsecondary education.
Homeless child or youth
means an individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence and includes a child or youth who:
(1) Is sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason;
(2) Is living in a motel, hotel, trailer park, or campground due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations;
(3) Is living in an emergency or transitional shelter, is abandoned in a hospital, or is awaiting foster care placement;
(4) Has a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings;
(5) Is living in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned buildings, substandard housing, bus or train stations, or similar settings; or
(6) Is a migratory child living in circumstances described in this definition.
Homeless individual
means an individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence and includes an individual who:
(1) Is sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or similar reason;
(2) Is living in a motel, hotel, trailer park, or campground due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations;
(3) Is living in an emergency or transitional shelter;
(4) Is abandoned in a hospital, or is awaiting foster care placement;
(5) Has a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as regular sleeping accommodation for human beings; or
(6) Is a migratory child living in circumstances described in this definition.
Housing Development Agency
means any agency of a Federal, State or local government, or any private non-profit organization, that is engaged in providing housing for homeless individuals or low-income families.
Income,
as defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2)), means income is from all sources of each member of the household, as determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, except that any amounts not actually received by the family and any amounts which would be eligible for exclusion under sec. 1382b(a)(7) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, may not be considered as income under this definition.
In-Demand Industry Sector or Occupation
means:
(1) An industry sector that has a substantial current or potential impact (including through jobs that lead to economic self-sufficiency and opportunities for advancement) on the State, regional, or local economy, as appropriate, and that contributes to the growth or stability of other supporting business, or the growth of other industry sectors; or
(2) An occupation that currently has or is projected to have a number of positions (including positions that lead to economic self-sufficiency and opportunities for advancement) in an industry sector so as to have a significant impact on the State, regional, or local economy, as appropriate.
Indian,
as defined in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b), means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe.
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Individual with a disability
means an individual with a disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).
Low-income family
means a family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area unless the Secretary determines that a higher or lower ceiling is warranted. This definition includes families consisting of one person as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3).
Migrant youth
means a youth, or a youth who is the dependent of someone who, during the previous 12 months, has:
(1) Worked at least 25 days in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment;
(2) Made at least $800 from agricultural labor that is characterized by
chronic unemployment or underemployment, if at least 50 percent of his or her income came from such agricultural labor;
(3) Was employed at least 50 percent of his or her total employment in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment; or
(4) Was employed in agricultural labor that requires travel to a jobsite such that the farmworker is unable to return to a permanent place of residence within the same day.
Needs-based payments
means additional payments beyond regular stipends for program participation that are based on defined needs that enable a youth to participate in the program.
Occupational skills training
means an organized program of study that provides specific vocational skills that lead to proficiency in performing actual tasks and technical functions required by certain occupational fields at entry, intermediate, or advanced levels. Occupational skills training includes training programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials that align with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area. Such training must:
(1) Be outcome-oriented and focused on an occupational goal specified in the individual service strategy;
(2) Be of sufficient duration to impart the skills needed to meet the occupational goal; and
(3) Result in attainment of a recognized postsecondary credential.
Offender
means an adult or juvenile who:
(1) Is or has been subject to any stage of the criminal justice process, and who may benefit from WIOA services; or
(2) Requires assistance in overcoming artificial barriers to employment resulting from a record of arrest or conviction.
Participant
means an individual who has been determined eligible to participate in the YouthBuild program, and who enrolls in the program and receives services or training described in § 688.320.
Pre-apprenticeship,
as defined in § 681.480 of this chapter, means a program designed to prepare individuals to enter and succeed in an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.
) (referred to in this part as a “registered apprenticeship” or “registered apprenticeship program”) and includes the following elements:
(1) Training and curriculum that aligns with the skill needs of employers in the economy of the State or region involved;
(2) Access to educational and career counseling and other supportive services, directly or indirectly;
(3) Hands-on, meaningful learning activities that are connected to education and training activities, such as exploring career options, and understanding how the skills acquired through coursework can be applied toward a future career;
(4) Opportunities to attain at least one industry-recognized credential; and
(5) A partnership with one or more registered apprenticeship programs that assists in placing individuals who complete the pre-apprenticeship program in a registered apprenticeship program.
(6) YouthBuild programs that receive funding under this part are considered pre-apprenticeship programs under this definition.
Recognized postsecondary credential
means a credential consisting of an industry-recognized certificate or certification, a certificate of completion of a registered apprenticeship, a license recognized by the State involved or Federal government, or an associate or baccalaureate degree.
Registered apprenticeship program
means an apprenticeship program that:
(1) Is registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act” (50 Stat. 664; 20 U.S.C. 50
et seq.
)); and
(2) Meets such other criteria as the Secretary may establish.
School dropout
means an individual who no longer attends any school and who has not received a secondary school diploma or its State-recognized equivalent.
Secondary school
means a nonprofit institutional day or residential school, including a public secondary charter
school, that provides secondary education, as determined under State law, except that the term does not include any education beyond grade 12.
Section 3
means a program described in sec. 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992.
Supportive services
for youth, as defined in § 681.570 of this chapter, are services that enable an individual to participate in WIOA activities. These services include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Linkages to community services;
(2) Assistance with transportation;
(3) Assistance with child care and dependent care;
(4) Referrals to child support;
(5) Assistance with housing;
(6) Needs-related payments;
(7) Assistance with educational testing;
(8) Reasonable accommodations for youth with disabilities;
(9) Referrals to health care;
(10) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eyeglasses and protective eye gear;
(11) Assistance with books, fees, school supplies, and other necessary items for students enrolled in postsecondary education classes; and
(12) Payments and fees for employment and training-related applications, tests, and certifications.
Transitional housing
means housing provided to ease the movement of individuals and families experiencing homelessness to permanent housing within 24 months or such longer period.
YouthBuild program
means any program that receives assistance under this part and provides disadvantaged youth with opportunities for employment, education, leadership development, service to the community, and training through the rehabilitation (which, for purposes of this part, includes energy efficiency enhancements) or construction of housing for homeless individuals and low-income families, and public facilities.
Youth in foster care,
as defined in § 681.210 of this chapter, means an individual in foster care or who has aged out of the foster care system or who has attained 16 years of age and left foster care for kinship, guardianship, or adoption; or a child eligible for assistance under sec. 477 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 677), or in an out-of-home placement.

# Subpart B—Funding and Grant Applications
§ 688.200
How are YouthBuild grants funded and administered?
The Secretary uses funds authorized for appropriation under WIOA sec. 171(i) to administer YouthBuild as a national program under title I, subtitle D of WIOA. YouthBuild grants are awarded to eligible entities, as defined in § 688.120, through the competitive selection process described in § 688.210.
§ 688.210
How does an eligible entity apply for grant funds to operate a YouthBuild program?
The Secretary announces the availability of grant funds through a Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA). The FOA contains instructions for what the Department requires in the grant application, describes eligibility requirements, the rating criteria that the Department will use in reviewing grant applications, and special reporting requirements to operate a YouthBuild project. The FOA, along with the requisite forms needed to apply for grant funds, can be found at
http://www.doleta.gov/grants/find_grants.cfm
.
§ 688.220
How are eligible entities selected to receive grant funds?
In order to receive funds under the YouthBuild program, an eligible entity must meet selection criteria established by the Secretary which include:
(a) The qualifications or potential capabilities of an applicant;
(b) An applicant's potential to develop a successful YouthBuild program;
(c) The need for an applicant's proposed program, as determined by the degree of economic distress of the community from which participants would be recruited (measured by indicators such as poverty, youth unemployment, and the number of individuals who have dropped out of secondary school)
and of the community in which the housing and community and public facilities proposed to be rehabilitated or constructed are located (measured by indicators such as incidence of homelessness, shortage of affordable housing, and poverty);
(d) The commitment of an applicant to provide skills training, leadership development, counseling and case management, and education to participants;
(e) The focus of a proposed program on preparing youth for local in-demand sectors or occupations, or postsecondary education and training opportunities;
(f) The extent of an applicant's coordination of activities to be carried out through the proposed program with:
(1) Local WDBs, one-stop center operators, and one-stop partners participating in the operation of the one-stop delivery system involved, or the extent of the applicant's good faith efforts, as determined by the Secretary, in achieving such coordination;
(2) Public education, criminal justice, housing and community development, national service, or postsecondary education or other systems that relate to the goals of the proposed program; and
(3) Employers in the local area;
(g) The extent to which a proposed program provides for inclusion of tenants who were previously homeless individuals or families in the rental of housing provided through the program;
(h) The commitment of additional resources to the proposed program (in addition to the funds made available through the grant) by:
(1) An applicant;
(2) Recipients of other Federal, State, or local housing and community development assistance who will sponsor any part of the rehabilitation, construction, operation and maintenance, or other housing and community development activities undertaken as part of the proposed program; or
(3) Entities carrying out other Federal, State, or local activities or activities conducted by Indian tribes, including vocational education programs, adult and language instruction educational programs, and job training using funds provided under WIOA;
(i) An applicant's ability to enter partnerships with:
(1) Education and training providers including:
(i) The kindergarten through twelfth grade educational system;
(ii) Adult education programs;
(iii) Community and technical colleges;
(iv) Four-year colleges and universities;
(v) Registered apprenticeship programs; and
(vi) Other training entities;
(2) Employers, including professional organizations and associations. An applicant will be evaluated on the extent to which employers participate in:
(i) Defining the program strategy and goals;
(ii) Identifying needed skills and competencies;
(iii) Designing training approaches and curricula;
(iv) Contributing financial support; and
(v) Hiring qualified YouthBuild graduates;
(3) The workforce development system which may include:
(i) State and Local WDBs;
(ii) State workforce agencies; and
(iii) One-stop centers and their partner programs;
(4) The juvenile and adult justice systems, and the extent to which they provide:
(i) Support and guidance for YouthBuild participants with court involvement;
(ii) Assistance in the reporting of recidivism rates among YouthBuild participants; and
(iii) Referrals of eligible participants through diversion or reentry from incarceration;
(5) Faith-based and community organizations, and the extent to which they provide a variety of grant services such as:
(i) Case management;
(ii) Mentoring;
(iii) English as a Second Language courses; and
(iv) Other comprehensive supportive services, when appropriate;
(j) The applicant's potential to serve different regions, including rural areas and States that may not have previously received grants for YouthBuild programs; and
(k) Such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate for purposes of evaluating an applicant's potential to carry out the proposed program in an effective and efficient manner.
(l) The weight to be given to these factors will be described in a FOA issued under § 688.210.
§ 688.230
What are the minimum requirements to apply for YouthBuild funds?
At minimum, applications for YouthBuild funds must include the following elements:
(a) Labor market information for the relevant labor market area, including both current data (as of the date of submission of the application) and projections on career opportunities in construction and in-demand industry sectors or occupations;
(b) A request for the grant, specifying the amount of the grant requested and its proposed uses;
(c) A description of the applicant and a statement of its qualifications, including a description of the applicant's relationship with Local WDBs, one-stop operators, employers, local unions, entities carrying out registered apprenticeship programs, other community groups, and the applicant's past experience with rehabilitation or construction of housing or public facilities (including experience with programs through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under sec. 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u)), and with youth education and employment training programs);
(d) A description of the proposed site for the proposed program;
(e) A description of the educational and job training activities, work opportunities, postsecondary education and training opportunities, and other services that will be provided to participants, and how those activities, opportunities, and services will prepare youth for employment in in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the labor market area described in paragraph (a) of this section;
(1) A description of the proposed activities to be undertaken under the grant related to rehabilitation or construction, and, in the case of an applicant requesting approval from the Secretary to carry out additional activities related to in-demand industry sectors or occupations, a description of such additional activities.
(2) The anticipated schedule for carrying out all activities proposed under paragraph (f) of this section;
(f) A description of the manner in which eligible youth will be recruited and selected as participants, including a description of arrangements that will be made with Local WDBs, one-stop operators, faith and community-based organizations, State education agencies or local education agencies (including agencies of Indian tribes), public assistance agencies, the courts of jurisdictions, agencies that serve youth who are homeless individuals (including those that operate shelters), foster care agencies, and other appropriate public and private agencies;
(g) A description of the special outreach efforts that will be undertaken to recruit eligible young women (including young women with dependent children) as participants;
(h) A description of the specific role of employers in the proposed program, such as their role in developing the proposed program and assisting in service provision and placement activities;
(i) A description of how the proposed program will be coordinated with other Federal, State, and local activities conducted by Indian tribes, such as workforce investment activities, career and technical education and training programs, adult and language instruction educational programs, activities conducted by public schools, activities conducted by community colleges, national service programs, and other job training provided with funds available under WIOA, in particular how programs will coordinate with local Workforce Development funds outlined in WIOA sec. 129(c)(2);
(j) Assurances that there will be a sufficient number of adequately trained supervisory personnel in the proposed program;
(k) A description of the level of performance to be achieved with respect to primary indicators of performance for eligible youth as described in § 688.410;
(l) The organization's past performance under a grant issued by the Secretary to operate a YouthBuild program;
(m) A description of the applicant's relationship with local building trade unions regarding their involvement in training to be provided through the proposed program, the relationship of the proposed program to established registered apprenticeship programs and employers, the ability of the applicant to grant an industry-recognized certificate or certification through the program, and the quality of the program leading to the certificate or certification;
(n) A description of activities that will be undertaken to develop leadership skills of participants;
(o) A detailed budget and description of the system of fiscal controls, and auditing and accounting procedures, that will be used to ensure fiscal soundness for the proposed program;
(p) A description of the commitments for any additional resources (in addition to funds made available through the grant) to be made available to the proposed program from:
(1) The applicant;
(2) Recipients of other Federal, State, or local housing and community development assistance that will sponsor any part of the rehabilitation or construction, operation or maintenance, or other housing and community development activities undertaken as part of the proposed program; or
(3) Entities carrying out other Federal, State or local activities conducted by Indian tribes, including career and technical education and training programs, and job training provided with funds under WIOA;
(q) Information identifying and describing of, the financing proposed for any:
(1) Rehabilitation of the property involved;
(2) Acquisition of the property; or
(3) Construction of the property;
(r) Information identifying and describing of, the entity that will manage and operate the property;
(s) Information identifying and describing of, the data collection systems to be used;
(t) A certification, by a public official responsible for the housing strategy for the State or unit of general local government within which the proposed program is located, that the proposed program is consistent with the housing strategy;
(u) A certification that the applicant will comply with requirements of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
) and will affirmatively further fair housing; and
(v) Any additional requirements that the Secretary determines are appropriate.
§ 688.240
How are eligible entities notified of approval for grant funds?
The Secretary will, to the extent practicable, notify each eligible entity applying for funds no later than 5 months from the date the application is received, whether the application is approved or disapproved. In the event additional funds become available, the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) reserves the right to use such funds to select additional grantees from applications submitted in response to a FOA.

# Subpart C—Program Requirements
§ 688.300
Who is an eligible participant?
(a)
Eligibility criteria.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual is eligible to participate in a YouthBuild program if the individual is:
(1) Not less than age 16 and not more than age 24 on the date of enrollment;
(2) A school dropout or an individual who has dropped out of school and has subsequently reenrolled; and
(3) Is one or more of the following:
(i) A member of a low-income family;
(ii) A youth in foster care;
(iii) An offender;
(iv) A youth who is an individual with a disability;
(v) The child of a current or formerly incarcerated parent; or
(vi) A migrant youth.
(b)
Exceptions.
Not more than 25 percent of the participants in a program, under this section, may be individuals who do not meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, if such individuals:
(1) Are basic skills deficient, as defined in § 688.120, despite attainment of a secondary school diploma or its recognized State equivalent (including recognized certificates of attendance or similar documents for individuals with disabilities); or
(2) Have been referred by a local secondary school for participation in a YouthBuild program leading to the attainment of a secondary school diploma if such referral is to a YouthBuild program offering a secondary school diploma.
§ 688.310
Are there special rules that apply to veterans?
Special rules for determining income for veterans are found in § 683.230 of this chapter and for the priority of service provisions for qualified persons are found in 20 CFR part 1010. Those special rules apply to covered persons who are eligible to participate in the YouthBuild program.
§ 688.320
What eligible activities may be funded under the YouthBuild program?
Grantees may provide one or more of the following education and workforce investment and other activities to YouthBuild participants:
(a) Eligible education and workforce activities including:
(1) Work experience and skills training (coordinated, to the maximum extent feasible, with registered apprenticeship programs), including:
(i) Supervision and training for participants in the rehabilitation or construction of housing, including residential housing for homeless individuals or low-income families, or transitional housing for homeless individuals and in additional in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the region in which the program operates (as approved by the Secretary);
(ii) Supervision and training for participants in the rehabilitation or construction of community and other public facilities, except that not more than 15 percent of grant funds-appropriated to carry out this section may be used for this activity; and
(iii) Supervision and training for participants in in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the region in which the program operates, if such activity is approved by the Secretary;
(2) Occupational skills training;
(3) Other paid and unpaid work experiences, including internships and job shadowing;
(4) Services and activities designed to meet the educational needs of participants, including:
(i) Basic skills instruction and remedial education;
(ii) Language instruction educational programs for participants who are English language learners;
(iii) Secondary education services and activities, including tutoring, study skills training, and school dropout prevention and recovery activities, designed to lead to the attainment of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (including recognized certificates of attendance or similar documents for individuals with disabilities);
(iv) Counseling and assistance in obtaining postsecondary education and required financial aid; and
(v) Alternative secondary school services;
(5) Counseling services and related activities, such as comprehensive guidance and counseling on drug and alcohol abuse, referrals to mental health services, and referrals to victim services;
(6) Activities designed to develop employment and leadership skills, which may include community service and peer-centered activities encouraging responsibility, interpersonal skills, and other positive social behaviors, and activities related to youth policy committees that participate in decision-making related to the program;
(7)(i) Supportive services and needs-based payments necessary to enable individuals to participate in the program and to assist individuals, for a period of time not to exceed 12 months after the
completion of training, in obtaining or retaining employment or applying for and transitioning to postsecondary education or training;
(ii) To provide needs-based payments, a grantee must have a written policy which:
(A) Establishes participant eligibility for such payments;
(B) Establishes the amounts to be provided;
(C) Describes the required documentation and criteria for payments; and
(D) Applies consistently to all program participants; and
(8) Job search and assistance;
(b) Payment of the administrative costs of the applicant, including recruitment and selection of participants, except that not more than 10 percent of the amount awarded under § 688.210 may be used for such costs;
(c) Adult mentoring;
(d) Provision of wages, stipends, or benefits to participants in the program;
(e) Ongoing training and technical assistance that is related to developing and carrying out the program; and
(f) Follow-up services.
§ 688.330
What level of training qualifies a construction project as a qualifying work site under the YouthBuild program?
At a minimum, in order to qualify as a work site for the purposes of the YouthBuild program, a work site must:
(a) Provide participants with the opportunity to have hands-on training and experience in two or more modules, each within a different skill area, in a construction skills training program that offers an industry-recognized credential;
(b) Be built or renovated for low-income individuals or families;
(c) Have a restrictive covenant in place that only allows for rental or resale to low-income participants as required by § 688.730; and
(d) Adhere to the allowable construction and other capital asset costs applicable to the YouthBuild program.
§ 688.340
What timeframes apply to participation?
An eligible individual selected for participation in the program must be offered full-time participation in the program for not less than 6 months and not more than 24 months.
§ 688.350
What timeframes must be devoted to education and workforce investment or other activities?
YouthBuild grantees must structure programs so that participants in the program are offered:
(a) Education and related services and activities designed to meet educational needs, such as those specified in § 688.320(a)(4) through (7), during at least 50 percent of the time during which they participate in the program; and
(b) Workforce and skills development activities, such as those specified in § 688.320(a)(1) through (3), during at least 40 percent of the time during which they participate in the program.
(c) The remaining 10 percent of the time of participation may be used for the activities described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and/or for leadership development and community service activities.
§ 688.360
What timeframes apply to follow-up services?
Grantees must provide follow-up services to all YouthBuild participants for a period of 12 months after a participant successfully exits a YouthBuild program.
§ 688.370
What are the requirements for exit from the YouthBuild program?
At a minimum, to be a successful exit, the Department of Labor requires that:
(a) Participants receive hands-on construction training or hands-on training in another industry or occupation, in the case of Construction Plus grantees; and
(b) Participants meet the exit policies established by the grantee.
(1) Such policies must describe the program outcomes and/or individual goals that must be met by each participant in order to successfully complete the program; and
(2) Grantees must apply the policies consistently to determine when a successful exit has occurred.
§ 688.380
What is the role of the YouthBuild grantee in the one-stop delivery system?
In those local areas where the grantee operates its YouthBuild program, the grantee is a required partner of the local one-stop delivery system and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in part 678 of this chapter.

# Subpart D—Performance Indicators
§ 688.400
What are the performance indicators for YouthBuild grants?
The performance indicators for YouthBuild grants include:
(a) The percentage of program participants who are in education and training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(b) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(c) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(d) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential or secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (and for those achieving the secondary diploma or its recognized equivalent, such participants also have obtained or retained employment or are in an education or training program leading to a recognized postsecondary credential within 1 year after exit from the program);
(e) The percentage of program participants who, during a program year, are in an education and training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains toward such a credential or employment;
(f) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit; and
(g) Other indicators of performance as may be required by the Secretary.
[81 FR 56460, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13614, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 688.410
What are the required levels of performance for the performance indicators?
(a) The Secretary must annually establish expected levels of performance for YouthBuild programs relating to each of the primary indicators of performance. The expected levels of performance for each of the performance indicators are national standards that are provided in separately issued guidance. Short-term or other performance indicators will be provided in separately issued guidance or as part of the FOA or grant agreement. Performance level expectations will be based on available YouthBuild data and data from similar WIOA youth programs and may change from one grant competition to another. The expected national levels of performance will take into account the extent to which the levels promote continuous improvement in performance.
(b) The levels of performance established will at a minimum:
(1) Be expressed in an objective, quantifiable, and measurable form; and
(2) Indicate continuous improvement in performance.
§ 688.420
What are the reporting requirements for YouthBuild grantees?
Each grantee must provide such reports as are required by the Secretary in separately issued guidance, including:
(a) The quarterly performance report;
(b) The quarterly narrative progress report;
(c) The financial report; and
(d) Such other reports as may be required by the grant agreement.
§ 688.430
What are the due dates for quarterly reporting?
(a) Quarterly reports are due no later than 45 days after the end of the reporting quarter, unless otherwise specified in the reporting guidance issued under § 688.420; and
(b) A final financial report is required 90 days after the expiration of a
funding period or the termination of grant support.

# Subpart E—Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
§ 688.500
What administrative regulations apply to the YouthBuild program?
Each YouthBuild grantee must comply with the following:
(a) The regulations found in this part;
(b) The general administrative requirements found in part 683 of this chapter, except those that apply only to the WIOA title I, subtitle B program and those that have been modified by this section;
(c) The Department's regulations on government-wide requirements, which include:
(1) The regulations codifying the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) government-wide grants requirements at 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900, as applicable;
(2) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 38, which implement the nondiscrimination provisions of WIOA sec. 188;
(3) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR parts 93, 94, and 98 relating to restrictions on lobbying, drug free workplace, and debarment and suspension; and
(4) The audit requirements of the Office of Management and Budget at 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900, as applicable; and
(d) Relevant State and local educational standards.
§ 688.510
How may grantees provide services under the YouthBuild program?
Each recipient of a grant under the YouthBuild program may provide the services and activities described in these regulations either directly or through subgrants, contracts, or other arrangements with local educational agencies, postsecondary educational institutions, State or local housing development agencies, other public agencies, including agencies of Indian tribes, or private organizations.
§ 688.520
What cost limits apply to the use of YouthBuild program funds?
(a) Administrative costs for programs operated under YouthBuild are limited to 10 percent of the grant award. The definition of administrative costs can be found in § 683.215 of this chapter.
(b) The cost of supervision and training for participants involved in the rehabilitation or construction of community and other public facilities is limited to no more than 15 percent of the grant award.
§ 688.530
What are the cost-sharing or matching requirements of the YouthBuild program?
(a) In addition to the rules described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, the cost-sharing or matching requirements applicable to a YouthBuild grant will be addressed in the grant agreement.
(b) The value of construction materials used in the YouthBuild program is an allowable cost for the purposes of the required non-Federal share or match.
(c) The value of land acquired for the YouthBuild program is not an allowable cost-sharing or match.
(d) Federal funds may not be used as cost-sharing or match resources except as provided by Federal law.
(e) The value of buildings acquired for the YouthBuild program is an allowable match, provided that the following conditions apply:
(1) The purchase cost of buildings used solely for training purposes is allowable; and
(2) For buildings used for training and other purposes, the allowable amount is determined based on the proportionate share of the purchase price related to direct training activities.
(f) Grantees must follow the requirements of Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900 in the accounting, valuation, and reporting of the required non-Federal share.
§ 688.540
What are considered to be leveraged funds?
(a) Leveraged funds may be used to support allowable YouthBuild program activities and consist of payments made for allowable costs funded by
both non-YouthBuild Federal, and non-Federal, resources which include:
(1) Costs which meet the criteria for cost-sharing or match in § 688.530 and are in excess of the amount of cost-sharing or match resources required;
(2) Costs which would meet the criteria in § 688.530 except that they are paid for with other Federal resources; and
(3) Costs which benefit the grant program and are otherwise allowable under the cost principles but are not allowable under the grant because of some statutory, regulatory, or grant provision, whether paid for with Federal or non-Federal resources.
(b) The use of leveraged funds must be reported in accordance with Departmental instructions.
§ 688.550
How are the costs associated with real property treated in the YouthBuild program?
(a) As provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the costs of the following activities associated with real property are allowable solely for the purpose of training YouthBuild participants:
(1) Rehabilitation of existing structures for use by homeless individuals and families or low-income families or for use as transitional housing;
(2) Construction of buildings for use by homeless individuals and families or low-income families or for use as transitional housing; and
(3) Construction or rehabilitation of community or other public facilities, except, as provided in § 688.520(b), only 15 percent of the grant award is allowable for such construction and rehabilitation.
(b) The costs for acquisition of buildings that are used for activities described in paragraph (a) of this section are allowable with prior grant officer approval and only under the following conditions:
(1) The purchase cost of buildings used solely for training purposes is allowable; and
(2) For buildings used for training and other purposes, the allowable amount is determined based on the proportionate share of the purchase cost related to direct training.
(c) The following costs are allowable to the extent allocable to training YouthBuild participants in the construction and rehabilitation activities specified in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Trainees' tools and clothing including personal protective equipment (PPE);
(2) On-site trainee supervisors;
(3) Construction management;
(4) Relocation of buildings; and
(5) Clearance and demolition.
(d) Architectural fees, or a proportionate share thereof, are allowable when such fees can be related to items such as architectural plans or blueprints on which participants will be trained.
(e) The following costs are unallowable:
(1) The costs of acquisition of land; and
(2) Brokerage fees.
§ 688.560
What participant costs are allowable under the YouthBuild program?
Allowable participant costs include:
(a) The costs of payments to participants engaged in eligible work-related YouthBuild activities;
(b) The costs of payments provided to participants engaged in non-work-related YouthBuild activities;
(c) The costs of needs-based payments;
(d) The costs of supportive services; and
(e) The costs of providing additional benefits to participants or individuals who have exited the program and are receiving follow-up services, which may include:
(1) Tuition assistance for obtaining college education credits;
(2) Scholarships to a registered apprenticeship or technical education program; and
(3) Employer- or Government-sponsored health programs.
§ 688.570
Does the Department allow incentive payments in the YouthBuild program?
(a) Grantees are permitted to provide incentive payments to youth participants for recognition and achievement directly tied to training activities and work experiences. Grantees must tie
the incentive payments to the goals of the specific grant program and outline such goals in writing prior to starting the program that makes incentive payments.
(b) Prior to providing incentive payments, the organization must have written policies and procedures in place governing the awarding of incentives, and the incentives provided under the grant must align with these organizational policies.
(c) All incentive payments must comply with the requirements in Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200.
§ 688.580
What effect do payments to YouthBuild participants have on eligibility for other Federal needs-based benefits?
Under § 683.275(d) of this chapter, the Department does not consider allowances, earnings, and payments to individuals participating in programs under title I of WIOA as income for purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of income transfer and in-kind aid furnished under any Federal or Federally-assisted program based on need other than as provided under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301).
§ 688.590
What program income requirements apply under the YouthBuild program?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, program income requirements, as specified in the applicable Uniform Administrative Requirements at 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900, apply to YouthBuild grants.
(b) Revenue from the sale of buildings rehabilitated or constructed under the YouthBuild program to homeless individuals and families and low-income families is not considered program income. Grantees are encouraged to use that revenue for the long-term sustainability of the YouthBuild program.
§ 688.600
Are YouthBuild programs subject to the Davis-Bacon Act labor standards?
(a) YouthBuild programs and grantees are subject to Davis-Bacon labor standards requirements under the circumstances set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. In those instances where a grantee is subject to Davis-Bacon requirements, the grantee must follow applicable requirements in the Department's regulations at 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5, including the requirements contained in the Davis-Bacon contract provisions set forth in 29 CFR 5.5.
(b) YouthBuild participants are subject to Davis-Bacon Act labor standards when they perform Davis-Bacon-covered laborer or mechanic work, defined at 29 CFR 5.2(m), on Federal or Federally-assisted projects that are subject to the Davis-Bacon Act labor standards. The Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements apply to hours worked on the site of the work.
(c) YouthBuild participants who are not registered and participating in a training program approved by the ETA must be paid not less than the applicable wage rate on the wage determination for the classification of work actually performed.
§ 688.610
What are the recordkeeping requirements for YouthBuild programs?
(a) Grantees must follow the recordkeeping requirements specified in the Uniform Administrative Requirements, at 29 CFR 95.53 and 97.42, as appropriate.
(b) Grantees must maintain such additional records related to the use of buildings constructed or rehabilitated with YouthBuild funds as specified in the grant agreement or in the Department's guidance.

# Subpart F—Additional Requirements
§ 688.700
What are the safety requirements for the YouthBuild program?
(a) YouthBuild Grantees must comply with § 683.280 of this chapter, which applies Federal and State health and safety standards to the working conditions under WIOA-funded projects and programs. These health and safety standards include “hazardous orders” governing child labor at 29 CFR part 570.
(b) YouthBuild grantees are required to:
(1) Provide comprehensive safety training for youth working on YouthBuild construction projects;
(2) Have written, jobsite-specific safety plans overseen by an on-site supervisor with authority to enforce safety procedures;
(3) Provide necessary personal protective equipment to youth working on YouthBuild projects; and
(4) Submit required injury incident reports.
§ 688.710
What are the reporting requirements for youth safety?
YouthBuild grantees must ensure that YouthBuild program sites comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) reporting requirements in 29 CFR part 1904. A YouthBuild grantee is responsible for sending a copy of OSHA's injury incident report form to the ETA within 7 days of any reportable injury suffered by a YouthBuild participant. The injury incident report form is available from OSHA and can be downloaded at
http://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping/RKforms.html
. Reportable injuries include those that result in death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness.
§ 688.720
What environmental protection laws apply to the YouthBuild program?
YouthBuild program grantees are required, where applicable, to comply with all environmental protection statutes and regulations.
§ 688.730
What requirements apply to YouthBuild housing?
(a) YouthBuild grantees must ensure that all residential housing units which are constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds must be available solely for:
(1) Sale to homeless individuals and families or low-income families;
(2) Rental by homeless individuals and families or low-income families;
(3) Use as transitional or permanent housing for the purpose of assisting in the movement of homeless individuals and families to independent living. In the case of transitional housing, the unit(s) must be occupied no more than 24 months by the same individual(s); or
(4) Rehabilitation of homes for low-income homeowners.
(b) For rentals of residential units located on the property which are constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds:
(1) The property must maintain at least a 90 percent level of occupancy for low-income families. The income test will be conducted only at the time of entry for each available unit or rehabilitation of occupant-owned home. If the grantee cannot find a qualifying tenant to lease the unit, the unit may be leased to a family whose income is above the income threshold to qualify as a low-income family but below the median income for the area. Leases for tenants with higher incomes will be limited to not more than 2 years. The leases provided to tenants with higher incomes are not subject to the termination clause that is described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) The property owner must not terminate the tenancy or refuse to renew the lease of a tenant occupying a residential rental housing unit constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds except for serious or repeated violations of the terms and conditions of the lease, for violation of applicable Federal, State, or local laws, or for good cause. Any termination or refusal to renew the lease must be preceded by not less than a 30-day written notice to the tenant specifying the grounds for the action. The property owner may waive the written notice requirement for termination in dangerous or egregious situations involving the tenant.
(c) All transitional or permanent housing for homeless individuals or families or low-income families must be safe and sanitary. The housing must meet all applicable State and local housing codes and licensing requirements in the jurisdiction in which the housing is located.
(d) For sales or rentals of residential housing units constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds, YouthBuild grantees must ensure that owners of the property record a restrictive covenant at the time that an occupancy permit is issued against such
property which includes the use restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and incorporates the following definitions at § 688.120: Homeless individual, Low-income family, and Transitional housing. The term of the restrictive covenant must be at least 5 years from the time of the issuance of the occupancy permit, unless a time period of more than 5 years has been established by the grantee. The Department advises that any additional stipulations imposed by a grantee or property owner be clearly stated in the covenant.
(e) Any conveyance document prepared in the 5-year period of the restrictive covenant must inform the buyer of the property that all residential housing units constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds are subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
PARTS 689-699 [RESERVED]
20 CFR Ch. VI (4-1-25 Edition)
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Labor

# CHAPTER VI—OFFICE OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

# SUBCHAPTER A—LONGSHOREMEN'S AND HARBOR WORKERS' COMPENSATION ACT AND RELATED STATUTES
Part
Page
700
[Reserved]
701
General; administering agency; definitions and use of terms
405
702
Administration and procedure
410
703
Insurance regulations
463
704
Special provisions for LHWCA extensions
478

# SUBCHAPTER B—FEDERAL COAL MINE HEALTH AND SAFETY ACT OF 1969, AS AMENDED
718
Standards for determining coal miners' total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis
482
722
Criteria for determining whether State workers' compensation laws provide adequate coverage for pneumoconiosis and listing of approved State laws
512
725
Claims for benefits under Part C of Title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, as amended
513
726
Black lung benefits; requirements for coal mine operator's insurance
594
727-799
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—LONGSHOREMEN'S AND HARBOR WORKERS' COMPENSATION ACT AND RELATED STATUTES
PART 700 [RESERVED]
Pt. 701

# PART 701—GENERAL; ADMINISTERING AGENCY; DEFINITIONS AND USE OF TERMS

# Rules in this Subchapter
Sec.
701.101
Scope of this subchapter and subchapter B.
701.102
Organization of this subchapter.

# Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs
701.201
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs.
701.202-702.203
[Reserved]

# Definitions and Use of Terms
701.301
What do certain terms in this subchapter mean?
701.302
Who is an employee?

# Coverage Under State Compensation Programs
701.401
Coverage under State compensation programs.

# Special Rules for the Recreational Vessel Exclusion From the Definition of “Employee”
701.501
What is a recreational vessel?
701.502
What types of work may exclude a recreational-vessel worker from the definition of “employee”?
701.503
Did the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 amend the recreational vessel exclusion?
701.504
When does the recreational vessel exclusion in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 apply?
701.505
May an employer stop paying benefits awarded before February 17, 2009 if the employee would now fall within the exclusion?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 8171
et seq.;
33 U.S.C. 939; 36 D.C. Code 501
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
43 U.S.C. 1333; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 1004, 64 Stat. 1263; Secretary's Order 10-2009, 74 FR 58834.

# Source:
38 FR 26860, Sept. 26, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Rules in This Subchapter
§ 701.101
Scope of this subchapter and subchapter B.
(a) This subchapter contains the regulations governing the administration of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as amended (LHWCA), 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
except activities, pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 941, assigned to the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health. It also contains the regulations governing the administration of the direct extensions of the LHWCA: the Defense Base Act (DBA), 42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), 43 U.S.C. 1331; and the Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act (NFIA), 5 U.S.C. 8171
et seq.
(b) The regulations in this subchapter also apply to claims filed under the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act (DCCA), 36 D.C. Code 501
et seq.
That law applies to all claims for injuries or deaths based on employment events that occurred prior to July 26, 1982, the effective date of the District of Columbia Workers' Compensation Act, as amended (D.C. Code 32-1501
et seq.
).
(c) The regulations governing the administration of the Black Lung Benefits Program are in subchapter B of this chapter.
[70 FR 43232, July 26, 2005]
§ 701.102
Organization of this subchapter.
Part 701 provides a general description of the regulations in this subchapter; sets forth information regarding the persons and agencies within the Department of Labor authorized by the Secretary of Labor to administer the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, its extensions and the regulations in this subchapter; and defines and clarifies use of specific terms in the several parts of this subchapter. Part 702 of this subchapter contains the general administrative regulations governing claims filed under the LHWCA. Part 703 of this subchapter
contains the regulations governing insurance carrier authorizations, insurance carrier security deposits, self-insurer authorizations, and certificates of compliance with the insurance regulations, as required by sections 32 and 37 of the LHWCA (33 U.S.C. 932, 937). Because the extensions of the LHWCA (
see
§ 701.101) incorporate by reference nearly all the provisions of the LHWCA, the regulations in parts 701, 702 and 703 also apply to the administration of the extensions (DBA, DCCA, OCSLA, and NFIA), unless otherwise noted. Part 704 of this subchapter contains the exceptions to the general applicability of parts 702 and 703 for the DBA, the DCCA, the OCSLA, and the NFIA.
[70 FR 43232, July 26, 2005]

# Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
§ 701.201
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs.
The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs is responsible for administering the LHWCA and its extensions.
[75 FR 63380, Oct. 15, 2010]
§§ 701.202-701.203
[Reserved]

# Definitions and Use of Terms
§ 701.301
What do certain terms in this subchapter mean?
(a) As used in this subchapter, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise:
(1)
Act
or
LHWCA
means the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
), and includes the provisions of any statutory extension of such Act (
see
§ 701.101(a) and (b)) pursuant to which compensation on account of an injury is sought.
(2)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor, or his authorized representative.
(3)-(4) [Reserved]
(5)
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
or
OWCP
or
the Office
means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, referred to in § 701.201. The term
Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs
shall have the same meaning as
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
(
see
20 CFR 1.6(b)).
(6)
Director
means the Director of OWCP, or his or her authorized representative.
(7)
District Director
means a person appointed as provided in sections 39 and 40 of the LHWCA or his or her designee, authorized to perform functions with respect to the processing and determination of claims for compensation under the LHWCA and its extensions as provided therein and under this subchapter. The term District Director is substituted for the term
Deputy Commissioner
used in the statute. This substitution is for administrative purposes only and in no way affects the power or authority of the position as established in the statute.
(8)
Administrative Law Judge
means a person appointed as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3105 and subpart B of 5 CFR part 930, who is qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 557 and is empowered by the Secretary to conduct formal hearings whenever necessary in respect of any claim for compensation arising under the LHWCA and its extensions.
(9)
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Judge of the Office of Administrative Law Judges, United States Department of Labor, whose office is at the location set forth in 29 CFR 18.3(a).
(10)
Board or Benefits Review Board
means the Benefits Review Board established by section 21 of the LHWCA (33 U.S.C. 921) as amended and constituted and functioning pursuant to the provisions of chapter VII of this title and Secretary of Labor's Order No. 38-72 (38 FR 90), whose office is at the location set forth in 20 CFR 802.204.
(11)
Department
means the United States Department of Labor.
(12)
Employer
includes any employer who may be obligated as an employer under the provisions of the LHWCA as amended or any of its extensions to pay and secure compensation as provided therein.
(13)
Carrier
means an insurance carrier or self-insurer meeting the requirements of section 32 of the LHWCA as amended and of this subchapter with respect to authorization to provide insurance fulfilling the obligation of an
employer to secure the payment of compensation due his employees under the LHWCA as amended or a statutory extension thereof.
(14) The terms
wages, national average weekly wage, injury, disability, death,
and
compensation
shall have the meanings set forth in section 2 of the LHWCA.
(15)
Claimant
includes any person claiming compensation or benefits under the provisions of the LHWCA as amended or a statutory extension thereof on account of the injury or death of an employee.
(b) The definitions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be considered to derogate from any definitions or delimitations of terms in the LHWCA as amended or any of its statutory extensions in any case where such statutory definitions or delimitations would be applicable.
(c) As used in this subchapter, the singular includes plural and the masculine includes the feminine.
[38 FR 26860, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 3848, Jan. 21, 1977; 50 FR 391, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4281, Feb. 3, 1986; 55 FR 28606, July 12, 1990; 70 FR 43233, July 26, 2005; 76 FR 82127, Dec. 30, 2011; 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 701.302
Who is an employee?
(a)
Employee
means any person engaged in maritime employment, including:
(1) Any longshore worker or other person engaged in longshoring operations;
(2) Any harbor worker, including a ship repairer, shipbuilder and shipbreaker; and
(3) Any other individual to whom an injury may be the basis for a compensation claim under the LHWCA as amended, or any of its extensions;
(b) The term does not include:
(1) A master or member of a crew of any vessel; or
(2) Any person engaged by a master to load or unload or repair any small vessel under eighteen tons net.
(c) Nor does this term include the following individuals (whether or not the injury occurs over the navigable waters of the United States) where it is first determined that they are covered by a state workers' compensation act:
(1) Individuals employed exclusively to perform office clerical, secretarial, security, or data processing work (but not longshore cargo checkers and cargo clerks);
(2) Individuals employed by a club (meaning a social or fraternal organization whether profit or nonprofit), camp, recreational operation (meaning any recreational activity, including but not limited to scuba diving, commercial rafting, canoeing or boating activities operated for pleasure of owners, members of a club or organization, or renting, leasing or chartering equipment to another for the latter's pleasure), restaurant, museum or retail outlet;
(3) Individuals employed by a marina, provided they are not engaged in its construction, replacement or expansion, except for routine maintenance such as cleaning, painting, trash removal, housekeeping and small repairs;
(4) Employees of suppliers, vendors and transporters temporarily doing business on the premises of a covered employer, provided they are not performing work normally performed by employees of the covered employer;
(5) Aquaculture workers, meaning those employed by commercial enterprises involved in the controlled cultivation and harvest of aquatic plants and animals, including the cleaning, processing or canning of fish and fish products, the cultivation and harvesting of shellfish, and the controlled growing and harvesting of other aquatic species; or
(6) Individuals employed to build any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length, or individuals employed to repair any recreational vessel, or to dismantle any part of a recreational vessel in connection with the repair of such vessel. For purposes of this paragraph, the special rules set forth at §§ 701.501 through 701.505 apply.
[76 FR 82127, Dec. 30, 2011]

# Coverage Under State Compensation Programs
§ 701.401
Coverage under state compensation programs.
(a) Exclusions from the definition of “employee” under § 701.301(a)(12), and the employees of small vessel facilities
otherwise covered which are exempted from coverage under § 702.171, are dependent upon coverage under a state workers' compensation program. For these purposes, a worker or dependent must first claim compensation under the appropriate state program and receive a final decision on the merits of the claim, denying coverage, before any claim may be filed under this Act.
(b) The intent of the Act is that state law will apply to those categories of employees if it otherwise would. Accordingly, not withstanding any contrary state law, claims by any of the categories of workers excluded under § 701.301 or 702.171 must be made to and processed by the state and a merit decision denying coverage on jurisdictional grounds must be made before coverage or benefits under the Act may be sought.
(c) The time for filing notice and claim under the Act (see subpart B of part 702) does not begin to run for purposes of claims by those workers or dependents described in § 701.301(a)(12) and § 702.171, until a final adverse decision denying coverage under a state compensation act is received.
[50 FR 392, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Special Rules for the Recreational Vessel Exclusion From the Definition of “Employee”
§ 701.501
What is a recreational vessel?
(a)
Recreational vessel
means a vessel—
(1) Being manufactured or operated primarily for pleasure; or
(2) Leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter's pleasure.
(b) In applying the definition in paragraph (a) of this section, the following rules apply:
(1) A vessel being
manufactured
or
built,
or being repaired under warranty by its manufacturer or builder, is a
recreational vessel
if the vessel appears intended, based on its design and construction, to be for ultimate recreational uses. The manufacturer or builder bears the burden of establishing that a vessel is recreational under this standard.
(2) A vessel being
repaired, dismantled for repair,
or
dismantled at the end of its life
is not a
recreational vessel
if the vessel had been operating, around the time of its repair or dismantling, in one or more of the following categories on more than an infrequent basis—
(A) “Passenger vessel” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(22);
(B) “Small passenger vessel” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(35);
(C) “Uninspected passenger vessel” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(42);
(D) Vessel routinely engaged in “commercial service” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(5); or
(E) Vessel that routinely carries “passengers for hire” as defined by 46 U.S.C. 2101(21a).
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a vessel will be deemed recreational if it is a
public vessel, i.e.,
a vessel owned or bareboat-chartered and operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof, at the time of repair, dismantling for repair, or dismantling, provided that such vessel shares elements of design and construction with traditional recreational vessels and is not normally engaged in a military, commercial or traditionally commercial undertaking.
(c) All subsequent amendments to the statutes referenced in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and the regulations implementing those provisions in Title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations will apply when determining whether a vessel is recreational.
[76 FR 82128, Dec. 30, 2011]
§ 701.502
What types of work may exclude a recreational-vessel worker from the definition of “employee”?
(a) An individual who works on recreational vessels may be excluded from the definition of “employee” when:
(1) The individual's date of injury is before February 17, 2009, the injury is covered under a State workers' compensation law, and the individual is employed to:
(i) Build any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length; or
(ii) Repair any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length; or
(iii) Dismantle any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length.
(2) The individual's date of injury is on or after February 17, 2009, the injury
is covered under a State workers' compensation law, and the individual is employed to:
(i) Build any recreational vessel under sixty-five feet in length; or
(ii) Repair any recreational vessel; or
(iii) Dismantle any recreational vessel to repair it.
(b) In applying paragraph (a) of this section, the following principles apply:
(1) “Length” means a straight line measurement of the overall length from the foremost part of the vessel to the aftmost part of the vessel, measured parallel to the center line. The measurement must be from end to end over the deck, excluding sheer. Bow sprits, bumpkins, rudders, outboard motor brackets, handles, and other similar fittings, attachments, and extensions are not included in the measurement.
(2) “Repair” means any repair of a vessel including installations, painting and maintenance work. Repair does not include alterations or conversions that render the vessel a non-recreational vessel under § 701.501. For example, a worker who installs equipment on a private yacht to convert it to a passenger-carrying whale-watching vessel is not employed to “repair” a recreational vessel. Repair also does not include alterations or conversions that render a non-recreational vessel recreational under § 701.501.
(3) “Dismantle” means dismantling any part of a vessel to complete a repair but does not include dismantling any part of a vessel to complete alterations or conversions that render the vessel a non-recreational vessel under § 701.501, or render the vessel recreational under § 701.501, or, if the date of injury is on or after February 17, 2009, to scrap or dispose of the vessel at the end of the vessel's life.
[76 FR 82128, Dec. 30, 2011]
§ 701.503
Did the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 amend the recreational vessel exclusion?
Yes. The amended exclusion was effective February 17, 2009, the effective date of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
[76 FR 82128, Dec. 30, 2011]
§ 701.504
When does the recreational vessel exclusion in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 apply?
(a)
Date of injury.
Whether the amended version applies depends on the date of the injury for which compensation is claimed. The following rules apply to determining the date of injury:
(1)
Traumatic injury.
If the individual claims compensation for a traumatic injury, the date of injury is the date the employee suffered harm. For example, if the individual injures an arm or leg in the course of his or her employment, the date of injury is the date on which the individual was hurt.
(2)
Occupational disease or infection.
Occupational illnesses and infections generally involve delayed onset of symptoms following exposure to a harmful workplace substance or condition. If the individual claims compensation for an occupational illness or infection, the date of injury is the date the individual was exposed to the substance or condition.
(3)
Hearing loss.
If the individual claims compensation for hearing loss, the date of injury is the date the individual was exposed to harmful workplace noise or other stimulus that is capable of causing hearing loss.
(4)
Death-benefit claims.
If the individual claims compensation for an employee's death, the date of injury is the date of the workplace event or incident that caused, hastened, or contributed to the death.
(5)
Cumulative trauma.
If the individual claims compensation for cumulative trauma, in which multiple traumas contribute to an overall medical condition, such as a neck condition resulting from repetitive motion, the date of injury is any date on which a workplace trauma worsened the individual's condition. A workplace event will not be deemed a contributing trauma if a corresponding worsening of the condition is due solely to its natural progression, rather than the workplace event.
(b) If the date of injury is before February 17, 2009, the individual's entitlement is governed by section 2(3)(F) as it existed prior to the 2009 amendment.
(c) If the date of injury is on or after February 17, 2009, the individual's entitlement is governed by the 2009 amendment to section 2(3)(F).
[76 FR 82128, Dec. 30, 2011]
§ 701.505
May an employer stop paying benefits awarded before February 17, 2009 if the employee would now fall within the exclusion?
No. If an individual was awarded compensation for an injury occurring before February 17, 2009, the employer must still pay all benefits awarded, including disability compensation and medical benefits, even if the employee would be excluded from coverage under the amended exclusion.
[76 FR 82129, Dec. 30, 2011]
Pt. 702

# PART 702—ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Administration
Sec.
702.101
Exchange of documents and information.
702.102
Establishment and modification of compensation districts, establishment of suboffices and jurisdictional areas.
702.103
Effect of establishment of suboffices and jurisdictional areas.
702.104
Transfer of individual case file.
702.105
Use of the title District Director in place of Deputy Commissioner.

# Records
702.111
Employer's records.
702.112
Records of the OWCP.
702.113
Inspection of records of the OWCP.
702.114
Copying of records of OWCP.

# Forms
702.121
Forms.

# Representation
702.131
Representation of parties in interest.
702.132
Fees for services.
702.133
Unapproved fees; solicitation of claimants; penalties.
702.134
Payment of claimant's attorney's fees in disputed claims.
702.135
Payment of claimant's witness fees and mileage in disputed claims.

# Information and Assistance for Claimants
702.136
Requests for information and assistance.

# Commutation of Payments and Special Fund
702.142
Commutation of payments; aliens not residents or about to become nonresidents.
702.143
Establishment of special fund.
702.144
Purpose of the special fund.
702.145
Use of the special fund.
702.146
Source of the special fund.
702.147
Enforcement of special fund provisions.
702.148
Insurance carriers' and self-insured employers' responsibility.

# Liens on Compensation
702.161
Liens against assets of insurance carriers and employers.
702.162
Liens on compensation authorized under special circumstances.

# Certification of Exemption
702.171
Certification of exemption, general.
702.172
Certification; definitions.
702.173
Exemptions; requirements, limitations.
702.174
Exemptions; necessary information.
702.175
Effect of work on excluded vessels; reinstatement of certification.

# Subpart B—Claims Procedures

# Employer's Reports
702.201
Reports from employers of employee's injury or death.
702.202
Employer's report; form and contents.
702.203
Employer's report; how given.
702.204
Employer's report; penalty for failure to furnish and or falsifying.
702.205
Employer's report; effect of failure to report upon time limitations.

# Notice
702.211
Notice of employee's injury or death; designation of responsible official.
702.212
Notice; when given; when given for certain occupational diseases.
702.213
Notice; by whom given.
702.214
Notice; form and content.
702.215
Notice; how given.
702.216
Effect of failure to give notice.
702.217
Penalty for false statement, misrepresentation.

# Claims
702.221
Claims for compensation; time limitations.
702.222
Claims; exceptions to time limitations.
702.223
Claims; time limitations; time to object.
702.224
Claims, notification of employer of filing by employee.
702.225
Withdrawal of a claim.

# Noncontroverted Claims
702.231
Noncontroverted claims; payment of compensation without an award.
702.232
Payments without an award; when; how paid.
702.233
Penalty for failure to pay without an award.
702.234
Report by employer of commencement and suspension of payments.
702.235
Report by employer of final payment of compensation.
702.236
Penalty for failure to report termination of payments.

# Agreed Settlements
702.241
Definitions and supplementary information.
702.242
Information necessary for a complete settlement application.
702.243
Settlement application; how submitted, how approved, how disapproved, criteria.

# Controverted Claims
702.251
Employer's controversion of the right to compensation.
702.252
Action by district director upon receipt of notice of controversion.

# Contested Claims
702.261
Claimant's contest of actions taken by employer or carrier with respect to the claim.
702.262
Action by district director upon receipt of notice of contest.

# Discrimination
702.271
Discrimination; against employees who bring proceedings, prohibition and penalty.
702.272
Informal recommendation by district director.
702.273
Adjudication by Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
702.274
Employer's refusal to pay penalty.

# Third Party
702.281
Third party action.

# Report of Earnings
702.285
Report of earnings.
702.286
Report of earnings; forfeiture of compensation.

# Subpart C—Adjudication Procedures

# General
702.301
Scope of this subpart.

# Action By District Directors
702.311
Handling of claims matters by district directors; informal conferences.
702.312
Informal conferences; called by and held before whom.
702.313
Informal conferences; how called; when called.
702.314
Informal conferences; how conducted; where held.
702.315
Conclusion of conference agreement on all matters with respect to the claim.
702.316
Conclusion of conference; no agreement on all matters with respect to the claim.
702.317
Preparation and transfer of the case for hearing.
702.318
The record; what constitutes; nontransferability of the administrative file.
702.319
Obtaining documents from the administrative file for reintroduction at formal hearings.

# Special Fund
702.321
Procedures for determining applicability of section 8(f) of the Act.

# Formal Hearings
702.331
Formal hearings; procedure initiating.
702.332
Formal hearings; how conducted.
702.333
Formal hearings; parties.
702.334
Formal hearings; representatives of parties.
702.335
Formal hearings; notice.
702.336
Formal hearings; new issues.
702.337
Formal hearings; change of time or place for hearings; postponements.
702.338
Formal hearings; general procedures.
702.339
Formal hearings; evidence.
702.340
Formal hearings; witnesses.
702.341
Formal hearings; depositions; interrogatories.
702.342
Formal hearings; witness fees.
702.343
Formal hearings; oral argument and written allegations.
702.344
Formal hearings; record of hearing.
702.345
Formal hearings; consolidated issues; consolidated cases.
702.346
Formal hearings; waiver of right to appear.
702.347
Formal hearings; termination.
702.348
Formal hearings; preparation of final decision and order; content.
702.349
Formal hearings; filing and mailing of compensation orders; disposition of transcripts.
702.350
Finality of compensation orders.
702.351
Withdrawal of controversion of issues set for formal hearing; effect.

# Interlocutory Matters, Supplementary Orders, and Modifications
702.371
Interlocutory matters.
702.372
Supplementary compensation orders.
702.373
Modification of awards.

# Appeals
702.391
Appeals; where.
702.392
Appeals; what may be appealed.
702.393
Appeals; time limitations.
702.394
Appeals; procedure.

# Subpart D—Medical Care and Supervision
702.401
Medical care defined.
702.402
Employer's duty to furnish; duration.
702.403
Employee's right to choose physician; limitations.
702.404
Physician defined.
702.405
Selection of physician; emergencies.
702.406
Change of physicians; non-emergencies.
702.407
Supervision of medical care.
702.408
Evaluation of medical questions; impartial specialists.
702.409
Evaluation of medical questions; results disputed.
702.410
Duties of employees with respect to special examinations.
702.411
Special examinations; nature of impartially of specialists.
702.412
Special examinations; costs chargeable to employer or carrier.
702.413
Fees for medical services; prevailing community charges.
702.414
Fees for medical services; unresolved disputes on prevailing charges.
702.415
Fees for medical services; unresolved disputes on charges; procedure.
702.416
Fees for medical services; disputes; hearings; necessary parties.
702.417
Fees for medical services; disputes; effect of adverse decision.

# Medical Procedures
702.418
Procedure for requesting medical care; employee's duty to notify employer.
702.419
Action by employer upon acquiring knowledge or being given notice of injury.
702.420
Issuance of authorization; binding effect upon insurance carrier.
702.421
Effect of failure to obtain initial authorization.
702.422
Effect of failure to report on medical care after initial authorization.

# Debarment of Physicians and Other Providers of Medical Services and Suppliers and Claims Representatives
702.431
Grounds for debarment.
702.432
Debarment process.
702.433
Requests for hearing.
702.434
Judicial review.
702.435
Effects of debarment.
702.436
Reinstatement.

# Hearing Loss Claims
702.441
Claims for loss of hearing.

# Subpart E—Vocational Rehabilitation
702.501
Vocational rehabilitation; objective.
702.502
Vocational rehabilitation; action by district directors.
702.503
Vocational rehabilitation; action by adviser.
702.504
Vocational rehabilitation; referrals to State Employment Agencies.
702.505
Vocational rehabilitation; referrals to other public and private agencies.
702.506
Vocational rehabilitation; training.
702.507
Vocational rehabilitation; maintenance allowance.
702.508
Vocational rehabilitation; confidentiality of information.

# Subpart F—Occupational Disease Which Does Not Immediately Result in Death or Disability
702.601
Definitions.
702.602
Notice and claims.
702.603
Determining the payrate for compensating occupational disease claims which become manifest after retirement.
702.604
Determining the amount of compensation for occupational disease claims which become manifest after retirement.

# Subpart G—Section 10(f) Adjustments
702.701
What is an annual section 10(f) adjustment and how is it calculated?

# Subpart H—Maximum and Minimum Compensation Rates

# General
702.801
Scope and intent of this subpart.
702.802
Applicability of this subpart.
702.803
Definitions.
702.804
What are the weekly maximum and minimum rates for each fiscal year and how are they calculated?

# Maximum Rates
702.805
What weekly maximum rates apply to compensation for permanent partial disability, temporary total disability, and temporary partial disability?
702.806
What weekly maximum rates apply to compensation for permanent total disability?
702.807
What weekly maximum rates apply to death benefits?

# Minimum Rates
702.808
What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for partial disability?
702.809
What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for temporary total disability?
702.810
What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for permanent total disability?
702.811
What weekly minimum rates apply to death benefits?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, and 8171
et seq.;
33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
43 U.S.C. 1333; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990); Pub. L. 114-74 at sec. 701; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174, 64 Stat. 1263; Secretary's Order 10-2009, 74 FR 58834.

# Source:
38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Administration
§ 702.101
Exchange of documents and information.
(a) Except as otherwise required by the regulations in this subchapter, all documents and information sent to OWCP under this subchapter must be submitted—
(1) In hard copy by postal mail, commercial delivery service (such as Federal Express or United Parcel Service), or hand delivery;
(2) Electronically through an OWCP-authorized system; or
(3) As otherwise allowed by OWCP.
(b) Except as otherwise required by the regulations in this subchapter, all documents and information sent under this subchapter by OWCP to parties and their representatives or from any party or representative to another party or representative must be sent—
(1) In hard copy by postal mail, commercial delivery service (such as Federal Express or United Parcel Service), or hand delivery;
(2) Electronically by a reliable electronic method if the receiving party or representative agrees in writing to receive documents and information by that method; or
(3) Electronically through an OWCP-authorized system that provides service of documents on the parties and their representatives.
(c) Reliable electronic methods for delivering documents include, but are not limited to, email, facsimile and web portal.
(d) Any party or representative may revoke his or her agreement to receive documents and information electronically by giving written notice to OWCP, the party, or the representative with whom he or she had agreed to receive documents and information electronically, as appropriate.
(e) The provisions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section apply when parties are directed by the regulations in this subchapter to: Advise; apply; approve; authorize; demand; file; forward; furnish; give; give notice; inform; issue; make; notice, notify; provide; publish; receive; recommend; refer; release; report; request; respond; return; send; serve; service; submit; or transmit.
(f) Any reference in this subchapter to an application, copy, filing, form, letter, written notice, or written request includes both hard-copy and electronic documents.
(g) Any requirement in this subchapter that a document or information be submitted in writing, or that it be signed, executed, or certified does not preclude its submission or exchange electronically.
(h) Any reference in this subchapter to transmitting information to an entity's address may include that entity's electronic address or electronic portal.
(i) Any requirement in this subchapter that a document or information—
(1) Be sent to a specific district director means that the document or information should be sent to the physical or electronic address provided by OWCP for that district director; and
(2) Be filed by a district director in his or her office means that the document or information may be filed in a physical or electronic location specified by OWCP for that district director.
[80 FR 12928, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.102
Establishment and modification of compensation districts, establishment of suboffices and jurisdictional areas.
(a) The Director has, pursuant to section 39(b) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U.S.C. 939(b), established compensation districts as required for improved administration or as otherwise determined by the Director (see 51 FR 4282, Feb. 3, 1986). The boundaries of the compensation districts may be modified at any time, and the Director will notify all interested parties directly of the modifications.
(b) As administrative exigencies from time to time may require, the Director
may, by administrative order, establish special areas outside the continental United States, Alaska, and Hawaii, or change or modify any areas so established, notwithstanding their inclusion within an established compensation district. Such areas will be designated “jurisdictional areas.” The Director will also designate which of his district directors will be in charge thereof.
(c) To further aid in the efficient administration of the OWCP, the Director may from time to time establish suboffices within compensation districts or jurisdictional areas, and will designate a person to be in charge thereof.
[80 FR 12928, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.103
Effect of establishment of suboffices and jurisdictional areas.
Whenever the Director establishes a suboffice or jurisdictional area, those reports, records, or other documents with respect to processing of claims that are required to be filed with the district director of the compensation district in which the injury or death occurred, may instead be required to be filed with the suboffice, or office established for the jurisdictional area.
[80 FR 12928, Mar. 12, 2015
§ 702.104
Transfer of individual case file.
(a) At any time after a claim is filed, the district director having jurisdiction thereof may, with the prior or subsequent approval of the Director, transfer such case to the district director in another compensation district for the purpose of making an investigation, ordering medical examinations, or taking such other action as may be necessary or appropriate to further develop the claim. If, after filing a claim, the claimant moves to another compensation district, the district director may, upon request by the claimant or the employer and with the approval of the Director, transfer the case to such other compensation district.
(b) The district director making the transfer may by letter or memorandum to the district director to whom the case is transferred give advice, comments, suggestions, or directions if appropriate to the particular case. All interested parties will be advised of the transfer.
[42 FR 45301, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 12928, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.105
Use of the title District Director in place of Deputy Commissioner.
Wherever the statute refers to Deputy Commissioner, these regulations have substituted the term District Director. The substitution is purely an administrative one, and in no way effects the authority of or the powers granted and responsibilities imposed by the statute on that position.
[55 FR 28606, July 12, 1990]

# Records
§ 702.111
Employer's records.
Every employer shall maintain adequate records of injury sustained by employees while in his employ, and which shall also contain information of disease, other impairments or disabilities, or death relating to said injury. Such records shall be available for inspection by the OWCP or by any State authority. Records required by this section shall be retained by the employer for three years following the date of injury; this applies to records for lost-time and no-lost-time injuries.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 47 FR 145, Jan. 5, 1982; 50 FR 393, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.112
Records of the OWCP.
All reports, records, or other documents filed with the OWCP with respect to claims are the records of the OWCP. The Director shall be the official custodian of those records maintained by the OWCP at its national office, and the district director shall be the official custodian of those records maintained at the headquarters office in each compensation district.
§ 702.113
Inspection of records of the OWCP.
Any party in interest may be permitted to examine the record of the
case in which he is interested. The official custodian of the record sought to be inspected shall permit or deny inspection in accordance with the Department of Labor's regulations pertaining thereto (see 29 CFR part 70). The original record in any such case shall not be removed from the office of the custodian for such inspection. The custodian may, in his discretion, deny inspection of any record or part thereof which is of a character specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) if in his opinion such inspection may result in damage, harm, or harassment to the beneficiary or to any other person. For special provisions concerning release of information regarding injured employees undergoing vocational rehabilitation, see § 702.508.
§ 702.114
Copying of records of OWCP.
Any party in interest may request copies of records he has been permitted to inspect. Such requests shall be addressed to the official custodian of the records sought to be copied. The official custodian shall provide the requested copies under the terms and conditions specified in the Department of Labor's regulations relating thereto (see 29 CFR part 70).

# Forms
§ 702.121
Forms.
The Director may from time to time prescribe, and require the use of, forms for the reporting of any information required to be reported by the regulations in this subchapter, or by the Act or any of its extensions.

# Representation
§ 702.131
Representation of parties in interest.
(a) Claimants, employers and insurance carriers may be represented in any proceeding under the Act by an attorney or other person previously authorized in writing by such claimant, employer or carrier to so act.
(b) The Secretary shall annually publish a list of individuals who are disqualified from representing claimants under the Act. Individuals on this list are not authorized to represent claimants under the Act subject to the provision of section 31(b)(2)(C) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 931(b)(2)(C), and they shall not have their representation fee approved as provided in section 28(e), 33 U.S.C. 928(e).
(c) Individuals shall be included on the list mentioned in (b) if the Secretary determines, after proceedings under §§ 702.432(b) through 702.434, that such individual:
(1) Has been convicted (without regard to pending appeal) of any crime in connection with the representation of a claimant under this Act or any workers' compensation statute;
(2) Has engaged in fraud in connection with the presentation of a claim under this or any workers' compensation statute, including, but not limited to, knowingly making false representations, concealing or attempting to conceal material facts with respect to a claim, or soliciting or otherwise procuring false testimony;
(3) Has been prohibited from representing claimants before any other workers' compensation agency for reasons of professional misconduct which are similar in nature to those which would be grounds for disqualification under this section; or
(4) Has accepted fees for representing claimants under the Act which were not approved, or which were in excess of the amount approved pursuant to section 28 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 928.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 394, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.132
Fees for services.
(a) Any person seeking a fee for services performed on behalf of a claimant with respect to claims filed under the Act shall make application therefor to the district director, administrative law judge, Board, or court, as the case may be, before whom the services were performed (See 33 U.S.C. 928(c)). The application shall be filed and serviced upon the other parties within the time limits specified by such district director, administrative law judge, Board, or court. The application shall be supported by a complete statement of the extent and character of the necessary work done, described with particularity as to the professional status (e.g., attorney, paralegal, law clerk, or other person assisting an attorney) of
each person performing such work, the normal billing rate for each such person, and the hours devoted by each such person to each category of work. Any fee approved shall be reasonably commensurate with the necessary work done and shall take into account the quality of the representation, the complexity of the legal issues involved, and the amount of benefits awarded, and when the fee is to be assessed against the claimant, shall also take into account the financial circumstances of the claimant. No contract pertaining to the amount of a fee shall be recognized.
(b) No fee shall be approved for a representative whose name appears on the Secretary's list of disqualified representatives under § 702.131(b).
(c) Where fees are included in a settlement agreement submitted under § 702.241,
et seq.
approval of that agreement shall be deemed approval of attorney fees for purposes of this subsection for work performed before the Administrative Law Judge or district director approving the settlement.
[50 FR 394, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.133
Unapproved fees; solicitation of claimants; penalties.
Under the provisions of section 28(e) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 928(e), any person who receives any fees, other consideration, or any gratuity on account of services rendered as a representative of a claimant, unless such consideration or gratuity is approved under § 702.132, or who makes it a business to solicit employment for an attorney, or for himself in respect of any claim under the Act, shall upon conviction thereof, for each offense be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or by both fine and imprisonment.
§ 702.134
Payment of claimant's attorney's fees in disputed claims.
(a) If the employer or carrier declines to pay any compensation on or before the 30th day after receiving written notice from the district director of a claim for compensation having been filed, on the ground that there is no liability for compensation within the provisions of this Act, and the person seeking benefits shall thereafter have utilized the services of an attorney at law in the successful prosecution of his claim, there shall be awarded, in addition to the award of compensation, in a compensation order, a reasonable attorney's fee against the employer or carrier in an amount approved by the person, administrative body or court before whom the service was performed, which shall be paid directly by the employer or carrier to the attorney for the claimant in a lump sum after the compensation order becomes final (Act, section 28(a)).
(b) If the employer or carrier pays or tenders payment of compensation without an award pursuant to § 702.231 and section 14 (a) and (b) of this Act, and thereafter a controversy develops over the amount of additional compensation, if any, to which the employee may be entitled, the district director, administrative law judge, or Board shall set the matter for an informal conference and following such conference the district director, administrative law judge, or Board shall recommend in writing a disposition of the controversy. If the employer or carrier refuses to accept such written recommendation, within 14 days after its receipt by them, they shall pay or tender to the employee in writing the additional compensation, if any, to which they believe the employee is entitled. If the employee refuses to accept such payment or tender of compensation, and thereafter utilizes the services of an attorney at law, and if the compensation thereafter awarded is greater than the amount paid or tendered by the employer or carrier, a reasonable attorney's fee based solely upon the difference between the amount awarded and the amount tendered or paid shall be awarded in addition to the amount of compensation. The foregoing sentence shall not apply if the controversy relates to degree or length of disability, and if the employer or carrier offers to submit the case for evaluation by physicians employed or selected by the district director, as authorized by section 7(e) of the Act and § 702.408, and offers to tender an amount of compensation based upon the degree or length of disability found by the independent medical report at such time as an evaluation of disability can be
made. If the claimant is successful in review proceedings before the Board or court in any such case an award may be made in favor of the claimant and against the employer or carrier for a reasonable attorney's fee for claimant's counsel in accord with the above provisions. In all other cases any claim for legal services shall not be assessed against the employer or carrier (see Act, section 28(b)).
§ 702.135
Payment of claimant's witness fees and mileage in disputed claims.
In cases where an attorney's fee is awarded against an employer or carrier there may be further assessed against such employer or carrier as costs, fees and mileage for necessary witnesses attending the hearing at the instance of claimant. Both the necessity for the witness and the reasonableness of the fees of expert witnesses must be approved by the hearing officer, the Board, or the court, as the case may be. The amounts awarded against an employer or carrier as attorney's fees, costs, fees and mileage for witnesses shall not in any respect affect or diminish the compensation payable under this Act (see Act, section 28 (d)).

# Information and Assistance for Claimants
§ 702.136
Requests for information and assistance.
(a)
General assistance.
The Director shall, upon request, provide persons covered by the Act with information and assistance relating to the Act's coverage and compensation and the procedures for obtaining such compensation including assistance in processing a claim.
(b)
Legal assistance to claimants.
The Secretary may, upon request, provide a claimant with legal assistance in processing a claim under the Act. Such assistance may be made available to a claimant in the discretion of the Solicitor of Labor or his designee at any time prior to or during which the claim is being processed and shall be furnished without charge to the claimant. Legal representation of the claimant in adjudicatory proceedings may be furnished in cases in which the Secretary's interest in the case is not adverse to that of the claimant.
(c)
Other assistance.
The district directors and their staff, as designees of the Director, shall promptly and fully comply with the request of a claimant receiving compensation for information about, and assistance in obtaining, medical, manpower, and vocational rehabilitation services (see also subparts D and E of this part).

# Commutation of Payments and Special Fund
§ 702.142
Commutation of payments; aliens not residents or about to become nonresidents.
(a) Pursuant to section 9(g) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 909(g), compensation paid to aliens not residents, or about to become nonresidents, of the United States or Canada shall be in the same amount as provided for residents except that dependents in any foreign country shall be limited to surviving spouse and child or children, or if there be no surviving spouse or child or children, to surviving father or mother whom the employee has supported, either wholly or in part, for the period of 1 year prior to the date of injury, and except that the Director, OWCP, may, at his option, or upon the application of the insurance carrier he shall, commute all future installments of compensation to be paid to such aliens by paying or causing to be paid to them one-half of the commuted amount of such future installments of compensation as determined by the Director.
(b) Applications for commutation under this section shall be made in writing to the district director having jurisdiction, and forwarded by the district director to the Director, for final action.
(c) Applications for commutations shall be made effective, if approved by the Director, on the date received by the district director, or on a later date if shown to be appropriate on the application.
(d) Commutations shall not be made with respect to a person journeying abroad for a visit who has previously declared an intention to return and has stated a time for returning, nor shall any commutation be made except upon
the basis of a compensation order fixing the right of the beneficiary to compensation.
[50 FR 394, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.143
Establishment of special fund.
Congress, by section 44 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944, established in the U.S. Treasury a special fund, to be administered by the Secretary. The Treasurer of the United States is the custodian of such fund, and all monies and securities in such fund shall be held in trust by the Treasurer and shall not be money or property of the United States. The Treasurer shall make disbursements from such funds only upon the order of the Director, OWCP, as delegatee of the Secretary. The Act requires that the Treasurer give bond, in an amount to be fixed and with securities to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Comptroller General of the United States, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duty as custodian of such fund.
§ 702.144
Purpose of the special fund.
This special fund was established to give effect to a congressional policy determination that, under certain circumstances, the employer of a particular employee should not be required to bear the entire burden of paying for the compensation benefits due that employee under the Act. Instead, a substantial portion of such burden should be borne by the industry generally. Section 702.145 describes this special circumstance under which the particular employer is relieved of some of his burden. Section 702.146 describes the manner and circumstances of the input into the fund.
§ 702.145
Use of the special fund.
(a)
Under section 10 of the Act.
This section provides for initial and subsequent annual adjustments in compensation and continuing payments to beneficiaries in cases of permanent total disability or death which commenced or occurred prior to enactment of the 1972 Amendments to this Act (Pub. L. 92-576, approved Oct. 27, 1972). At the discretion of the Director, such payments may be paid directly by him to eligible beneficiaries as the obligation accrues, one-half from the special fund and one-half from appropriations, or he may require insurance carriers or self-insured employers already making payments to such beneficiaries to pay such additional compensation as the amended Act requires. In the latter case such carriers and self-insurers shall be reimbursed by the Director for such additional amounts paid, in the proportion of one-half the amount from the special fund and one-half the amount from appropriations. To obtain reimbursement, the carriers and self-insurers shall submit claims for payments made by them during previous periods at intervals of not less than 6 months. A form has been prescribed for such purpose and shall be used. No administrative claims service expense incurred by the carrier or self-insurer shall be included in the claim and no such expense shall be allowed. The amounts reimbursed to such carrier or self-insurer shall be limited to amounts actually due and previously paid to beneficiaries.
(b) Under section 8(f) of the Act (Second Injuries). In any case in which an employee having an existing permanent partial disability suffers injury, the employer shall provide compensation for such disability as is found to be attributable to that injury based upon the average weekly wages of the employee at the time of injury. If, following an injury falling within the provisions of section 8(c)(1)-(20), the employee with the pre-existing permanent partial disability becomes permanently and totally disabled after the second injury, but such total disability is found not to be due solely to his second injury, the employer (or carrier) shall be liable for compensation as provided by the provisions of section 8(c)(1)-(20) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1)-(20) or for 104 weeks, whichever is greater. However, if the injury is a loss of hearing covered by section 8(c)(13), 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(13), the liability shall be the lesser of these periods. In all other cases of a second injury causing permanent total disability (or death), wherein it is found that such disability (or death) is not due solely to the second injury, and wherein the employee had a pre-existing permanent partial disability, the employer (or carrier) shall first pay
compensation under section 8(b) or (e) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(b) or (e), if any is payable thereunder, and shall then pay 104 weeks compensation for such total disability or death, and none otherwise. If the second injury results in permanent partial disability, and if such disability is compensable under section 8(c)(1)-(20) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1)-(20), but the disability so compensable did not result solely from such second injury, and the disability so compensable is materially and substantially greater than that which would have resulted from the second injury alone, then the employer (or carrier) shall only be liable for the amount of compensation provided for in section 8(c)(1)-(20) that is attributable to such second injury, or for 104 weeks, whichever is greater. However, if the injury is a loss of hearing covered by section 8(c)(13), 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(13), the liability shall be the lesser of these periods. In all other cases wherein the employee is permanently and partially disabled following a second injury, and wherein such disability is not attributable solely to that second injury, and wherein such disability is materially and substantially greater than that which would have resulted from the second injury alone, and wherein such disability following the second injury is not compensable under section 8(c)(1)-(20) of the Act, then the employer (or carrier) shall be liable for such compensation as may be appropriate under section 8(b) or (e) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(b) or (e), if any, to be followed by a payment of compensation for 104 weeks, and none other. The term “compensation” herein means money benefits only, and does not include medical benefits. The procedure for determining the extent of the employer's (or carrier's) liability under this paragraph shall be as provided for in the adjudication of claims in subpart C of this part 702. Thereafter, upon cessation of payments which the employer is required to make under this paragraph, if any additional compensation is payable in the case, the district director shall forward such case to the Director for consideration of an award to the person or persons entitled thereto out of the special fund. Any such award from the special fund shall be by order of the Director or Acting Director.
(c)
Under sections 8(g) and 39(c)(2) of the Act.
These sections, 33 U.S.C. 908(g) and 939(c)(2), respectively, provide for vocational rehabilitation of disabled employees, and authorize, under appropriate circumstances, a maintenance allowance for the employee (not to exceed $25 a week) in additional to other compensation benefits otherwise payable for his injury-related disability. Awards under these sections are made from the special fund upon order of the Director or his designee. The district directors may be required to make investigations with respect to any case and forward to the Director their recommendations as to the propriety and need for such maintenance.
(d)
Under section 39(c)(2) of the Act.
In addition to the maintenance allowance for the employee discussed in paragraph (c) of this section, the Director is further authorized to use the fund in such amounts as may be necessary to procure the vocational training services.
(e)
Under section 7(e) of the Act.
This provision, 33 U.S.C. 907(e), authorizes payment by the Director from the special fund for special medical examinations,
i.e.
, those obtained from impartial specialists to resolve disputes, when such special examinations are deemed necessary under that statutory provision. The Director has the discretionary power, however, to charge the cost of such examination to the insurance carrier or self-insured employer.
(f)
Under section 18(b) of the Act.
This section, 33 U.S.C. 918(b), provides a source for payment of compensation benefits in cases where the employer is insolvent, or other circumstances preclude the payment of benefits due in any case. In such situations, the district director shall forward the case to the Director for consideration of an award from the special fund, together with evidence with respect to the employer's insolvency or other reasons for nonpayment of benefits due. Benefits, as herein used, means medical care or supplies within the meaning of section 7 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 907, and subpart D of this part 702, as well as monetary benefits. Upon receipt of the case, the Director shall promptly determine
whether an award from the special fund is appropriate and advisable in the case, having due regard for all other current commitments from the special fund. If such an award is made, the employer shall be liable for the repayment into the fund of the amounts paid therefrom, as provided in 33 U.S.C. 918(b).
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0065. The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0073)
(Pub. L. No. 96-511)
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 49 FR 18294, Apr. 30, 1984; 51 FR 4282, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.146
Source of the special fund.
(a) All amounts collected as fines and penalties under the several provisions of the Act shall be paid into the special fund (33 U.S.C. 44(c)(3)).
(b) Whenever an employee dies under circumstances creating a liability on an employer to pay death benefits to the employee's beneficiaries, and whenever there are no such beneficiaries entitled to such payments, the employer shall pay $5,000 into the special fund (Act, section 44(c)(1)). In such cases, the compensation order entered in the case shall specifically find that there is such liability and that there are no beneficiaries entitled to death benefits, and shall order payment by the employer into the fund. Compensation orders shall be made and filed in accordance with the regulations in subpart C of this part 702, except that for this purpose the district director settling the case under § 702.315 shall formalize the memorandum of conference in a compensation order, and shall file such order as provided for in § 702.349.
(c) The Director annually shall assess an amount against insurance carriers and self-insured employers authorized under the Act and part 703 of this subchapter to replenish the fund. That total amount to be charged all carriers and self-insurers to be assessed shall be based upon an estimate of the probable expenses of the fund during the calendar year. The assessment against each carrier and self-insurer shall be based upon (1) the ratio of the amount each paid during the prior calendar year for compensation in relation to the amount all such carriers of self-insurers paid during that period for compensation, and (2) the ratio of the amount of payments made by the special fund for all cases being paid under section 8(f) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(f), during the preceding calendar year which are attributable to the carrier or self-insurer in relation to the total of such payments during such year attributable to all carriers and self-insurers. The resulting sum of the percentages from paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section will be divided by two, and the resulting percentage multiplied by the probable expenses of the fund. The Director may, in his or her discretion, condition continuance or renewal of authorization under part 703 upon prompt payment of the assessment. However, no action suspending or revoking such authorization shall be taken without affording such carrier or self-insurer a hearing before the Director or his/her designee.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 395, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4282, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.147
Enforcement of special fund provisions.
(a) As provided in section 44(d)(1) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944(d)(1), for the purpose of making rules, regulations, and determinations under the special fund provisions in section 44 and for providing enforcement thereof, the Director may investigate and gather appropriate data from each carrier and self-insured employer, and may enter and inspect such places and records (and make such transcriptions of records), question such employees, and investigate such facts, conditions, practices, or other matters as he may deem necessary or appropriate. The Director may require the employer to have audits performed of claims activity relating to this Act. The Director may also require detailed reports of payments made under the Act, and of estimated future liabilities under the Act, from any or all carriers of self-insurers. The Director may require that such reports be certified and verified in whatever manner is considered appropriate.
(b) Pursuant to section 44(d)(3) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944(d)(3), for the purpose of any hearing or investigation related to determinations or the enforcement of the provisions of section 44 with respect to the special fund, the provisions of 15 U.S.C. 49 and 50 as amended (the Federal Trade Commission Act provisions relating to attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and documents) are made applicable to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Director, OWCP, as the Secretary's delegatee.
(c) Civil penalties and unpaid assessments shall be collected by civil suits brought by and in the name of the Secretary.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 395, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.148
Insurance carriers' and self-insured employers' responsibilities.
(a) Each carrier and self-insured employer shall make, keep, and preserve such records, and make such reports and provide such additional information as the Director prescribes or orders, which he considers necessary or appropriate to effectively carry out his responsibilities.
(b) Consistent with their greater direct liability stemming from the amended assessment formula, employers and insurance carriers are given the authority to monitor their claims in the special fund as outlined in paragraph (c) of this section. For purposes of monitoring these claims, employers and insurance carriers remain parties in interest to the claim and are allowed access to all records relating to the claim. Similarly, employers and insurance carriers can initiate proceeding to modify an award of compensation after the special fund has assumed the liability to pay benefits. It is intended that employers and insurance carriers have neither a greater nor a lesser responsibility in this new role that they not have with regard to cases that remain their sole liability. (See § 702.373(d).)
(c) An employer or insurance carrier may conduct any reasonable investigation regarding cases placed into the special fund by the employer or insurance carrier. Such investigation may include, but shall not be limited to, a semi-annual request for earnings information pursuant to section 8(j) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(j) (See § 702.285) periodic medical examinations, vocational rehabilitation evaluations, and requests for any additional information needed to effectively monitor such a case.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0118)
(Pub. L. No. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
))
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 47 FR 145, Jan. 5, 1982; 50 FR 395, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Liens on Compensation
§ 702.161
Liens against assets of insurance carriers and employers.
Where payments have been made from the special fund pursuant to section 18(b) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 918(b) and § 704.145(f) the Secretary of Labor shall, for the benefit of the fund, be subrogated to all the rights of the person receiving such payments. The Secretary may institute proceedings under either section 18 or 21(d) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 918 or 921(d), or both, to recover the amount expended by the fund or so much as in the judgement of the Secretary is possible, or the Secretary may settle or compromise any such claim.
[50 FR 395, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.162
Liens on compensation authorized under special circumstances.
(a) Pursuant to section 17 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 917, when a trust fund which complies with section 302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, 29 U.S.C. 186(c) [LMRA], established pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement in effect between an employer and an employee entitled to compensation under this Act, has paid disability benefits to an employee which the employee is legally obligated to repay by reason of his entitlement to compensation under this Act, a lien shall be authorized on such compensation in favor of the trust fund for the amount of such payments.
(b)(1) An application for such a lien shall be filed on behalf of the trust
fund with the district director for the compensation district where the claim for compensation has been filed, 20 CFR 702.101. Such application shall include a certified statement by an authorized official of the trust fund that:
(i) The trust fund is entitled to a lien in its favor by reason of its payment of disability payments to a claimant-employee (including his name therein);
(ii) The trust fund was created pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement covering the claimant-employee;
(iii) The trust fund complies with section 302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, 29 U.S.C. 186(c);
(iv) The trust agreement contains a subrogation provision entitling the fund to reimbursement for disability benefits paid to the claimant-employee who is entitled to compensation under the Longshoremen's Act;
(2) The statement shall also state the amount paid to the named claimant-employee and whether such disability benefit payments are continuing to be paid.
(3) If the claimant has signed a statement acknowledging receipt of disability benefits from the trust fund and/or a statement recognizing the trust fund's entitlement to a lien against compensation payments which may be received under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Worker's Compensation Act as a result of his present claim and for which the fund is providing disability payments, such statement(s) shall also be included with or attached to the application.
(c) Upon receipt of this application, the district director shall, within a reasonable time, notify the claimant, the employer and/or its compensation insurance carrier that the request for a lien has been filed and each shall be provided with a copy of the application. If the claimant disputes the right of the trust fund to the lien or the amount stated, if any, he shall, within 30 days after receipt of the application or such other longer period as the district director may set, notify the district director and he shall be given an opportunity to challenge the right of the trust fund to, or the amount of, the asserted lien; notice to either the employer or its compensation insurance carrier shall constitute notice to both of them.
(d) If the claim for compensation benefits is resolved without a formal hearing and if there is no dispute over the amount of the lien or the right of the trust fund to the lien, the district director may order and impose the lien and he shall notify all parties of the amount of the lien and manner in which it is to be paid.
(e) If the claimant's claim for compensation cannot be resolved informally, the district director shall transfer the case to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge for a formal hearing, pursuant to section 19(d) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 919(d), and 20 CFR 702.317. The district director shall also submit therewith the application for the lien and all documents relating thereto.
(f) If the administrative law judge issues a compensation order in favor of the claimant, such order shall establish a lien in favor of the trust fund if it is determined that the trust fund has satisfied all of the requirements of the Act and regulations.
(g) If the claim for compensation is not in dispute, but there is a dispute as to the right of the trust fund to a lien, or the amount of the lien, the district director shall transfer the matter together with all documents relating thereto to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge for a formal hearing pursuant to section 19(d) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 919(d), and 20 CFR 702.317.
(h) In the event that either the district director or the administrative law judge is not satisfied that the trust fund qualifies for a lien under section 17, the district director or administrative law judge may require further evidence including but not limited to the production of the collective bargaining agreement, trust agreement or portions thereof.
(i) Before any such lien is approved, if the trust fund has provided continued disability payments after the application for a lien has been filed, the trust fund shall submit a further certified statement showing the total amount paid to the claimant as disability payments. The claimant shall likewise be given an opportunity to
contest the amount alleged in this subsequent statement.
(j) In approving a lien on compensation, the district director or administrative law judge shall not order an initial payment to the trust fund in excess of the amount of the past due compensation. The remaining amount to which the trust fund is entitled shall thereafter be deducted from the affected employee's subsequent compensation payments and paid to the trust fund, but any such payment to the trust fund shall not exceed 10 percent of the claimant-employee's bi-weekly compensation payments.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[42 FR 45301, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 395, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4282, Feb. 3, 1986]

# Certification of Exemption
§ 702.171
Certification of exemption, general.
An employer may apply to the Director or his/her designee to certify a particular facility as one engaged in the building, repairing or dismantling of exclusively small vessels, as defined. Once certified, injuries sustained at that facility would not be covered under the Act except for injuries which occur over the navigable waters of the United States including any adjoining pier, wharf, dock, facility over land for launching vessels or for hauling, lifting or drydocking vessels. A facility otherwise covered under the Act remains covered until certification of exemption is issued; a certification will be granted only upon submission of a complete application (described in § 702.174), and only for as long as a facility meets the requirements detailed in section 3(d) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 903(d). This exemption from coverage is not intended to be used by employers whose facilities from time to time may temporarily meet the criteria for qualification but only for facilities which work on exclusively small vessels, as defined.
[50 FR 396, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.172
Certification; definitions.
For purposes of §§ 702.171 through 702.175 dealing with certification of small vessel facilities, the following definitions are applicable.
(a)(1) “Small vessel” means only those vessels described in section 3(d)(3) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 903(d)(3), that is:
(i) A commercial barge which is under 900 lightship displacement tons (long); or
(ii) A commercial tugboat, towboat, crewboat, supply boat, fishing vessel or other work vessel which is under 1,600 tons gross.
(2) For these purposes: (i) One gross ton equals 100 cubic feet, as measured by the current formula contained in the Act of May 6, 1894 as amended through 1974 (46 U.S.C. 77); (ii) one long ton equals 2,240 lbs; and (iii) “Commercial” as it applies to “vessel” means any vessel engaged in commerce but does not include military vessels or Coast Guard vessels.
(b) “Federal Maritime Subsidy” means the construction differential subsidy (CDS) or operating differential subsidy under the Merchant Marine Act of 1936 (46 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
).
(c)
facility
means an operation of an employer at a particular contiguous geographic location.
[51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.173
Exemptions; requirements, limitations.
(a) Injuries at a facility otherwise covered by the Act are exempted only upon certification that the facility is: (1) Engaged in the building, repairing or dismantling of exclusively small commercial vessels; and (2) does not receive a Federal maritime subsidy.
(b) The exemption does not apply to: (1) Injuries at any facility which occur over the navigable waters of the United States or upon any adjoining pier, wharf, dock, facility over land for launching vessels or for hauling, lifting or drydocking vessels; or (2) where the employee at such facility is not subject to a State workers' compensation law.
[50 FR 396, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.174
Exemptions; necessary information.
(a)
Application.
Before any facility is exempt from coverage under the Act, the facility must apply for and receive
a certificate of exemption from the Director or his/her designee. The application must be made by the owner of the facility; where the owner is a partnership it must be made by a partner and where a corporation by an officer of the corporation or the manager in charge of the facility for which an exemption is sought. The information submitted must include the following:
(1) Name, location, physical description and a site plan or aerial photograph of the facility for which an exemption is sought.
(2) Description of the nature of the business.
(3) An affidavit (signed by a partner if the facility is owned by a partnership or an officer if owned by a corporation) vertifying and/or acknowledging that:
(i) the facility is, as of the date of the application, engaged in the business of building, repairing or dismantling exclusively small commercial vessels and that it does not then nor foreseeably will it engage in the building, repairing or dismantling of other than small vessels.
(ii) The facility does not receive any Federal maritime subsidy.
(iii) The signator has the duty to immediately inform the district director of any change in these or other conditions likely to result in a termination of an exemption.
(iv) the employer has secured appropriate compensation liability under a State workers' compensation law.
(v) Any false, relevant statements relating to the application or the failure to notify the district director of any changes in circumstances likely to result in termination of the exemption will be grounds for revocation of the exemption certificate and will subject the employer to all provisions of the Act, including all duties, responsibilities and penalties, retroactive to the date of application or date of change in circumstances, as appropriate.
(b)
Action by the Director.
The Director or his/her designee must review the application within thirty (30) days of its receipt.
(1) Where the application is complete and shows that all requirements under § 702.173 are met, the Director must promptly notify the employer that certification has been approved and will be effective on the date specified. The employer is required to post notice of the exemption at a conspicuous location.
(2) Where the application is incomplete or does not substantiate that all requirements of section 3(d) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 903(d), have been met, or evidence shows the facility is not eligible for exemption, the Director must promptly notify the employer by issuing a letter which details the reasons for the deficiency or the rejection. The employer/applicant may reapply for certification, correcting deficiencies and/or responding to the reasons for the Director's denial. The Director or his/her designee must issue a new decision within a reasonable time of reapplication following denial. Such action will be the final administrative review and is not appealable to the Administrative Law Judge or the Benefits Review Board.
(c) The Director or another designated individual at any time has the right to enter on and inspect any facility seeking exemption for purposes of verifying information provided on the application form.
(d)
Action by the employer.
Immediately upon receipt of the certificate of exemption from coverage under the Act the employer must post:
(1) A general notice in a conspicuous place that the Act does not cover injuries sustained at the facility in question, the basis of the exemption, the effective date of the exemption and grounds for termination of the exemption.
(2) A notice, where applicable, at the entrances to all areas to which the exemption does not apply.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 396, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986; 80 FR 12928, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.175
Effect of work on excluded vessels; reinstatement of certification.
(a) When a vessel other than a small commercial vessel, as defined in § 702.172, enters a facility which has been certified as exempt from coverage, the exemption shall automatically terminate as of the date such a
vessel enters the facility. The exemption shall also terminate on the date a contract for a Federal maritime subsidy is entered into, and, in the situation where the facility undertakes to build a vessel other than a small vessel, when the construction first takes on the characteristics of a vessel,
i.e.
, when the keel is laid. All duties, obligations and requirements imposed by the Act, including the duty to secure compensation liability as required by sections 4 and 32 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 904 and 932, and to keep records and forward reports, are effective immediately. The employer shall notify the Director or his/her designee immediately where this occurs.
(b) Where an exemption certification is terminated because of circumstances described in (a), the employer may apply for reinstatement of the exemption once the event resulting in termination of the exemption ends. The reapplication shall consist of a reaffirmation of the nature of the business, an explanation of the circumstances leading to the termination of exemption, and an affidavit by the appropriate person affirming that the circumstances prompting the termination no longer exists nor will they reoccur in the forseeable future and that the facility is engaged in building, repairing or dismantling exclusively small vessels. The Director or the Director's designee shall respond to the complete reapplication within ten working days of receipt.
[50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986]

# Subpart B—Claims Procedures

# Employer's Reports
§ 702.201
Reports from employers of employee's injury or death.
(a) Within 10 days from the date of an employee's injury or death, or 10 days from the date an employer has knowledge of an employee's injury or death, including any disease or death proximately caused by the employment, the employer shall furnish a report thereof to the district director for the compensation district in which the injury or death occurred, and shall thereafter furnish such additional or supplemental reports as the district director may request.
(b) No report shall be filed unless the injury causes the employee to lose one or more shifts from work. However, the employer shall keep a record containing the information specified in § 702.202. Compliance with the current OSHA injury record keeping requirements at 29 CFR part 1904 will satisfy the record keeping requirements of this section for no lost time injuries.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.202
Employer's report; form and contents.
The employer's report of an employee's injury or death shall be in writing and on a form prescribed by the Director for this purpose, and shall contain:
(a) The name, address and business of the employer;
(b) The name, address, occupation and Social Security Number (SSN) of the employee;
(c) The cause, nature, and other relevant circumstances of the injury or death;
(d) The year, month, day, and hour when, and the particular locality where, the injury or death occurred;
(e) Such other information as the Director may require.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 1215-0031 and 1215-0063)
[58 FR 68032, Dec. 23, 1993]
§ 702.203
Employer's report; how given.
(a) The employer must file its report of injury with the district director.
(b) If the employer sends its report of injury by U.S. postal mail or commercial delivery service, the report will be considered filed on the date that the employer mails the document or gives it to the commercial delivery service. If the employer sends its report of injury by a permissible electronic method, the report will be considered filed on the date that the employer completes all steps necessary for the transmission.
[80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.204
Employer's report; penalty for failure to furnish and or falsifying.
Any employer, insurance carrier, or self-insured employer who knowingly and willfully fails or refuses to send any report required by § 702.201, or who knowingly or willfully makes a false statement or misrepresentation in any report, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $29,980for each such failure, refusal, false statement, or misrepresentation for which penalties are assessed after January 15, 2025. The district director has the authority and responsibility for assessing a civil penalty under this section.
[81 FR 43449, July 1, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 5380, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 11, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 217, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2296, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2967, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2333, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2215, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1814, Jan. 11, 2023; 90 FR 1858, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 702.205
Employer's report; effect of failure to report upon time limitations.
Where the employer, or agent in charge of the business, or carrier has been given notice or has knowledge of an employee's injury or death, and fails, neglects, or refuses to file a report thereof as required by § 702.201, the time limitations provisions with respect to the filing of claims for compensation for disability or death (33 U.S.C. 913(a), and see § 702.221) shall not begin to run until such report shall have been furnished as required herein.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Notice
§ 702.211
Notice of employee's injury or death; designation of responsible official.
(a) In order to claim compensation under the Act, an employee or claimant must first give notice of the fact of an injury or death to the employer and also may give notice to the district director for the compensation district in which the injury or death occurred. Notice to the employer must be given to that individual whom the employer has designated to receive such notices. If no individual has been so designated notice may be given to: (1) The first line supervisor (including foreman, hatchboss or timekeeper), local plant manager or personnel office official; (2) to any partner if the employer is a partnership; or (3) if the employer is a corporation, to any authorized agent, to an officer or to the person in charge of the business at the place where the injury occurred. In the case of a retired employee, the employee/claimant may submit the notice to any of the above persons, whether or not the employer has designated an official to receive such notice.
(b) In order to facilitate the filing of notices, each employer shall designate at least one individual responsible for receiving notices of injury or death; this requirement applies to all employers. The designation shall be by position and the employer shall provide the name and/or position, exact location and telephone number of the individual to all employees by the appropriate method described below.
(1)
Type of individual.
Designees must be a first line supervisor (including a foreman, hatchboss or timekeeper), local plant manager, personnel office official, company nurse or other individual traditionally entrusted with this duty, who is located full-time on the premises of the covered facility. The employer must designate at least one individual at each place of employment or one individual for each work crew where there is no fixed place of employment (in that case, the designation should always be the same position for all work crews).
(2)
How designated.
The name and/or title, the location and telephone number of the individual who is selected by the employer to receive all notices shall be given to the district director for the compensation district in which the facility is located; posting on the worksite in a conspicuous place shall fulfill this requirement. A redesignation shall be effected by a change in posting.
(3)
Publication.
Every employer shall post the name and/or position, the exact location and telephone number of the designated official. The posting shall be part of the general posting requirement, done on a form prescribed
by the Director, and placed in a conspicuous location. Posting must be done at each worksite.
(4)
Effect of failure to designate.
Where an employer fails to properly designate and to properly publish the name and/or position of the individual authorized to receive notices of injury or death, such failure shall constitute satisfactory reasons for excusing the employee/claimant's failure to give notice as authorized by section 12(d)(3)(ii) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 912(d)(3)(ii).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.212
Notice; when given; when given for certain occupational diseases.
(a) For other than occupational diseases described in (b), the employee must give notice within thirty (30) days of the date of the injury or death. For this purpose the date of injury or death is:
(1) The day on which a traumatic injury occurs;
(2) The date on which the employee or claimant is or by the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice, should have been aware of a relationship between the injury or death and the employment; or
(3) In the case of claims for loss of hearing, the date the employee receives an audiogram, with the accompanying report which indicates the employee has suffered a loss of hearing that is related to his or her employment. (See § 702.441).
(b) In the case of an occupational disease which does not immediately result in disability or death, notice must be given within one year after the employee or claimant becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice, should have been aware, of the relationship between the employment, the disease and the death or disability. For purposes of these occupational diseases, therefore, the notice period does not begin to run until the employee is disabled, or in the case of a retired employee, until a permanent impairment exists.
(c) For purposes of workers whose coverage under this Act is dependent on denial of coverage under a State compensation program, as described in § 701.401, the time limitations set forth above do not begin to run until a final decision denying State coverage is issued under the State compensation act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.213
Notice; by whom given.
Notice shall be given by the injured employee or someone on his behalf, or in the case of death, by the deceased employee's beneficiary or someone on his behalf.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973. Redesignated at 50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.214
Notice; form and content.
Notice shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the Director for this purpose; such form shall be made available to the employee or beneficiary by the employer. The notice shall be signed by the person authorized to give notice, and shall contain the name, address and Social Security Number (SSN) of the employee and, in death cases, also the SSN of the person seeking survivor benefits, and a statement of the time, place, nature and cause of the injury or death.
[58 FR 68032, Dec. 23, 1993]
§ 702.215
Notice; how given.
Notice must be effected by delivering it to the individual designated to receive such notices at the physical or electronic address designated by the employer. Notice may be given to the district director by submitting a copy of the form supplied by OWCP to the district director, or orally in person or by telephone.
[80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.216
Effect of failure to give notice.
Failure to give timely notice to the employer's designated official shall not bar any claim for compensation if: (a) The employer, carrier, or designated
official had actual knowledge of the injury or death; or (b) the district director or ALJ determines the employer or carrier has not been prejudiced: or (c) the district director excuses failure to file notice. For purposes of this subsection, actual knowledge shall be deemed to exist if the employee's immediate supervisor was aware of the injury and/or in the case of a hearing loss, where the employer has furnished to the employee an audiogram and report which indicates a loss of hearing. Failure to give notice shall be excused by the district director if: a) Notice, while not given to the designated official, was given to an official of the employer or carrier, and no prejudice resulted; or b) for some other satisfactory reason, notice could not be given. Failure to properly designate and post the individual so designated shall be considered a satisfactory reason. In any event, such defense to a claim must be raised by the employer/carrier at the first hearing on the claim.
[51 FR 4283, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.217
Penalty for false statement, misrepresentation.
(a) Any claimant or representative of a claimant who knowingly and willfully makes a false statement or representation for the purpose of obtaining a benefit or payment under this Act shall be guilty of a felony, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $10,000, by imprisonment not to exceed five years, or by both.
(b) Any person including, but not limited to, an employer, its duly authorized agent or an employee of an insurance carrier, who knowingly and willingly makes a false statement or representation for the purpose of reducing, denying or terminating benefits to an injured employee, or his dependents pursuant to section 9, 33 U.S.C. 909, if the injury results in death, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $10,000, by imprisonment not to exceed five years, or both.
[50 FR 398, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Claims
§ 702.221
Claims for compensation; time limitations.
(a) Claims for compensation for disability or death shall be in writing and filed with the district director for the compensation district in which the injury or death occurred. The Social Security Number (SSN) of the injured employee and, in cases of death, the SSN of the person seeking survivor benefits shall also be set forth on each claim. Claims may be filed anytime after the seventh day of disability or anytime following the death of the employee. Except as provided below, the right to compensation is barred unless a claim is filed within one year of the injury or death, or (where payment is made without an award) within one year of the date on which the last compensation payment was made.
(b) In the case of a hearing loss claim, the time for filing a claim does not begin to run until the employee receives an audiogram with the accompanying report which indicates the employee has sustained a hearing loss that is related to his or her employment. (See § 702.441).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 398, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4284, Feb. 3, 1986; 58 FR 68032, Dec. 23, 1993]
§ 702.222
Claims; exceptions to time limitations.
(a) Where a person entitled to compensation under the Act is mentally incompetent or a minor, the time limitation provision of § 702.221 shall not apply to a mentally incompetent person so long as such person has no guardian or other authorized representative, but § 702.221 shall be applicable from the date of appointment of such guardian or other representative. In the case of minor who has no guardian before he or she becomes of age, time begins to run from the date he or she becomes of age.
(b) Where a person brings a suit at law or in admiralty to recover damages in respect of an injury or death, or files a claim under a State workers' compensation act because such person is excluded from this Act's coverage by reason of section 2(3) or 3(d) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. 902(3) or 903(d)), and recovery is denied because the person was an employee and defendant was an employer within the meaning of the Act, and such employer had secured compensation to such employee under the Act, the time limitation in § 702.221 shall not begin to run until the date of termination of such suit or proceeding.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) of this section, where the claim is one based on disability or death due to an occupational disease which does not immediately result in death or disability, it must be filed within two years after the employee or claimant becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice, should have been aware of the relationship between the employment, the disease and the death or disability, or within one year of the date of last payment of compensation, whichever is later. For purposes of occupational disease, therefore, the time limitation for filing a claim does not begin to run until the employee is disabled, or in the case of a retired employee, where a permanent impairment exists.
(d) The time limitations set forth above do not apply to claims filed under section 49 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 949.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 398, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.223
Claims; time limitations; time to object.
Notwithstanding the requirements of § 702.221, failure to file a claim within the period prescribed in such section shall not be a bar to such right unless objection to such failure is made at the first hearing of such claim in which all parties in interest are given reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973. Redesignated and amended at 50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.224
Claims; notification of employer of filing by employee.
Within 10 days after the filing of a claim for compensation for injury or death under the Act, the district director must give written notice thereof to the employer or carrier.
[80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.225
Withdrawal of a claim.
(a)
Before adjudication of claim.
A claimant (or an individual who is authorized to execute a claim on his behalf) may withdraw his previously filed claim:
Provided,
That:
(1) He files with the district director with whom the claim was filed a written request stating the reasons for withdrawal;
(2) The claimant is alive at the time his request for withdrawal is filed;
(3) The district director approves the request for withdrawal as being for a proper purpose and in the claimant's best interest; and
(4) The request for withdrawal is filed, on or before the date the OWCP makes a determination on the claim.
(b)
After adjudication of claim.
A claim for benefits may be withdrawn by a written request filed after the date the OWCP makes a determination on the claim:
Provided,
That:
(1) The conditions enumerated in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section are met; and
(2) There is repayment of the amount of benefits previously paid because of the claim that is being withdrawn or it can be established to the satisfaction of the Office that repayment of any such amount is assured.
(c)
Effect of withdrawal of claim.
Where a request for withdrawal of a claim is filed and such request for withdrawal is approved, such withdrawal shall be without prejudice to the filing of another claim, subject to the time limitation provisions of section 13 of the Act and of the regulations in this part.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973. Redesignated at 50 FR 397, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Noncontroverted Claims
§ 702.231
Noncontroverted claims; payment of compensation without an award.
Unless the employer controverts its liability to pay compensation under this Act, the employer or insurance carrier shall pay periodically, promptly and directly to the person entitled
thereto benefits prescribed by the Act. For this purpose, where the employer furnishes to an employee a copy of an audiogram with a report thereon, which indicates the employee has sustained a hearing loss causally related to factors of that employment, the employer or insurance carrier shall pay appropriate compensation or at that time controvert the liability to pay compensation under this Act.
[50 FR 399, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.232
Payments without an award; when; how paid.
The first installment of compensation shall become due by the fourteenth (14th) day after the employer has been notified, through the designated official or by any other means described in § 702.211
et seq.,
or has actual knowledge of the injury or death. All compensation due on that fourteenth (14th) day shall be paid then and appropriate compensation due thereafter must be paid in semi-monthly installments, unless the district director determines otherwise.
[50 FR 399, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.233
Penalty for failure to pay without an award.
If any installment of compensation payable without an award is not paid within 14 days after it becomes due, there shall be added to such unpaid installment an amount equal to 10 per centum thereof which shall be paid at the same time as, but in addition to, such installment unless the employer files notice of controversion in accordance with § 702.261, or unless such nonpayment is excused by the district director after a showing by the employer that owing to conditions over which he had no control such installment could not be paid within the period prescribed for the payment.
§ 702.234
Report by employer of commencement and suspension of payments.
Immediately upon making the first payment of compensation, and upon the suspension of payments once begun, the employer must notify the district director who is administering the claim of the commencement or suspension of payments, as the case may be.
[80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.235
Report by employer of final payment of compensation.
(a) Within 16 days after the final payment of compensation has been made, the employer, the insurance carrier, or where the employer is self-insured, the employer shall notify the district director on a form prescribed by the Secretary, stating that such final payment has been made, the total amount of compensation paid, the name and address of the person(s) to whom payments were made, the date of the injury or death and the name of the injured or deceased employee, and the inclusive dates during which compensation was paid.
(b) A “final payment of compensation” for the purpose of applying the penalty provision of § 702.236 shall be deemed any one of the following:
(1) The last payment of compensation made in accordance with a compensation order awarding disability or death benefits, issued by either a district director or an administrative law judge;
(2) The payment of an agreed settlement approved under section 8(i) (A) or (B), of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(i);
(3) The last payment made pursuant to an agreement reached by the parties through informal proceedings;
(4) Any other payment of compensation which anticipates no further payments under the Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0024)
(Pub. L. No. 96-511)
[42 FR 45302, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 18294, Apr. 30, 1984; 50 FR 399, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.236
Penalty for failure to report termination of payments.
Any employer failing to notify the district director that the final payment of compensation has been made as required by § 702.235 shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $365 for any violation for which penalties are
assessed after January 15, 2025. The district director has the authority and responsibility for assessing a civil penalty under this section.
[81 FR 43449, July 1, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 5380, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 11, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 217, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2296, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2967, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2333, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2215, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1814, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1858, Jan. 10, 2025]

# Agreed Settlements
§ 702.241
Definitions and supplementary information.
(a) As used hereinafter, the term
adjudicator
shall mean district director or administrative law judge (ALJ).
(b) If a settlement application is submitted to an adjudicator and the case is pending at the Office of Administrative Law Judges, the Benefits Review Board, or any Federal circuit court of appeals, the parties may request that the case be remanded to the adjudicator for consideration of the application. The thirty day period as described in paragraph (f) of this section begins when the remanded case is received by the adjudicator.
(c) If a settlement application is first submitted to an ALJ, the thirty day period mentioned in paragraph (f) of this section does not begin until five days before the date the formal hearing is set. This rule does not preclude the parties from submitting the application at any other time such as (1) after the case is referred for hearing, (2) at the hearing, or (3) after the hearing but before the ALJ issues a decision and order. Where a case is pending before the ALJ but not set for a hearing, the parties may request the case be remanded to the district director for consideration of the settlement.
(d) A settlement agreement between parties represented by counsel, which is deemed approved when not disapproved within thirty days, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be considered to have been filed in the office of the district director on the thirtieth day for purposes of sections 14 and 21 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 914 and 921.
(e) A fee for representation which is included in an agreement that is approved in the manner described in paragraph (d) of this section, shall also be considered approved within the meaning of section 28(e) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 928(e).
(f) The thirty day period for consideration of a settlement agreement shall be calculated from the day after receipt unless the parties are advised otherwise by the adjudicator. (See § 702.243(b)). If the last day of this period is a holiday or occurs during a weekend, the next business day shall be considered the thirtieth day.
(g) An agreement among the parties to settle a claim is limited to the rights of the parties and to claims then in existence; settlement of disability compensation or medical benefits shall not be a settlement of survivor benefits nor shall the settlement affect, in any way, the right of survivors to file a claim for survivor's benefits.
(h) For purposes of this section and § 702.243 the term
counsel
means any attorney admitted to the bar of any State, territory or the District of Columbia.
[50 FR 399, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4284, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.242
Information necessary for a complete settlement application.
(a) The settlement application shall be a self-sufficient document which can be evaluated without further reference to the administrative file. The application shall be in the form of a stipulation signed by all parties and shall contain a brief summary of the facts of the case to include: a description of the incident, a description of the nature of the injury to include the degree of impairment and/or disability, a description of the medical care rendered to date of settlement, and a summary of compensation paid and the compensation rate or, where benefits have not been paid, the claimant's average weekly wage.
(b) The settlement application shall contain the following:
(1) A full description of the terms of the settlement which clearly indicates, where appropriate, the amounts to be paid for compensation, medical benefits, survivor benefits and representative's fees which shall be itemized as required by § 702.132.
(2) The reason for the settlement, and the issues which are in dispute, if any.
(3) The claimant's date of birth and, in death claims, the names and birth dates of all dependents.
(4) Information on whether or not the claimant is working or is capable of working. This should include, but not be limited to, a description of the claimant's educational background and work history, as well as other factors which could impact, either favorably or unfavorably, on future employability.
(5) A current medical report which fully describes any injury related impairment as well as any unrelated conditions. This report shall indicate whether maximum medical improvement has been reached and whether further disability or medical treatment is anticipated. If the claimant has already reached maximum medical improvement, a medical report prepared at the time the employee's condition stabilized will satisfy the requirement for a current medical report. A medical report need not be submitted with agreements to settle survivor benefits unless the circumstances warrant it.
(6) A statement explaining how the settlement amount is considered adequate.
(7) If the settlement application covers medical benefits an itemization of the amount paid for medical expenses by year for the three years prior to the date of the application. An estimate of the claimant's need for future medical treatment as well as an estimate of the cost of such medical treatment shall also be submitted which indicates the inflation factor and/or the discount rate used, if any. The adjudicator may waive these requirements for good cause.
(8) Information on any collateral source available for the payment of medical expenses.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 399, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4284, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.243
Settlement application; how submitted, how approved, how disapproved, criteria.
(a) When the parties to a claim for compensation, including survivor benefits and medical benefits, agree to a settlement they must submit a complete application to the adjudicator. The application must contain all the information outlined in § 702.242 and must be sent by certified mail with return receipt requested, commercial delivery service with tracking capability that provides reliable proof of delivery to the adjudicator, or electronically through an OWCP-authorized system. Failure to submit a complete application will toll the thirty day period mentioned in section 8(i) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(i), until a complete application is received.
(b) The adjudicator must consider the settlement application within thirty days and either approve or disapprove the application. The liability of an employer/insurance carrier is not discharged until the settlement is specifically approved by a compensation order issued by the adjudicator. However, if the parties are represented by counsel, the settlement will be deemed approved unless specifically disapproved within thirty days after receipt of a complete application. This thirty day period does not begin until all the information described in § 702.242 has been submitted. The adjudicator will examine the settlement application within thirty days and must immediately serve on all parties notice of any deficiency. This notice must also indicate that the thirty day period will not commence until the deficiency is corrected.
(c) If the adjudicator disapproves a settlement application, the adjudicator must serve on all parties a written statement or order containing the reasons for disapproval. This statement must be served within thirty days of receipt of a complete application (as described in § 702.242) if the parties are represented by counsel. If the disapproval was made by a district director, any party to the settlement may request a hearing before an ALJ as provided in sections 8 and 19 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908 and 919, or an amended application may be submitted to the district director. If, following the hearing, the ALJ disapproves the settlement, the parties may: (1) Submit a new application, (2) file an appeal with the Benefits Review Board as provided in section 21 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 921, or (3) proceed with a hearing on the merits of the claim. If the application is initially
disapproved by an ALJ, the parties may (1) submit a new application or (2) proceed with a hearing on the merits of the claim.
(d) The parties may submit a settlement application solely for compensation, or solely for medical benefits or for compensation and medical benefits combined.
(e) If either portion of a combined compensation and medical benefits settlement application is disapproved the entire application is disapproved unless the parties indicate on the face of the application that they agree to settle either portion independently.
(f) When presented with a settlement, the adjudicator must review the application and determine whether, considering all of the circumstances, including, where appropriate, the probability of success if the case were formally litigated, the amount is adequate. The criteria for determining the adequacy of the settlement application will include, but not be limited to:
(1) The claimant's age, education and work history;
(2) The degree of the claimant's disability or impairment;
(3) The availability of the type of work the claimant can do;
(4) The cost and necessity of future medical treatment (where the settlement includes medical benefits).
(g) In cases being paid pursuant to a final compensation order, where no substantive issues are in dispute, a settlement amount which does not equal the present value of future compensation payments commuted, computed at the discount rate specified below, must be considered inadequate unless the parties to the settlement show that the amount is adequate. The probability of the death of the beneficiary before the expiration of the period during which he or she is entitled to compensation will be determined according to the most current United States Life Table, as developed by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, which will be updated from time to time. The discount rate will be equal to the coupon issue yield equivalent (as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury) of the average accepted auction price for the last auction of 52 weeks U.S. Treasury Bills settled immediately prior to the date of the submission of the settlement application.
[50 FR 399, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4284, Feb. 3, 1986; 60 FR 51348, Oct. 2, 1995; 80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]

# Controverted Claims
§ 702.251
Employer's controversion of the right to compensation.
Where the employer controverts the right to compensation after notice or knowledge of the injury or death, or after receipt of a written claim, he must give notice thereof, stating the reasons for controverting the right to compensation, using the form prescribed by the Director. Such notice, or answer to the claim, must be filed with the district director within 14 days from the date the employer receives notice or has knowledge of the injury or death. A copy of the notice must also be given to the claimant.
[80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.252
Action by district director upon receipt of notice of controversion.
Upon receiving the employer's notice of controversion, the district director shall forthwith commence proceedings for the adjudication of the claim in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart C of this part.

# Contested Claims
§ 702.261
Claimant's contest of actions taken by employer or carrier with respect to the claim.
Where the claimant contests an action by the employer or carrier reducing, suspending, or terminating benefits, including medical care, he should immediately notify the office of the district director who is administering the claim and set forth the facts pertinent to his complaint.
[80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.262
Action by district director upon receipt of notice of contest.
Upon receipt of the claimant's notice of contest, the district director shall forthwith commence proceedings for adjudication of the claim in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart C of this part.

# Discrimination
§ 702.271
Discrimination; against employees who bring proceedings, prohibition and penalty.
(a)(1) No employer or its duly authorized agent may discharge or in any manner discriminate against an employee as to his/her employment because that employee: (i) Has claimed or attempted to claim compensation under this Act; or (ii) has testified or is about to testify in a proceeding under this Act. To discharge or refuse to employ a person who has been adjudicated to have filed a fraudulent claim for compensation or otherwise made a false statement or misrepresentation under section 31(a)(1) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 931(a)(1), is not a violation of this section.
(2) Any employer who violates this section, and has penalties assessed for such violation after January 15, 2025, shall be liable for a penalty of not less than $2,998 or more than $14,988 to be paid (by the employer alone, and not by a carrier) to the district director for deposit in the special fund described in section 44 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944; and shall restore the employee to his or her employment along with all wages lost due to the discrimination unless the employee has ceased to be qualified to perform the duties of employment.
(b) When a district director receives a complaint from an employee alleging discrimination as defined under section 49, he or she shall notify the employer, and within five working days, initiate specific inquiry to determine all the facts and circumstances pertaining thereto. This may be accomplished by interviewing the employee, employer representatives and other parties who may have information about the matter. Interviews may be conducted by written correspondence, telephone or personal interview.
(c) If circumstances warrant, the district director may also conduct an informal conference on the issue as described in §§ 702.312 through 702.314.
(d) Any employee discriminated against is entitled to be restored to his employment and to be compensated by the employer for any loss of wages arising out of such discrimination provided that the employee is qualified to perform the duties of the employment. If it is determined that the employee has been discriminated against, the district director shall also determine whether the employee is qualified to perform the duties of the employment. The district director may use medical evidence submitted by the parties or he may arrange to have the employee examined by a physician selected by the district director. The cost of the medical examination arranged for by the district director may be charged to the special fund established by section 44, 33 U.S.C. 944.
[42 FR 45302, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 400, Jan. 3, 1985; 62 FR 53956, Oct. 17, 1997; 81 FR 43449, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5380, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 11, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 217, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2296, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2967, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2333, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2215, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1814, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1851, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 702.272
Informal recommendation by district director.
(a) If the district director determines that the employee has been discharged or suffered discrimination and is able to resume his or her duties, the district director will recommend that the employer reinstate the employee and/or make such restitution as is indicated by the circumstances of the case, including compensation for any wage loss suffered as the result of the discharge or discrimination. The district director may also assess the employer an appropriate penalty, as determined under authority vested in the district director by the Act. If the district director determines that no violation occurred he must notify the parties of his findings and the reasons for recommending that the complaint be denied. If the employer and employee accept the district director's recommendation, within 10 days it will be incorporated in an order, to be filed and served in accordance with § 702.349.
(b) If the parties do not agree to the recommendation, the district director must, within 10 days after receipt of the rejection, prepare a memorandum summarizing the disagreement, send a copy to all interested parties, and within 14 days thereafter, refer the
case to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge for hearing pursuant to § 702.317.
[42 FR 45302, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 80 FR 12929, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.273
Adjudication by Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
The Office of Administrative Law Judges is responsible for final determinations of all disputed issues connected with the discrimination complaint, including the amount of penalty to be assessed, and shall proceed with a formal hearing as described in §§ 702.331 to 702.394.
[42 FR 45302, Sept. 9, 1977]
§ 702.274
Employer's refusal to pay penalty.
In the event the employer refuses to pay the penalty assessed, the district director shall refer the complete administrative file to the Associate Director, Division of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation, for subsequent transmittal to the Associate Solicitor for Employee Benefits, with the request that appropriate legal action be taken to recover the penalty.
[42 FR 45302, Sept. 9, 1977]

# Third Party
§ 702.281
Third party action.
(a) Every person claiming benefits under this Act (or the representative) must promptly notify the employer and the district director when:
(1) A claim is made that someone other than the employer or person or persons in its employ, is liable in damages to the claimant because of the injury or death and identify such party by name and address.
(2) Legal action is instituted by the claimant or the representative against some person or party other than the employer or a person or persons in his employ, on the ground that such other person is liable in damages to the claimant on account of the compensable injury and/or death; specify the amount of damages claimed and identify the person or party by name and address.
(3) Any settlement, compromise or any adjudication of such claim has been effected and report the terms, conditions and amounts of such resolution of claim.
(b) Where the claim or legal action instituted against a third party results in a settlement agreement which is for an amount less than the compensation to which a person would be entitled under this Act, the person (or the person's representative) must obtain the prior, written approval of the settlement from the employer and the employer's carrier before the settlement is executed. Failure to do so relieves the employer and/or carrier of liability for compensation described in section 33(f) of Act, 33 U.S.C. 933(f) and for medical benefits otherwise due under section 7 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 907, regardless of whether the employer or carrier has made payments of acknowledged entitlement to benefits under the Act. The approval must be on a form provided by OWCP and must be filed, within thirty days after the settlement is entered into, with the district director who is administering the claim.
[42 FR 45303, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 400, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4284, Feb. 3, 1986; 80 FR 12930, Mar. 12, 2015]

# Report of Earnings
§ 702.285
Report of earnings.
(a) An employer, carrier or the Director (for those cases being paid from the Special Fund) may require an employee to whom it is paying compensation to submit a report on earnings from employment or self-employment. This report may not be required any more frequently than semi-annually. The report shall be made on a form prescribed by the Director and shall include all earnings from employment and self-employment and the periods for which the earnings apply. The employee must return the complete report on earnings even where he or she has no earnings to report.
(b) For these purposes the term “earnings” is defined as all monies received from any employment and includes but is not limited to wages, salaries, tips, sales commissions, fees for services provided, piecework and all revenue received from self-employment
even if the business or enterprise operated at a loss of if the profits were reinvested.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 400, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.286
Report of earnings; forfeiture of compensation.
(a) Any employee who fails to submit the report on earnings from employment or self-employment under § 702.285 or, who knowingly and willingly omits or understates any part of such earnings, shall upon a determination by the district director forfeit all right to compensation with respect to any period during which the employee was required to file such a report. The employee must return the completed report on earnings (even where he or she reports no earnings) within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt; this period may be extended for good cause, by the district director, in determining whether a violation of this requirement has occurred.
(b) Any employer or carrier who believes that a violation of paragraph (a) of this section has occurred may file a charge with the district director. The allegation shall be accompanied by evidence which includes a copy of the report, with proof of service requesting the information from the employee and clearly stating the dates for which the employee was required to report income. Where the employer/carrier is alleging an omission or understatement of earnings, it shall, in addition, present evidence of earnings by the employee during that period, including copies of checks, affidavits from employers who paid the employee earnings, receipts of income from self-employment or any other evidence showing earnings not reported or underreported for the period in question. Where the district director finds the evidence sufficient to support the charge he or she shall convene an informal conference as described in subpart C and shall issue a compensation order affiming or denying the charge and setting forth the amount of compensation for the specified period. If there is a conflict over any issue relating to this matter any party may request a formal hearing before an Administrative Law Judge as described in subpart C.
(c) Compensation forfeited under paragraph (b) of this section, if already paid, shall be recovered by a deduction from the compensation payable to the employee if any, on such schedule as determined by the district director. The district director's discretion in such cases extends only to rescheduling repayment by crediting future compensation and not to whether and in what amounts compensation is forfeited. For this purpose, the district director shall consider the employee's essential expenses for living, income from whatever source, and assets, including cash, savings and checking accounts, stocks, bonds, and other securities.
[50 FR 400, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Subpart C—Adjudication Procedures

# General
§ 702.301
Scope of this subpart.
The regulations in this subpart govern the adjudication of claims in which the employer has filed a notice of controversion under § 702.251, or the employee has filed notice of contest under § 702.261. In the vast majority of cases, the problem giving rise to the controversy results from misunderstandings, clerical or mechanical errors, or mistakes of fact or law. Such problems seldom require resolution through formal hearings, with the attendant production of expert witnesses. Accordingly, by § 702.311
et seq.,
the district directors are empowered to amicably and promptly resolve such problems by informal procedures. Where there is a genuine dispute of fact or law which cannot be so disposed of informally, resort must be had to the formal hearing procedures as set forth beginning at § 702.331. Supplementary compensation orders, modifications, and interlocutory matters are governed by regulations beginning with § 702.371. Thereafter, appeals from compensation orders are discussed beginning with § 702.391 (the regulations of the Benefits Review Board are set forth in full in part 802 of this title).

# Action by District Directors
§ 702.311
Handling of claims matters by district directors; informal conferences.
The district director is empowered to resolve disputes with respect to claims in a manner designed to protect the rights of the parties and also to resolve such disputes at the earliest practicable date. This will generally be accomplished by informal discussions by telephone or by conferences at the district director's office. Some cases will be handled by written correspondence. The regulations governing informal conferences at the district director's office with all parties present are set forth below. When handling claims by telephone, or at the office with only one of the parties, the district director and his staff shall make certain that a full written record be made of the matters discussed and that such record be placed in the administrative file. When claims are handled by correspondence, copies of all communications shall constitute the administrative file.
§ 702.312
Informal conferences; called by and held before whom.
Informal conferences shall be called by the district director or his designee assigned or reassigned the case and held before that same person, unless such person is absent or unavailable. When so assigned, the designee shall perform the duties set forth below assigned to the district director, except that a compenstion order following an agreement shall be issued only by a person so designated by the Director to perform such duty.
[42 FR 45303, Sept. 9, 1977]
§ 702.313
Informal conferences; how called; when called.
Informal conferences may be called upon not less than 10 days' notice to the parties, unless the parties agree to meet at an earlier date. The notice may be given by telephone, but shall be confirmed by use of a written notice on a form prescribed by the Director. The notice shall indicate the date, time and place of the conference, and shall also specify the matters to be discussed. For good cause shown conferences may be rescheduled. A copy of such notice shall be placed in the administrative file.
§ 702.314
Informal conferences; how conducted; where held.
(a) No stenographic report shall be taken at informal conferences and no witnesses shall be called. The district director shall guide the discussion toward the achievement of the purpose of such conference, recommending courses of action where there are disputed issues, and giving the parties the benefit of his experience and specialized knowledge in the field of workmen's compensation.
(b) Conferences generally shall be held at the district director's office. However, such conferences may be held at any place which, in the opinion of the district director, will be of greater convenience to the parties or to their representatives.
§ 702.315
Conclusion of conference; agreement on all matters with respect to the claim.
(a) Following an informal conference at which agreement is reached on all issues, the district director must (within 10 days after conclusion of the conference), embody the agreement in a memorandum or within 30 days issue a formal compensation order, to be filed and served in accordance with § 702.349. If either party requests that a formal compensation order be issued, the district director must, within 30 days of such request, prepare, file, and serve such order in accordance with § 702.349. Where the problem was of such nature that it was resolved by telephone discussion or by exchange of written correspondence, the district director must prepare a memorandum or order setting forth the terms agreed upon and notify the parties either by telephone or in writing, as appropriate. In either instance, when the employer or carrier has agreed to pay, reinstate or increase monetary compensation benefits, or to restore or appropriately change medical care benefits, such action must be commenced immediately upon becoming aware of the agreement, and without awaiting receipt of the memorandum or the formal compensation order.
(b) Where there are several conferences or discussions, the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply until the last conference. The district director must, however, prepare and place in his administrative file a short, succinct memorandum of each preceding conference or discussion.
[80 FR 12930, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.316
Conclusion of conference; no agreement on all matters with respect to the claim.
When it becomes apparent during the course of the informal conference that agreement on all issues cannot be reached, the district director shall bring the conference to a close, shall evaluate all evidence available to him or her, and after such evaluation shall prepare a memorandum of conference setting forth all outstanding issues, such facts or allegations as appear material and his or her recommendations and rationale for resolution of such issues. Copies of this memorandum shall then be sent to each of the parties or their representatives, who shall then have 14 days within which to signify in writing to the district director whether they agree or disagree with his or her recommendations. If they agree, the district director shall proceed as in § 702.315(a). If they disagree (Caution: See § 702.134), then the district director may schedule such further conference or conferences as, in his or her opinion, may bring about agreement; if he or she is satisfied that any further conference would be unproductive, or if any party has requested a hearing, the district director shall prepare the case for transfer to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge (See § 702.317, §§ 702.331-702.351).
[42 FR 42551, Aug. 23, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 51348, Oct. 2, 1995]
§ 702.317
Preparation and transfer of the case for hearing.
A case is prepared for transfer in the following manner:
(a) The district director will furnish each of the parties or their representatives with a copy of a prehearing statement form.
(b) Each party must, within 21 days after receipt of such form, complete it and return it to the district director and serve copies on all other parties. Extensions of time for good cause may be granted by the district director.
(c) Upon receipt of the completed forms, the district director, after checking them for completeness and after any further conferences that, in his or her opinion, are warranted, will transmit them to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge by letter of transmittal together with all available evidence which the parties intend to submit at the hearings (exclusive of X-rays, slides and other materials not suitable for transmission which may be offered into evidence at the time of the hearing); the materials transmitted must not include any recommendations expressed or memoranda prepared by the district director pursuant to § 702.316.
(d) If the completed pre-hearing statement forms raise new or additional issues not previously considered by the district director or indicate that material evidence will be submitted that could reasonably have been made available to the district director before he or she prepared the last memorandum of conference, the district director will transfer the case to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge only after having considered such issues or evaluated such evidence or both and having issued an additional memorandum of conference in conformance with § 702.316.
(e) If a party fails to complete or return his or her pre-hearing statement form within the time allowed, the district director may, at his or her discretion, transmit the case without that party's form. However, such transmittal must include a statement from the district director setting forth the circumstances causing the failure to include the form, and such party's failure to submit a pre-hearing statement form may, subject to rebuttal at the formal hearing, be considered by the administrative law judge, to the extent intransigence is relevant, in subsequent rulings on motions which may be made in the course of the formal hearing.
[80 FR 12930, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.318
The record; what constitutes; nontransferability of the administrative file.
For the purpose of any further proceedings under the Act, the formal record of proceedings shall consist of the hearing record made before the administrative law judge (see § 702.344). When transferring the case for hearing pursuant to § 702.317, the district director shall not transfer the administrative file under any circumstances.
§ 702.319
Obtaining documents from the administrative file for reintroduction at formal hearings.
Whenever any party considers any document in the administrative file essential to any further proceedings under the Act, it is the responsibility of such party to obtain such document from the district director and reintroduce it for the record before the administrative law judge. The type of document that may be obtained will be limited to documents previously submitted to the district director, including documents or forms with respect to notices, claims, controversions, contests, progress reports, medical services or supplies, etc. The work products of the district director or his staff will not be subject to retrieval. The procedure for obtaining documents will be for the requesting party to inform the district director in writing of the documents he wishes to obtain, specifying them with particularity. Upon receipt, the district director must promptly forward a copy of the requested materials to the requesting party. A copy of the letter of request and a statement of whether it has been satisfied must be kept in the case file.
[80 FR 12930, Mar. 12, 2015]

# Special Fund
§ 702.321
Procedures for determining applicability of section 8(f) of the Act.
(a)
Application: filing, service, contents.
(1) An employer or insurance carrier which seeks to invoke the provisions of section 8(f) of the Act must request limitation of its liability and file a fully documented application with the district director. A fully documented application must contain a specific description of the pre-existing condition relied upon as constituting an existing permanent partial disability and the reasons for believing that the claimant's permanent disability after the injury would be less were it not for the pre-existing permanent partial disability or that the death would not have ensued but for that disability. These reasons must be supported by medical evidence as specified in this paragraph. The application must also contain the basis for the assertion that the pre-existing condition relied upon was manifest in the employer and documentary medical evidence relied upon in support of the request for section 8(f) relief. This medical evidence must include, but not be limited to, a current medical report establishing the extent of all impairments and the date of maximum medical improvement. If the claimant has already reached maximum medical improvement, a report prepared at that time will satisfy the requirement for a current medical report. If the current disability is total, the medical report must explain why the disability is not due solely to the second injury. If the current disability is partial, the medical report must explain why the disability is not due solely to the second injury and why the resulting disability is materially and substantially greater than that which would have resulted from the subsequent injury alone. If the injury is loss of hearing, the pre-existing hearing loss must be documented by an audiogram which complies with the requirements of § 702.441. If the claim is for survivor's benefits, the medical report must establish that the death was not due solely to the second injury. Any other evidence considered necessary for consideration of the request for section 8(f) relief must be submitted when requested by the district director or Director.
(2) If claim is being paid by the special fund and the claimant dies, an employer need not reapply for section 8(f) relief. However, survivor benefits will not be paid until it has been established that the death was due to the accepted injury and the eligible survivors have been identified. The district director will issue a compensation order
after a claim has been filed and entitlement of the survivors has been verified. Since the employer remains a party in interest to the claim, a compensation order will not be issued without the agreement of the employer.
(b)
Application: Time for filing.
(1) A request for section 8(f) relief should be made as soon as the permanency of the claimant's condition becomes known or is an issue in dispute. This could be when benefits are first paid for permanent disability, or at an informal conference held to discuss the permanency of the claimant's condition. Where the claim is for death benefits, the request should be made as soon as possible after the date of death. Along with the request for section 8(f) relief, the applicant must also submit all the supporting documentation required by this section, described in paragraph (a) of this section. Where possible, this documentation should accompany the request, but may be submitted separately, in which case the district director must, at the time of the request, fix a date for submission of the fully documented application. The date must be fixed as follows:
(i) Where notice is given to all parties that permanency will be an issue at an informal conference, the fully documented application must be submitted at or before the conference. For these purposes, notice means when the issue of permanency is noted on the form LS-141, Notice of Informal Conference. All parties are required to list issues reasonably anticipated to be discussed at the conference when the initial request for a conference is made and to notify all parties of additional issues which arise during the period before the conference is actually held.
(ii) Where the issue of permanency is first raised at the informal conference and could not have reasonably been anticipated by the parties prior to the conference, the district director must adjourn the conference and establish the date by which the fully documented application must be submitted and so notify the employer/carrier. The date will be set by the district director after reviewing the circumstances of the case.
(2) At the request of the employer or insurance carrier, and for good cause, the district director, at his/her discretion, may grant an extension of the date for submission of the fully documented application. In fixing the date for submission of the application under circumstances other than described above or in considering any request for an extension of the date for submitting the application, the district director must consider all the circumstances of the case, including but not limited to: Whether the claimant is being paid compensation and the hardship to the claimant of delaying referral of the case to the Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ); the complexity of the issues and the availability of medical and other evidence to the employer; the length of time the employer was or should have been aware that permanency is an issue; and, the reasons listed in support of the request. If the employer/carrier requested a specific date, the reasons for selection of that date will also be considered. Neither the date selected for submission of the fully documented application nor any extension therefrom can go beyond the date the case is referred to the OALJ for formal hearing.
(3) Where the claimant's condition has not reached maximum medical improvement and no claim for permanency is raised by the date the case is referred to the OALJ, an application need not be submitted to the district director to preserve the employer's right to later seek relief under section 8(f) of the Act. In all other cases, failure to submit a fully documented application by the date established by the district director will be an absolute defense to the liability of the special fund. This defense is an affirmative defense which must be raised and pleaded by the Director. The absolute defense will not be raised where permanency was not an issue before the district director. In all other cases, where permanency has been raised, the failure of an employer to submit a timely and fully documented application for section 8(f) relief will not prevent the district director, at his/her discretion, from considering the claim for compensation and transmitting the case for formal hearing. The failure of an employer to present a timely and fully documented application for section 8(f) relief may
be excused only where the employer could not have reasonably anticipated the liability of the special fund prior to the consideration of the claim by the district director. Relief under section 8(f) is not available to an employer who fails to comply with section 32(a) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 932(a).
(c)
Application: Approval, disapproval.
If all the evidence required by paragraph (a) of this section was submitted with the application for section 8(f) relief and the facts warrant relief under this section, the district director must award such relief after concurrence by the Associate Director, DLHWC, or his or her designee. If the district director or the Associate Director or his or her designee finds that the facts do not warrant relief under section 8(f) the district director must advise the employer of the grounds for the denial. The application for section 8(f) relief may then be considered by an administrative law judge. When a case is transmitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges the district director must also attach a copy of the application for section 8(f) relief submitted by the employer, and notwithstanding § 702.317(c), the district director's denial of the application.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[51 FR 4285, Feb. 3, 1986, as amended at 80 FR 12930, Mar. 12, 2015]

# Formal Hearings
§ 702.331
Formal hearings; procedure initiating.
Formal hearings are initiated by transmitting to the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge the pre-hearing statement forms, the available evidence which the parties intend to submit at the formal hearing, and the letter of transmittal from the district director as provided in § 702.316 and § 702.317.
[42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.332
Formal hearings; how conducted.
Formal hearings shall be conducted by the administrative law judge assigned the case by the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 554
et seq.
All hearings shall be transcribed.
§ 702.333
Formal hearings; parties.
(a) The necessary parties for a formal hearing are the claimant and the employer or insurance carrier, and the administrative law judge assigned the case.
(b) The Solicitor of Labor or his designee may appear and participate in any formal hearing held pursuant to these regulations on behalf of the Director as an interested party.
§ 702.334
Formal hearings; representatives of parties.
The claimant and the employer or carrier may be represented by persons of their choice.
§ 702.335
Formal hearings; notice.
On a form prescribed for this purpose, the Office of the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall notify the parties (See § 702.333) of the place and time of the formal hearing not less than 30 days in advance thereof.
[42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.336
Formal hearings; new issues.
(a) If, during the course of the formal hearing, the evidence presented warrants consideration of an issue or issues not previously considered, the hearing may be expanded to include the new issue. If in the opinion of the administrative law judge the new issue requires additional time for preparation, the parties shall be given a reasonable time within which to prepare for it. If the new issue arises from evidence that has not been considered by the district director, and such evidence is likely to resolve the case without the need for a formal hearing, the administrative law judge may remand the case to the district director for his or her evaluation and recommendation pursuant to, § 702.316.
(b) At any time prior to the filing of the compensation order in the case, the administrative law judge may in his discretion, upon the application of a party or upon his own motion, give notice that he will consider any new
issue. The parties shall be given not less than 10 days' notice of the hearing on such new issue. The parties may stipulate that the issue may be heard at an earlier time and shall proceed to a hearing on the new issue in the same manner as on an issue initially considered.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.337
Formal hearings; change of time or place for hearings; postponements.
(a) Except for good cause shown, hearings shall be held at convenient locations not more than 75 miles from the claimant's residence.
(b) Once a formal hearing has been scheduled, continuances shall not be granted except in cases of extreme hardship or where attendance of a party or his or her representative is mandated at a previously scheduled judicial proceeding. Unless the ground for the request arises thereafter, requests for continuances must be received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge at least 10 days before the scheduled hearing date, must be served upon the other parties and must specify the extreme hardship or previously scheduled judicial proceeding claimed.
(c) The Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned to the case may change the time and place of the hearing, or temporarily adjourn a hearing, on his own motion or for good cause shown by a party. The parties shall be given not less than 10 days' notice of the new time and place of the hearing, unless they agree to such change without notice.
[42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.338
Formal hearings; general procedures.
All hearings shall be attended by the parties or their representatives and such other persons as the administrative law judge deems necessary and proper. The administrative law judge shall inquire fully into the matters at issue and shall receive in evidence the testimony of witnesses and any documents which are relevant and material to such matters. If the administrative law judge believes that there is relevant and material evidence available which has not been presented at the hearing, he may adjourn the hearing or, at any time, prior to the filing of the compensation order, reopen the hearing for the receipt of such evidence. The order in which evidence and allegations shall be presented and the procedures at the hearings generally, except as these regulations otherwise expressly provide, shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge and of such nature as to afford the parties a reasonable opportunity for a fair hearing.
§ 702.339
Formal hearings; evidence.
In making an investigation or inquiry or conducting a hearing, the administrative law judge shall not be bound by common law or statutory rules of evidence or by technical or formal rules of procedure, except as provided by 5 U.S.C. 554 and these regulations; but may make such investigation or inquiry or conduct such hearing in such a manner as to best ascertain the rights of the parties.
§ 702.340
Formal hearings; witnesses.
(a) Witnesses at the hearing shall testify under oath or affirmation. The administrative law judge may examine the witnesses and shall allow the parties or their representatives to do so.
(b) No person shall be required to attend as a witness in any proceeding before an administrative law judge at a place more than 100 miles from his place of residence, unless his lawful mileage and fees for one day's attendance shall be paid or tendered to him in advance of the hearing date.
§ 702.341
Formal hearings; depositions; interrogatories.
The testimony of any witness, including any party represented by counsel, may be taken by deposition or interrogatory according to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as supplemented by local rules of practice for the Federal district court for the judicial district in which the case is pending. However, such depositions or interrogatories must be completed within reasonable times to be fixed by the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the
administrative law judge assigned to the case.
[42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.342
Formal hearings; witness fees.
Witnesses summoned in a formal hearing before an administrative law judge or whose depositions are taken shall receive the same fees and mileage as witnesses in courts of the United States (33 U.S.C. 925).
§ 702.343
Formal hearings; oral argument and written allegations.
Any party upon request shall be allowed a reasonable time for presentation of oral argument and shall be permitted to file a pre-hearing brief or other written statement of fact or law. A copy of any such pre-hearing brief or other written statement shall be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned to the case before or during the proceeding at which evidence is submitted to the administrative law judge and shall be served upon each other party. Post-hearing briefs will not be permitted except at the request of the administrative law judge or upon averment on the record of a party that the case presents a specific novel or difficult legal or factual issue (or issues) that cannot be adequately addressed in oral summation. When permitted, any such brief shall be limited to the issue or issues specified by the administrative law judge or by the party in his or her averment and shall be due from any party desiring to address such issue or issues within 15 days of the conclusion of the proceeding at which evidence is submitted to the administrative law judge. Enlargement of the time for filing such briefs shall be granted only if the administrative law judge is persuaded that the brief will be helpful to him or her and that the enlargement granted will not delay decision of the case.
[42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.344
Formal hearings; record of hearing.
All formal hearings shall be open to the public and shall be stenographically reported. All evidence upon which the administrative law judge relies for his final decision shall be contained in the transcript of testimony either directly or by appropriate reference. All medical reports, exhibits, and any other pertinent document or record, in whole or in material part, shall be incorporated into the record either by reference or as an appendix.
§ 702.345
Formal hearings; consolidated issues; consolidated cases.
(a) When one or more additional issues are raised by the administrative law judge pursuant to § 702.336, such issues may, in the discretion of the administrative law judge, be consolidated for hearing and decision with other issues pending before him.
(b) When two or more cases are transferred for formal hearings and have common questions of law or which arose out of a common accident, the Chief Administrative Law Judge may consolidate such cases for hearing.
§ 702.346
Formal hearings; waiver of right to appear.
If all parties waive their right to appear before the administrative law judge or to present evidence or argument personally or by representative, it shall not be necessary for the administrative law judge to give notice of and conduct an oral hearing. A waiver of the right to appear and present evidence and allegations as to facts and law shall be made in writing and filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge. Where such a waiver has been filed by all parties, and they do not appear before the administrative law judge personally or by representative, the administrative law judge shall make a record of the relevant written evidence submitted by the parties, together with any pleadings they may submit with respect to the issues in the case. Such documents shall be considered as all of the evidence in the case and the decision shall be based on them.
§ 702.347
Formal hearings; termination.
(a) Formal hearings are normally terminated upon the conclusion of the proceeding at which evidence is submitted to the administrative law judge.
(b) In exceptional cases the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned to the case may, in his or her discretion, extend the time for official termination of the hearing.
[42 FR 42552, Aug. 23, 1977]
§ 702.348
Formal hearings; preparation of final decision and order; content.
Within 20 days after the official termination of the hearing as defined by § 702.347, the administrative law judge shall have prepared a final decision and order, in the form of a compensation order, with respect to the claim, making an award to the claimant or rejecting the claim. The compensation order shall contain appropriate findings of facts and conclusions of law with respect thereto, and shall be concluded with one or more paragraphs containing the order of the administrative law judge, his signature, and the date of issuance.
§ 702.349
Formal hearings; filing and mailing of compensation orders; waiver of service; disposition of transcripts.
(a) An administrative law judge must, within 20 days after the official termination of the hearing, deliver by mail, or otherwise, to the district director that administered the claim, the transcript of the hearing, other documents or pleadings filed with him with respect to the claim, and his signed compensation order. Upon receipt thereof, the district director, being the official custodian of all records with respect to claims he administers, must formally date and file the transcript, pleadings, and compensation order in his office. Such filing must be accomplished by the close of business on the next succeeding working day, and the district director must, on the same day as the filing was accomplished, serve a copy of the compensation order on the parties and on the representatives of the parties, if any. Service on the parties and their representatives must be made by certified mail unless a party has previously waived service by this method under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) All parties and their representatives are entitled to be served with compensation orders via registered or certified mail. Parties and their representatives may waive this right and elect to be served with compensation orders electronically by filing the appropriate waiver form with the district director responsible for administering the claim. To waive service by registered or certified mail, employers, insurance carriers, and their representatives must file form LS-801 (Waiver of Service by Registered or Certified Mail for Employers and/or Insurance Carriers), and claimants and their representatives must file form LS-802 (Waiver of Service by Registered or Certified Mail for Claimants and/or Authorized Representatives). A signature on a waiver form represents a knowing and voluntary waiver of that party's or representative's right to receive compensation orders via registered or certified mail.
(1) Waiving parties and representatives must provide a valid electronic address on the waiver form.
(2) Parties and representatives must submit a separate waiver form for each case in which they intend to waive the right to certified or registered mail service.
(3) A representative may not sign a waiver form on a party's behalf.
(4) All compensation orders issued in a claim after receipt of the waiver form will be sent to the electronic address provided on the waiver form. Any changes to the address must be made by submitting another waiver form. Individuals may revoke their service waiver at any time by submitting a new waiver form that specifies that the service waiver is being revoked.
(5) If it appears that service in the manner selected by the individual has not been effective, the district director will serve the individual by certified mail.
[80 FR 12931, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.350
Finality of compensation orders.
Compensation orders shall become effective when filed in the office of the district director, and unless proceedings for suspension or setting aside of such orders are instituted within 30 days of such filing, shall become final at the expiration of the 30th day after
such filing, as provided in section 21 of the Act 33 U.S.C. 921. If any compensation payable under the terms of such order is not paid within 10 days after it becomes due, section 14(f) of the Act requires that there be added to such unpaid compensation an amount equal to 20 percent thereof which shall be paid at the same time as, but in addition to, such compensation unless review of the compensation order is had as provided in such section 21 and an order staying payment has been issued by the Benefits Review Board or the reviewing court.
§ 702.351
Withdrawal of controversion of issues set for formal hearing; effect.
Whenever a party withdraws his controversion of the issues set for a formal hearing, the administrative law judge shall halt the proceedings upon receipt from said party of a signed statement to that effect and forthwith notify the district director who shall then proceed to dispose of the case as provided for in § 702.315.

# Interlocutory Matters, Supplementary Orders, and Modifications
§ 702.371
Interlocutory matters.
Compensation orders shall not be made or filed with respect to interlocutory matters of a procedural nature arising during the pendency of a compensation case.
§ 702.372
Supplementary compensation orders.
(a) In any case in which the employer or insurance carrier is in default in the payment of compensation due under any award of compensation, for a period of 30 days after the compensation is due and payable, the person to whom such compensation is payable may, within 1 year after such default, apply in writing to the district director for a supplementary compensation order declaring the amount of the default. Upon receipt of such application, the district director will institute proceedings with respect to such application as if such application were an original claim for compensation, and the matter will be disposed of as provided for in § 702.315, or if agreement on the issue is not reached, then as in §§ 702.316 through 702.319.
(b) If, after disposition of the application as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, a supplementary compensation order is entered declaring the amount of the default, which amount may be the whole of the award notwithstanding that only one or more installments is in default, a copy of such supplementary order must be filed and served in accordance with § 702.349. Thereafter, the applicant may obtain and file with the clerk of the Federal district court for the judicial district where the injury occurred or the district in which the employer has his principal place of business or maintains an office, a certified copy of said order and may seek enforcement thereof as provided for by section 18 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 918.
[80 FR 12932, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.373
Modification of awards.
(a) Upon his/her own initiative, or upon application of any party in interest (including an employer or carrier which has been granted relief under section 8(f) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 908(f)), the district director may review any compensation case (including a case under which payments are made pursuant to section 44(i) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944(i)) in accordance with the procedure in subpart C of this part, and after such review of the case under § 702.315, or review at formal hearings under the regulations governing formal hearings in subpart C of this part, file a new compensation order terminating, continuing, reinstating, increasing or decreasing such compensation, or awarding compensation. Such new order shall not affect any compensation previously paid, except that an award increasing the compensation rate may be made retroactive from the date of injury, and if any part of the compensation due or to become due is unpaid, an award decreasing the compensation rate may be made effective from the date of the injury, and any payment made prior thereto in excess of such decreased rate shall be deducted from any unpaid compensation, in such manner and by such method as may be determined by the district director or the
administrative law judge. Settlements cannot be modified.
(b) Review of a compensation case under this section may be made at any time prior to 1 year after the date of the last payment of compensation, whether or not a compensation order has been issued, or at any time prior to 1 year after the rejection of a claim.
(c) Review of a compensation case may be had only for the reason that there is a change in conditions or that there was a mistake in the determination of facts.
(d) If the investigation, described in § 702.148(c), discloses a change in conditions and the employer or insurance carrier intends to pursue modification of the award of compensation the district director and claimant shall be notified through an informal conference. At the conclusion of the informal conference the district director shall issue a recommendation either for or against the modification. This recommendation shall also be sent to the Associate Director, Division of Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation (DLHWC) for a determination on whether or not to participate in the modification proceeding on behalf of the special fund. Lack of concurrence of the Associate Director, DLHWC or lack of participation by a representative of the special fund shall not be a bar to the modification proceeding.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 401, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Appeals
§ 702.391
Appeals; where.
Appeals may be taken to the Benefits Review Board, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, D.C. 20210, by filing a notice of appeals with the office of the district director for the compensation district in which the decision or order appealed from was filed and by submitting to the Board a petition for review of such decision or order, in accordance with the provisions of part 802 of this title 20.
§ 702.392
Appeals; what may be appealed.
An appeal raising a substantial question of law or fact may be taken from a decision with respect to a claim under the Act. Such appeals may be taken from compensation orders when they have been filed as provided for in § 702.349.
§ 702.393
Appeals; time limitations.
The notice of appeal (see § 702.391) shall be filed with the district director within 30 days of the filing of the decision or order complained of, as defined and described in §§ 802.205 and 802.206 of this title. A petition for review of the decision or order is required to be filed within 30 days after receipt of the Board's acknowledgment of the notice of appeal, as provided in § 802.210 of this title.
§ 702.394
Appeals; procedure.
The procedure for appeals to the Benefits Review Board shall be as provided by the Board in its Rules of Practice and Procedure, set forth in part 802 of this title.

# Subpart D—Medical Care and Supervision
§ 702.401
Medical care defined.
(a) Medical care shall include medical, surgical, and other attendance or treatment, nursing and hospital services, laboratory, X-ray and other technical services, medicines, crutches, or other apparatus and prosthetic devices, and any other medical service or supply, including the reasonable and necessary cost of travel incident thereto, which is recognized as appropriate by the medical profession for the care and treatment of the injury or disease.
(b) An employee may rely on treatment by prayer or spiritual means alone, in accordance with the tenets and practice of a recognized church or religious denomination, by an accredited practitioner of such recognized church or religious denomination, and nursing services rendered in accordance with such tenets and practice without loss or diminution of compensation or benefits under the Act. For purposes of this section, a recognized church or religious denomination shall be any religious organization: (1) That is recognized by the Social Security Administration for purposes of reimbursements for treatment under Medicare and Medicaid or (2) that is
recognized by the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of tax exempt status.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.402
Employer's duty to furnish; duration.
It is the duty of the employer to furnish appropriate medical care (as defined in § 702.401(a)) for the employee's injury, and for such period as the nature of the injury or the process of recovery may require.
[50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.403
Employee's right to choose physician; limitations.
The employee shall have the right to choose his/her attending physician from among those authorized by the Director, OWCP, to furnish such care and treatment, except those physicians included on the Secretary's list of debarred physicians. In determining the choice of a physician, consideration must be given to availability, the employee's condition and the method and means of transportation. Generally 25 miles from the place of injury, or the employee's home is a reasonable distance to travel, but other pertinent factors must also be taken into consideration.
[50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.404
Physician defined.
The term
physician
includes doctors of medicine (MD), surgeons, podiatrists, dentists, clinical psychologists, optometrists, chiropractors, and osteopathic practitioners within the scope of their practice as defined by State law. The term includes chiropractors only to the extent that their reimbursable services are limited to treatment consisting of manual manipulation of the spine to correct a subluxation shown by X-ray or clinical findings. Physicians defined in this part may interpret their own X-rays. All physicians in these categories are authorized by the Director to render medical care under the Act. Naturopaths, faith healers, and other practitioners of the healing arts which are not listed herein are not included within the term “physician” as used in this part.
[42 FR 45303, Sept. 9, 1977]
§ 702.405
Selection of physician; emergencies.
Whenever the nature of the injury is such that immediate medical care is required and the injured employee is unable to select a physician, the employer shall select a physician. Thereafter the employee may change physicians when he is able to make a selection. Such changes shall be made upon obtaining written authorization from the employer or, if consent is withheld, from the district director. The Director will direct reimbursement of medical claims for services rendered by physicians or health care providers who are on the list of those excluded from providing care under the Act, if such services were rendered in an emergency. (See §§ 702.417 and 702.435(b)).
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.406
Change of physicians; non-emergencies.
(a) Whenever the employee has made his initial, free choice of an attending physician, he may not thereafter change physicians without the prior written consent of the employer (or carrier) or the district director. Such consent shall be given in cases where an employee's initial choice was not of a specialist whose services are necessary for, and appropriate to, the proper care and treatment of the compensable injury or disease. In all other cases, consent may be given upon a showing of good cause for change.
(b) The district director for the appropriate compensation district may order a change of physicians or hospitals when such a change is found to be necessary or desirable or where the fees charged exceed those prevailing within the community for the same or similar services or exceed the provider's customary charges.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.407
Supervision of medical care.
The Director, OWCP, through the district directors and their designees,
shall actively supervise the medical care of an injured employee covered by the Act. Such supervision shall include:
(a) The requirement that periodic reports on the medical care being rendered be filed in the office of the district director, the frequency thereof being determined by order of the district director or sound judgment of the attending physician as the nature of the injury may dictate;
(b) The determination of the necessity, character and sufficiency of any medical care furnished or to be furnished the employee, including whether the charges made by any medical care provider exceed those permitted under the Act;
(c) The determination of whether a change of physicians, hospitals or other persons or locales providing treatment should be made or is necessary;
(d) The further evaluation of medical questions arising in any case under the Act, with respect to the nature and extent of the covered injury, and the medical care required therefor.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.408
Evaluation of medical questions; impartial specialists.
In any case in which medical questions arise with respect to the appropriate diagnosis, extent, effect of, appropriate treatment, and the duration of any such care or treatment, for an injury covered by the Act, the Director, OWCP, through the district directors having jurisdiction, shall have the power to evaluate such questions by appointing one or more especially qualified physicians to examine the employee, or in the case of death to make such inquiry as may be appropriate to the facts and circumstances of the case. The physician or physicians, including appropriate consultants, should report their findings with respect to the questions raised as expeditiously as possible. Upon receipt of such report, action appropriate therewith shall be taken.
§ 702.409
Evaluation of medical questions; results disputed.
Any party who is dissatisfied with such report may request a review or reexamination of the employee by one or more different physicians employed by or selected by the Director, and such review or reexamination shall be granted unless it is found that it is clearly unwarranted. Such review shall be completed within 2 weeks from the date ordered unless it is impossible to complete the review and render a report thereon within such time period. Upon receipt of the report of this additional review and reexamination, such action as may be appropriate shall forthwith be taken.
§ 702.410
Duties of employees with respect to special examinations.
(a) For any special examination required of an employee by §§ 702.408 and 702.409, the employee shall submit to such examination at such place as is designated in the order to report, but the place so selected shall be reasonably convenient for the employee.
(b) Where an employee fails to submit to an examination required by §§ 702.408 and 702.409, the district director or administrative law judge may order that no compensation otherwise payable shall be paid for any period during which the employee refuses to submit to such examination unless circumstances justified the refusal.
(c) Where an employee unreasonably refuses to submit to medical or surgical treatment, or to an examination by a physician selected by the employer, the district director or administrative law judge may by order suspend the payment of further compensation during such time as the refusal continues. Except that refusal to submit to medical treatment because of adherence to the tenets of a recognized church or religious denomination as described in § 702.401(b) shall not cause the suspension of compensation.
[42 FR 45303, Sept. 9, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 402, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4286, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.411
Special examinations; nature of impartiality of specialists.
(a) The special examinations required by § 702.408 shall be accomplished in a
manner designed to preclude prejudgment by the impartial examiner. No physician previously connected with the case shall be present, nor may any other physician selected by the employer, carrier, or employee be present. The impartial examiner may be made aware, by any party or by the OWCP, of the opinions, reports, or conclusions of any prior examining physician with respect to the nature and extent of the impairment, its cause, or its effect upon the wage-earning capacity of the injured employee, if the district director determines that, for good cause, such opinions, reports, or conclusions shall be made available. Upon request, any party shall be given a copy of all materials made available to the impartial examiner.
(b) The impartiality of the specialists shall not be considered to have been compromised if the district director deems it advisable to, and does, apprise the specialist by memorandum of those undisputed facts pertaining to the nature of the employee's employment, of the nature of the injury, of the post-injury employment activity, if any, and of any other facts which are not disputed and are deemed pertinent to the type of injury and/or the type of examination being conducted.
(c) No physician selected to perform impartial examinations shall be, or shall have been for a period of 2 years prior to the examination, an employee of an insurance carrier or self-insured employer, or who has accepted or participated in any fee from an insurance carrier or self-insured employer, unless the parties in interest agree thereto.
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 45303, Sept. 9, 1977]
§ 702.412
Special examinations; costs chargeable to employer or carrier.
(a) The Director or his designee ordering the special examination shall have the power, in the exercise of his discretion, to charge the cost of the examination or review to the employer, to the insurance carrier, or to the special fund established by section 44 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944.
(b) The Director or his designee may also order the employer or the insurance carrier to provide the employee with the services of an attendant, where the district director considers such services necessary, because the employee is totally blind, has lost the use of both hands, or both feet or is paralyzed and unable to walk, or because of other disability making the employee so helpless as to require constant attendance in the discretion of the district director. Fees payable for such services shall be in accord with the provisions of § 702.413.
[42 FR 45303, Sept. 9, 1977]
§ 702.413
Fees for medical services; prevailing community charges.
All fees charged by medical care providers for persons covered by this Act shall be limited to such charges for the same or similar care (including supplies) as prevails in the community in which the medical care provider is located and shall not exceed the customary charges of the medical care provider for the same or similar services. Where a dispute arises concerning the amount of a medical bill, the Director shall determine the prevailing community rate using the OWCP Medical Fee Schedule (as described in 20 CFR 10.805
through 10.810
) to the extent appropriate, and where not appropriate, may use other state or federal fee schedules. The opinion of the Director that a charge by a medical care provider disputed under the provisions of section 702.414 exceeds the charge which prevails in the community in which said medical care provider is located shall constitute sufficient evidence to warrant further proceedings pursuant to section 702.414 and to permit the Director to direct the claimant to select another medical provider for care to the claimant.
[60 FR 51348, Oct. 2, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 702.414
Fees for medical services; unresolved disputes on prevailing charges.
(a) The Director may, upon written complaint of an interested party, or upon the Director's own initiative, investigate any medical care provider or any fee for medical treatment, services, or supplies that appears to exceed prevailing community charges for similar treatment, services or supplies or the provider's customary charges.
The OWCP medical fee schedule (see section 702.413) shall be used by the Director, where appropriate, to determine the prevailing community charges for a medical procedure by a physician or hospital (to the extent such procedure is covered by the OWCP fee schedule). The Director's investigation may initially be conducted informally through contact of the medical care provider by the district director. If this informal investigation is unsuccessful further proceedings may be undertaken. These proceedings may include, but not be limited to: an informal conference involving all interested parties; agency interrogatories to the pertinent medical care provider; and issuance of subpoenas duces tecum for documents having a bearing on the dispute.
(1) A claim by the provider that the OWCP fee schedule does not represent the prevailing community rate will be considered only where the following circumstances are presented:
(i) where the actual procedure performed was incorrectly identified by medical procedure code;
(ii) that the presence of a severe or concomitant medical condition made treatment especially difficult;
(iii) the provider possessed unusual qualifications (board certification in a specialty is not sufficient evidence in itself of unusual qualifications); or
(iv) the provider or service is not one covered by the OWCP fee schedule as described by 20 CFR 10.805
through 10.810.
(2) The circumstances listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are the only ones which will justify reevaluation of the amount calculated under the OWCP fee schedule.
(b) The failure of any medical care provider to present any evidence required by the Director pursuant to this section without good cause shall not prevent the Director from making findings of fact.
(c) After any proceeding under this section the Director shall make specific findings on whether the fee exceeded the prevailing community charges (as established by the OWCP fee schedule, where appropriate) or the provider's customary charges and provide notice of these findings to the affected parties.
(d) The Director may suspend any such proceedings if after receipt of the written complaint the affected parties agree to withdraw the controversy from agency consideration on the basis that such controversy has been resolved by the affected parties. Such suspension, however, shall be at the discretion of the Director.
[51 FR 4286, Feb. 3, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 51348, Oct. 2, 1995; 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 702.415
Fees for medical services; unresolved disputes on charges; procedure.
After issuance of specific findings of fact and proposed action by the Director as provided in § 702.414 any affected provider employer or other interested party has the right to seek a hearing pursuant to section 556 of title 5, United States Code. Upon written request for such a hearing, the matter shall be referred by the District Director to the OALJ for formal hearing in accordance with the procedures in subpart C of this part. If no such request for a hearing is filed with the district director within thirty (30) days the findings issued pursuant to § 702.414 shall be final.
[51 FR 4286, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.416
Fees for medical services; disputes; hearings; necessary parties.
At formal hearings held pursuant to § 702.415, the necessary parties shall be the person whose fee or cost charge is in question and the Director, or their representatives. The employer or carrier may also be represented, and other parties, or associations having an interest in the proceedings, may be heard, in the discretion of the administrative law judge.
§ 702.417
Fees for medical services; disputes; effect of adverse decision.
If the final decision and order upholds the finding of the Director that the fee or charge in dispute was not in accordance with prevailing community charges or the provider's customary charges, the person claiming such fee or cost charge shall be given thirty (30) days after filing of such decision and order to make the necessary adjustment. If such person still refuses to
make the required readjustment, such person shall not be authorized to conduct any further treatments or examinations (if a physician) or to provide any other services or supplies (if by other than a physician). Any fee or cost charge subsequently incurred for services performed or supplies furnished shall not be a reimbursable medical expense under this subpart. This prohibition shall apply notwithstanding the fact that the services performed or supplies furnished were in all other respects necessary and appropriate within the provision of these regulations. However, the Director may direct reimbursement of medical claims for services rendered if such services were rendered in an emergency (see § 702.435(b)). At the termination of the proceedings provided for in this section the district director shall determine whether further proceedings under § 702.432 should be initiated.
[50 FR 403, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Medical Procedures
§ 702.418
Procedure for requesting medical care; employee's duty to notify employer.
(a) As soon as practicable, but within 30 days after occurrence of an injury covered by the Act, or within 30 days after an employee becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence should be aware, of the relationship between an injury or disease and his employment, the injured employee or someone on his behalf shall give written notice thereof to the district director having jurisdiction over the place where the injury occurred and to the employer. If a form has been prescribed for such purpose it shall be used, if available and practicable under the circumstances. Notices filed under subpart B of this part, if on the form prescribed by the Director for such purpose, satisfy the written notice requirements of this subpart.
(b) In the case of an occupational disease which does not immediately result in a disability or death, such notice shall be given within one year after the employee becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice should have been aware, of the relationship between the employment, the disease, and the death or disability. Notice shall be given: (1) To the district director in the compensation district in which the injury or death occurred, and (2) to the employer.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 403, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.419
Action by employer upon acquiring knowledge or being given notice of injury.
Whenever an employer acquires knowledge of an employee's injury, through receipt of a written notice or otherwise, said employer shall forthwith authorize, in writing, appropriate medical care. If a form is prescribed for this purpose it shall be used whenever practicable. Authorization shall also be given in cases where an employee's initial choice was not of a specialist whose services are necessary for and appropriate to the proper care and treatment of the compensable injury or disease. In all other cases, consent may be given upon a showing of good cause for change.
[50 FR 403, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.420
Issuance of authorization; binding effect upon insurance carrier.
The issuance of an authorization for treatment by the employer shall bind his insurance carrier to furnish and pay for such care and services.
§ 702.421
Effect of failure to obtain initial authorization.
An employee shall not be entitled to recover for medical services and supplies unless:
(a) The employer shall have refused or neglected a request to furnish such services and the employee has complied with sections 7 (b) and (c) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 907 (b) and (c) and these regulations; or
(b) The nature of the injury required such treatment and services and the employer or his superintendent or foreman having knowledge of such injury shall have neglected to provide or authorize same.
[50 FR 403, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.422
Effect of failure to report on medical care after initial authorization.
(a) Notwithstanding that medical care is properly obtained in accordance with these regulations, a finding by the Director that a medical care provider has failed to comply with the reporting requirements of the Act shall operate as a mandatory revocation of authorization of such medical care provider. The effect of a final finding to this effect operates to release the employer/carrier from liability of the expenses of such care. In addition to this, when such a finding is made by the Director, the claimant receiving treatment will be directed by the district director to seek authorization for medical care from another source.
(b) For good cause shown, the Director may excuse the failure to comply with the reporting requirements of the Act and further, may make an award for the reasonable value of such medical care.
[50 FR 403, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Debarment of Physicians and Other Providers of Medical Services and Suppliers and Claims Representatives
§ 702.431
Grounds for debarment.
A physician or health care provider shall be debarred if it is found, after appropriate investigation as described in § 702.414 and proceedings under §§ 702.432 and 702.433, that such physician or health care provider has:
(a) Knowingly and willfully made, or caused to be made, any false statement or misrepresentation of a material fact for use in a claim for compensation or claim for reimbursement of medical expenses under this Act;
(b) Knowingly and willfully submitted, or caused to be submitted, a bill or request for payment under this Act containing a charge which the Director finds to be substantially in excess of the charge for the service, appliance, or supply prevailing within the community or in excess of the provider's customary charges, unless the Director finds there is good cause for the bill or request containing the charge;
(c) Knowingly and willfully furnished a service, appliance, or supply which is determined by the Director to be substantially in excess of the need of the recipient thereof or to be of a quality which substantially fails to meet professionally recognized standards;
(d) Been convicted under any criminal statute, without regard to pending appeal thereof, for fraudulent activities in connection with federal or state program for which payments are made to physicians or providers of similar services, appliances, or supplies; or has otherwise been excluded from participation in such program.
(e) The fact that a physician or health care provider has been convicted of a crime previously described in (d), or excluded or suspended, or has resigned in lieu of exclusion or suspension, from participation in any program as described in (d), shall be a prima facie finding of fact for purposes of section 7(j)(2) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 907(j)(2).
[50 FR 404, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.432
Debarment process.
(a)
Pertaining to health care providers.
Upon receipt of information indicating that a physician or health care provider has engaged in activities enumerated in subparagraphs (a) through (c) of § 702.431, the Director, through the Director's designees, may evaluate the information (as described in § 702.414) to ascertain whether proceedings should be initiated against the physician or health care provider to remove authorization to render medical care or service under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
(b)
Pertaining to health care providers and claims representatives.
If after appropriate investigation the Director determines that proceedings should be initiated, written notice thereof must be provided to the physician, health care provider or claims representative. Notice must contain the following:
(1) A concise statement of the grounds upon which debarment will be based;
(2) A summary of the information upon which the director has relied in reaching an initial decision that debarment proceedings should be initiated;
(3) An invitation to the physician, health care provider or claims representative to: (i) Resign voluntarily from participation in the program without admitting or denying the allegations presented in the written notice; or (ii) request a decision on debarment to be based upon the existing agency record and any other information the physician, health care provider or claims representative may wish to provide;
(4) A notice of the physician's, health care provider's or claims representative's right, in the event of an adverse ruling by the Director, to request a formal hearing before an administrative law judge;
(5) A notice that should the physician, health care provider or claims representative fail to provide written answer to the written notice described in this section within thirty (30) days of receipt, the Director may deem the allegations made therein to be true and may order exclusion of the physician, health care provider or claims representative without conducting any further proceedings; and
(6) The name and address of the district director who will be responsible for receiving the answer from the physician, health care provider or claims representative.
(c) Should the physician, health care provider or claims representative fail to file a written answer to the notice described in this section within thirty (30) days of receipt thereof, the Director may deem the allegations made therein to be true and may order debarment of the physician, health care provider or claims representative.
(d) The physician, health care provider or claims representative may inspect or request copies of information in the agency records at any time prior to the Director's decision.
(e) The Director must issue a decision in writing, and must send a copy of the decision to the physician, health care provider or claims representative. The decision must advise the physician, health care provider or claims representative of the right to request, within thirty (30) days of the date of an adverse decision, a formal hearing before an administrative law judge under the procedures set forth herein. The filing of such a request for hearing within the time specified will operate to stay the effectiveness of the decision to debar.
[50 FR 404, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 80 FR 12932, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 702.433
Requests for hearing.
(a) A request for hearing must be sent to the district director and contain a concise notice of the issues on which the physician, health care provider or claims representative desires to give evidence at the hearing with identification of witnesses and documents to be submitted at the hearing.
(b) If a request for hearing is timely received by the district director, the matter must be referred to the Chief Administrative Law Judge who must assign it for hearing with the assigned administrative law judge issuing a notice of hearing for the conduct of the hearing. A copy of the hearing notice must be served on the physician, health care provider or claims representative.
(c) If a request for hearing contains identification of witnesses or documents not previously considered by the Director, the Director may make application to the assigned administrative law judge for an offer of proof from the physician, health care provider or claims representative for the purpose of discovery prior to hearing. If the offer of proof indicates injection of new issues or new material evidence not previously considered by the Director, the Director may request a remand order for purposes of reconsideration of the decision made pursuant to § 702.432 of these regulations.
(d) The parties may make application for the issuance of subpoenas upon a showing of good cause therefore to the administrative law judge.
(e) The administrative law judge will issue a recommended decision after the termination of the hearing. The recommended decision must contain appropriate findings, conclusions, and a recommended order and be forwarded, together with the record of the hearing, to the Administrative Review Board for a decision. The recommended decision must be served upon all parties to the proceeding.
(f) Based upon a review of the record and the recommended decision of the administrative law judge, the Administrative Review Board will issue a decision.
[50 FR 404, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 28606, July 12, 1990; 61 FR 19984, May 3, 1996; 80 FR 12932, Mar. 12, 2015; 85 FR 13030, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30616, May 20, 2020]
§ 702.434
Judicial review.
(a) Any physician, health care provider, or claims representative who participated as a party in the hearing may obtain review of the Department's final decision made by the Administrative Review Board or the Secretary, as appropriate, regardless of the amount of controversy, by commencing a civil action within sixty (60) days after the decision is transmitted to him or her. The pendency of such review will not stay the effect of the decision. Such action must be brought in the Court of Appeals of the United States for the judicial circuit in which the plaintiff resides or has his or her principal place of business, or the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia pursuant to section 7(j)(4) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 907(j)(4).
(b) As part of the Department's answer, the Administrative Review Board must file a certified copy of the transcript of the record of the hearing, including all evidence submitted in connection therewith.
(c) The findings of fact contained in the Department's final decision, if based on substantial evidence in the record as a whole, shall be conclusive.
[85 FR 30616, May 20, 2020]
§ 702.435
Effects of debarment.
(a) The Director shall give notice of the debarment of a physician, hospital, or provider of medical support services or supplies to:
(1) All OWCP district offices;
(2) The Health Care Financing Administration;
(3) The State or Local authority responsible for licensing or certifying the debarred party;
(4) The employers and authorized insurers under the Act by means of an annual bulletin sent to them by the Director; and
(5) The general public by posting in the district office in the jurisdiction where the debarred party maintains a place of business.
If a claims representative is debarred, the Director shall give notice to those groups listed in paragraphs (a) (1), (3), (4), and (5) of this section.
(b) Notwithstanding any debarment under this subpart, the Director shall not refuse a claimant reimbursement for any otherwise reimbursable medical expense if the treatment, service or supply was rendered by debarred provider in an emergency situation. However, such claimant will be directed by the Director to select a duly qualified provider upon the earliest opportunity.
[50 FR 405, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 702.436
Reinstatement.
(a) If a physician or health care provider has been debarred or pursuant to § 702.431(d) or if a claims representative has been debarred pursuant to § 702.131(c) (1) or (3) the person debarred will be automatically reinstated upon notice to the Director that the conviction or exclusion has been reversed or withdrawn. However, such reinstatement will not preclude the Director from instituting debarment proceedings based upon the subject matter involved.
(b) A physician, health care provider or claims representative otherwise debarred by the Director may apply for reinstatement to participate in the program by application to the Director after three years from the date of entry of the order of exclusion. Such application for reinstatement shall be addressed to the Associate Director for the Longshore program, and shall contain a statement of the basis of the application along with any supporting documentation.
(c) The Director may further investigate the merits of the reinstatement application by requiring special reporting procedures from the applicant for a probationary period not to exceed six months to be monitored by the district office where the provider maintains a place of business.
(d) At the end of aforesaid probationary period, the Director may order
full reinstatement of the physician, health care provider or claims representative if such reinstatement is clearly consistent with the program goal to protect itself against fraud and abuse and, further, if the physician, health care provider or claims representative has given reasonable assurances that the basis for the debarment will not be repeated.
[50 FR 405, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Hearing Loss Claims
§ 702.441
Claims for loss of hearing.
(a) Claims for hearing loss pending on or filed after September 28, 1984 (the date of enactment of Pub. L. 98-426) shall be adjudicated with respect to the determination of the degree of hearing impairment in accordance with these regulations.
(b) An audiogram shall be presumptive evidence of the amount of hearing loss on the date administered if the following requirements are met:
(1) The audiogram was administered by a licensed or certified audiologist, by a physician certified by the American Board of Otolaryngology, or by a technician, under an audiologist's or physician's supervision, certified by the Council of Accreditation on Occupational Hearing Conservation, or by any other person considered qualified by a hearing conservation program authorized pursuant to 29 CFR 1910.95(g)(3) promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 667). Thus, either a professional or trained technician may conduct audiometric testing. However, to be acceptable under this subsection, a licensed or certified audiologist or otolaryngologist, as defined, must ultimately interpret and certify the results of the audiogram. The accompanying report must set forth the testing standards used and describe the method of evaluating the hearing loss as well as providing an evaluation of the reliability of the test results.
(2) The employee was provided the audiogram and a report thereon at the time it was administered or within thirty (30) days thereafter.
(3) No one produces a contrary audiogram of equal probative value (meaning one performed using the standards described herein) made at the same time. “Same time” means within thirty (30) days thereof where noise exposure continues or within six (6) months where exposure to excessive noise levels does not continue. Audiometric tests performed prior to the enactment of Public Law 98-426 will be considered presumptively valid if the employer complied with the procedures in this section for administering audiograms.
(c) In determining the amount of pre-employment hearing loss, an audiogram must be submitted which was performed prior to employment or within thirty (30) days of the date of the first employment-related noise exposure. Audiograms performed after December 27, 1984 must comply with the standards described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) In determining the loss of hearing under the Act, the evaluators shall use the criteria for measuring and calculating hearing impairment as published and modified from time-to-time by the American Medical Association in the
Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment,
using the most currently revised edition of this publication. In addition, the audiometer used for testing the individual's threshold of hearing must be calibrated according to current American National Standard Specifications for Audiometers. Audiometer testing procedures required by hearing conservation programs pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 should be followed (as described at 29 CFR 1910.95 and appendices).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0160)
[50 FR 405, Jan. 3, 1985]

# Subpart E—Vocational Rehabilitation
§ 702.501
Vocational rehabilitation; objective.
The objective of vocational rehabilitation is the return of permanently disabled persons to gainful employment commensurate with their physical or mental impairments, or both, through a program of reevaluation or redirection of their abilities, or retraining in
another occupation, or selective job placement assistance.
§ 702.502
Vocational rehabilitation; action by district directors.
All injury cases which are likely to result in, or have resulted in, permanent disability, and which are of a character likely to require review by a vocational rehabilitation adviser on the staff of the Director, shall promptly be referred to such adviser by the district director or his designee having charge of the case. A form has been prescribed for such purpose and shall be used. Medical data and other pertinent information shall accompany the referral.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0051)
(Pub. L. No. 96-511)
[38 FR 26861, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 49 FR 18294, Apr. 30, 1984]
§ 702.503
Vocational rehabilitation; action by adviser.
The vocational rehabilitation adviser, upon receipt of the referral, shall promptly consider the feasibility of a vocational referral or request for cooperative services from available resources or facilities, to include counseling, vocational survey, selective job placement assistance, and retraining. Public or private agencies may be utilized in arranging necessary vocational rehabilitation services under the Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 31
et seq.
§ 702.504
Vocational rehabilitation; referrals to State Employment Agencies.
Vocational rehabilitation advisers will arrange referral procedures with State Employment Service units within their assigned geographical districts for the purpose of securing employment counseling, job classification, and selective placement assistance. Referrals shall be made to State Employment Offices based upon the following:
(a) Vocational rehabilitation advisers will screen cases so as to refer only those disabled employees who are considered to have employment potential;
(b) Only employees will be referred who have permanent, compensable disabilities resulting in a significant vocational handicap and loss of wage earning capacity;
(c) Disabled employees, whose initial referral to former private employers did not result in a job reassignment or in a job retention, shall be referred for employment counseling and/or selective placement unless retraining services consideration is requested;
(d) The vocational rehabilitation advisers shall arrange for employees' referrals if it is ascertained that they may benefit from registering with the State Employment Service;
(e) Referrals will be made to appropriate State Employment Offices by letter, including all necessary information and a request for a report on the services provided the employee when he registers;
(f) The injured employee shall be advised of available job counseling services and informed that he is being referred for employment and selective placement;
(g) A followup shall be made within 60 days on all referrals to assure uniform reporting by State agencies on cases referred for a vocational survey.
§ 702.505
Vocational rehabilitation; referrals to other public and private agencies.
Referrals to such other public and private agencies providing assistance to disabled persons such as public welfare agencies, Public Health Services facilities, social services units of the Veterans Administration, the Social Security Administration, and other such agencies, shall be made by the vocational rehabilitation adviser, where appropriate, on an individual basis when requested by disabled employees. Such referrals do not provide for a service cost reimbursement by the Department of Labor.
§ 702.506
Vocational rehabilitation; training.
Vocational rehabilitation training shall be planned in anticipation of a short, realistic, attainable vocational objective terminating in remunerable employment, and in restoring wage-earning capacity or increasing it materially. The following procedures shall
apply in arranging for or providing training:
(a) The vocational rehabilitation adviser shall arrange for and develop all vocational training programs.
(b) Training programs shall be developed to meet the varying needs of eligible beneficiaries, and may include courses at colleges, technical schools, training at rehabilitation centers, on-the-job training, or tutorial courses. The courses shall be pertinent to the occupation for which the employee is being trained.
(c) Training may be terminated if the injured employee fails to cooperate with the Department of Labor or with the agency supervising his course of training. The employee shall be counseled before training is terminated.
(d) Reports shall be required at periodic intervals on all persons in approved training programs.
§ 702.507
Vocational rehabilitation; maintenance allowance.
(a) An injured employee who, as a result of injury, is or may be expected to be totally or partially incapacitated for a remunerative occupation and who, under the direction of the Director is being rendered fit to engage in a remunerative occupation, shall be paid additional compensation necessary for this maintenance, not exceeding $25 a week. The expense shall be paid out of the special fund established in section 44 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 944. The maximum maintenance allowance shall not be provided on an automatic basis, but shall be based on the recommendation of a State agency that a claimant is unable to meet additional costs by reason of being in training.
(b) When required by reason of personal illness or hardship, limited periods of absence from training may be allowed without terminating the maintenance allowance. A maintenance allowance shall be terminated when it is shown to the satisfaction of the Director that a trainee is not complying reasonably with the terms of the training plan or is absenting himself without good cause from training so as to materially interfere with the accomplishment of the training objective.
§ 702.508
Vocational rehabilitation; confidentiality of information.
The following safeguards will be observed to protect the confidential character of information released regarding an individual undergoing rehabilitation:
(a) Information will be released to other agencies from which an injured employee has requested services only if such agencies have established regulations assuring that such information will be considered confidential and will be used only for the purpose for which it is provided;
(b) Interested persons and agencies have been advised that any information concerning rehabilitation program employees is to be held confidential;
(c) A rehabilitation employee's written consent is secured for release of information regarding disability to a person, agency, or establishment seeking the information for purposes other than the approved rehabilitation planning with such employee.

# Subpart F—Occupational Disease Which Does Not Immediately Result in Death or Disability

# Source:
50 FR 406, Jan. 3, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 702.601
Definitions.
(a)
Time of injury.
For purposes of this subpart and with respect to an occupational disease which does not immediately result in death or disability, the time of injury shall be deemed to be the date on which the employee or claimant becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice should have been aware, of the relationship between the employment, the disease, and the death or disability.
(b)
Disability.
With regard to an occupational disease for which the time of injury, as defined in § 702.601(a), occurs after the employee was retired, disability shall mean permanent impairment as determined according to the
Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment
which is prepared and modified from time-to-time by the American Medical Association, using the most currently revised edition of this
publication. If this guide does not evaluate the impairment, other professionally recognized standards may be utilized. The disability described in this paragraph shall be limited to permanent partial disability. For that reason they are not subject to adjustments under section 10(f) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 910(f).
(c)
Retirement.
For purposes of this subpart, retirement shall mean that the claimant, or decedent in cases involving survivor's benefits, has voluntarily withdrawn from the workforce and that there is no realistic expectation that such person will return to the workforce.
[50 FR 406, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4286, Feb. 3, 1986]
§ 702.602
Notice and claims.
(a)
Time for giving notice of injury or death.
Refer to § 702.207.
(b)
Time for filing of claims.
Refer to § 702.212.
§ 702.603
Determining the payrate for compensating occupational disease claims which become manifest after retirement.
(a) If the time of injury occurs within the first year after the employee has retired, the payrate for compensation purposes shall be one fifty-second part of the employee's average annual earnings during the fifty-two week period preceding retirement.
(b) If the time of injury occurs more than one year after the employee has retired the payrate for compensation purposes shall be the national average weekly wage, determined according to section 6(b)(3) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 906(b)(3), at the time of injury.
§ 702.604
Determining the amount of compensation for occupational disease claims which become manifest after retirement.
(a) If the claim is for disability benefits and the time of injury occurs after the employee has retired, compensation shall be 66
2/3
percent of the payrate, as determined under § 702.603, times the disability, as determined according to § 702.601(b).
(b) If the claim is for death benefits and the time of injury occurs after the decedent has retired, compensation shall be the percent specified in section 9 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 909, times the payrate determined according to § 702.603. Total weekly death benefits shall not exceed one fifty-second part of the decedent's average annual earnings during the fifty-two week period preceding retirement, such benefits shall be subject to the limitation provided for in section 6(b)(1) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 906(b)(1).
[50 FR 406, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 4286, Feb. 3, 1986]

# Subpart G—Section 10(f) Adjustments

# Source:
83 FR 17290, Apr. 19, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 702.701
What is an annual section 10(f) adjustment and how is it calculated?
(a) Claimants receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits are entitled to section 10(f) adjustments each fiscal year. A section 10(f) adjustment cannot decrease the compensation or death benefits payable to any claimant.
(b) The section 10(f) adjustment for a given fiscal year is the lower of:
(1) The percentage by which the new fiscal year's national average weekly wage exceeds the prior fiscal year's national average weekly wage as determined by the Department (
see
§ 702.804(b)); or
(2) 5 percent.
(c) Section 10(f) percentage increases are applied each October 1 to the amount of compensation or death benefits payable in the prior fiscal year.
(d) In applying section 10(f) adjustments—
(1) Calculations are rounded to the nearest dollar; and
(2) No adjustment is made if the calculated amount is less than one dollar.
(e) A section 10(f) adjustment must not increase a claimant's weekly compensation or death benefits beyond the applicable fiscal year's maximum rate.
(f) Section 10(f) adjustments do not apply to compensation for temporary or partial disability.

# Subpart H—Maximum and Minimum Compensation Rates

# Source:
83 FR 17290, Apr. 19, 2018 unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 702.801
Scope and intent of this subpart.
(a) This subpart implements the Act's provisions that affect the maximum and minimum rates of compensation and death benefits payable to employees and survivors. These statutory provisions include sections 6(b) and (c), and 9(e). 33 U.S.C. 906(b), (c); 909(e). It is intended that these statutory provisions be construed as provided in this subpart.
(b) These regulations implement section 6(c), 33 U.S.C. 906(c), based on the following concepts:
(1) An employee is “newly awarded compensation” when he or she first becomes disabled due to an injury;
(2) A survivor is “newly awarded compensation” on the date the employee died; and
(3) An employee or survivor is “currently receiving compensation” when compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits is payable, regardless of when payment is actually made.
§ 702.802
Applicability of this subpart.
(a) This subpart applies to all compensation and death benefits paid under the Act as a result of injuries or deaths occurring on or after May 21, 2018 with the following exceptions:
(1) Amounts payable under an approved settlement (
see
33 U.S.C. 908(i));
(2) Amounts paid for an employee's death to the Special Fund (
see
33 U.S.C. 944(c)(1));
(3) Any payments for medical expenses (
see
33 U.S.C. 907); and
(4) Any other lump sum payment of compensation or death benefits, including aggregate death benefits paid when a survivor remarries (
see
33 U.S.C. 909(b)) or aggregate compensation paid under a commutation (
see
33 U.S.C. 909(g)).
(b) The rules in this subpart governing minimum disability compensation and death benefits do not apply to claims arising under the Defense Base Act, 42 U.S.C. 1651 (
see
42 U.S.C. 1652(a); 20 CFR 704.103).
§ 702.803
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
Calculated compensation rate
means the amount of weekly compensation for total disability or death that a claimant would be entitled to if there were no maximum rates, minimum rates, or section 10(f) adjustments.
Date of disability.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, the date of disability is the date on which the employee first became incapable, because of an injury, of earning the same wages the employee was receiving at the time of the injury.
(2) Exceptions:
(i) For scheduled permanent partial disability benefits under 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1)-(20) that are not preceded by a permanent total, temporary total, or temporary partial disability resulting from the same injury, the date of disability is the date on which the employee first becomes permanently impaired by the injury to the scheduled member.
(ii) For an occupational disease that does not immediately result in disability, the date of disability is the date on which the employee becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice should have been aware, of the relationship between his or her employment, the disease, and the disability.
(iii) For any disability lasting 14 or fewer days, the date of disability is 4 days after the date on which the employee first became incapable, because of an injury, of earning the same wages the employee was receiving at the time of the injury.
Fiscal year
or
FY
means the period from October 1 of a calendar year until September 30 of the following calendar year.
Maximum rate
means the maximum weekly compensation rate calculated by the Department for a given fiscal year as described in § 702.804(b).
Minimum rate
means the minimum weekly compensation rate calculated by the Department for a given fiscal year as described in § 702.804(c).
Section 10(f) adjustment
means the annual increase that certain claimants receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death are entitled to each fiscal year under 33 U.S.C. 910(f) and as calculated by the Department as described in § 702.701(b).
§ 702.804
What are the weekly maximum and minimum rates for each fiscal year and how are they calculated?
(a) For each fiscal year, the Department must determine a weekly maximum and minimum compensation rate. These amounts are called the maximum and minimum rates in this subchapter. In combination with other factors, these rates are used to determine compensation payments under the Act.
(b) The maximum compensation rate in effect for a given fiscal year is 200% of the national average weekly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private, nonagricultural payrolls, as calculated by the Department, for the first three quarters of the preceding fiscal year.
(c) The minimum compensation rate in effect for a given fiscal year is 50% of the national average weekly earnings of production or nonsupervisory workers on private, nonagricultural payrolls, as calculated by the Department, for the first three quarters of the preceding fiscal year.

# Maximum Rates
§ 702.805
What weekly maximum rates apply to compensation for permanent partial disability, temporary total disability, and temporary partial disability?
(a) The maximum rate in effect on the date of disability applies to all compensation payable for permanent partial disability, temporary partial disability, and temporary total disability.
(b) Examples:
(1) Employee
A
suffers a covered workplace injury on April 1, 2000, is temporarily totally disabled from that day through June 4, 2002, and is thereafter permanently partially disabled. All compensation payable for
A's
disability is subject to the FY 2000 maximum rate.
(2) Employee
B
suffers a covered workplace injury on August 25, 2010, and is temporarily totally disabled until September 25, 2010, when he returns to work. On January 3, 2011, he again becomes temporarily totally disabled from the same injury. He ceases work and is unable to return until November 22, 2012. All compensation payable for
B's
disability is subject to the FY 2010 maximum rate.
(3) Employee
C
retires on May 6, 2011. She discovers on November 10, 2012, that she has a compensable occupational disease. All compensation payable for
C's
occupational disease is subject to the FY 2013 maximum rate.
See
§ 702.601(b) (occupational diseases discovered post-retirement are compensated as permanent partial disabilities).
§ 702.806
What weekly maximum rates apply to compensation for permanent total disability?
(a) The maximum rate in effect on the date that the employee became totally and permanently disabled applies to all compensation payable for permanent total disability during that fiscal year.
(b) For all periods the employee is permanently and totally disabled in subsequent fiscal years, the weekly compensation payable is subject to each subsequent year's maximum rate.
(c) If a claimant is receiving compensation for permanent total disability at the maximum rate for the current fiscal year, but the next fiscal year's maximum rate will be higher than the claimant's calculated compensation rate, the claimant's compensation for the next fiscal year will increase by the amount of the 10(f) adjustment, subject to the maximum rate for the next fiscal year.
(d) Examples:
(1) Employee
A
suffers a covered workplace injury on April 1, 2000, and is permanently and totally disabled from that date forward.
A's
compensation for the period from April 1, 2000, until September 30, 2000, is subject to the FY 2000 maximum rate. Beginning October 1, 2000,
A's
compensation for FY 2001 is subject to the FY 2001 maximum rate, compensation for FY 2002 is
subject to the FY 2002 maximum rate,
etc.
(2) Employee
B
suffers a covered workplace injury on April 1, 2000, is temporarily totally disabled from that day through June 3, 2002, and is thereafter permanently totally disabled.
B's
compensation for the period from April 1, 2000, through June 3, 2002, is subject to the FY 2000 maximum rate (
see
§ 702.805(a)).
B's
compensation for the period from June 4, 2002, through September 30, 2002, is subject to the FY 2002 maximum rate. Beginning October 1, 2002,
B's
compensation for FY 2003 is subject to the FY 2003 maximum rate, compensation for FY 2004 is subject to the FY 2004 maximum rate,
etc.
(3) Employee
C
suffers a covered workplace injury in FY 2009 and is permanently totally disabled from that day forward. He was earning $1,950.00 a week when he was injured, making his calculated compensation rate $1,300.00 ($1,950.00 × 2 ÷ 3). His calculated compensation rate exceeds the maximum rate from FY 2009-2012; thus, his compensation is limited to each year's maximum rate. In FY 2013,
C's
calculated compensation rate of $1,300.00 is, for the first time, less than the FY 2013 maximum rate of $1,325.18. Applying the FY 2013 2.31% section 10(f) adjustment to
C's
FY 2012 compensation rate of $1,295.20 results in a compensation rate of $1,325.00 ($1,295.20 × .0231 = $29.92, rounded to the nearest cent; $1,295.20 + $29.92 = $1,325.12, rounded to the nearest dollar). This amount falls just below the FY 2013 maximum rate of $1,325.18. Thus,
C's
benefit rate for FY 2013 is $1,325.00, and is not limited by the maximum rate.
§ 702.807
What weekly maximum rates apply to death benefits?
(a) The maximum rate in effect on the date that the employee died applies to all death benefits payable during that fiscal year.
(b) Aggregate weekly death benefits paid to all eligible survivors during the fiscal year in which the employee died must not exceed the lower of—
(1) The maximum rate for that fiscal year; or
(2) The employee's average weekly wages.
(c) For subsequent fiscal years—
(1) Aggregate weekly death benefits paid during each subsequent fiscal year are subject to each subsequent year's maximum rate.
(2) If death benefits were paid in the first year at the employee's full average weekly wage under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the aggregate weekly death benefits paid for each subsequent year may not exceed the current benefit rate plus the subsequent year's section 10(f) adjustment (
see
§ 702.701).
(d) Post-retirement occupational diseases: Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, if an employee's death results from an occupational disease where the date of disability occurred after the employee voluntarily retired—
(1) Aggregate weekly death benefits paid to all eligible survivors during the fiscal year in which the employee died must not exceed the lower of:
(i) The maximum rate for that fiscal year; or
(ii) One fifty-second part of the employee's average annual earnings during the 52-week period preceding retirement.
(2) For subsequent fiscal years—
(i) Aggregate weekly death benefits paid during each subsequent fiscal year are subject to each subsequent year's maximum rate.
(ii) If death benefits were paid in the first year at 1/52 part of the employee's average annual earnings prior to retirement under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the aggregate weekly death benefits paid for each subsequent year may not exceed the current benefit rate plus the subsequent year's section 10(f) adjustment (
see
§ 702.701).
(e) Examples:
(1) Employee
A
suffers a covered workplace injury on May 1, 2013, and is permanently and totally disabled from that date until August 1, 2014, when he dies due to the injury. He has one eligible survivor and his average weekly wage at the time of injury was $3,000.00. The calculated compensation rate for
A's
survivor is $1,500.00 (
i.e.,
50% of
A's
average weekly wage).
A's
weekly survivor's benefits for the period from August 2, 2014, to September 30, 2014, are limited to the FY 2014 maximum rate of $1,346.68. Beginning October 1, 2014,
A's
survivor's benefits for FY 2015 are
subject to the FY 2015 maximum rate, benefits for FY 2016 are subject to the FY 2016 maximum rate,
etc.
(2) Employee
B
suffers a covered workplace injury and dies on December 1, 2012. She has one eligible survivor and her average weekly wage was $300.00. Because
B's
average weekly wage of $300.00 falls below the FY 2013 national average weekly wage of $662.59, death benefits are calculated at 50% of that national average wage (
see
33 U.S.C. 909(e)). This yields a calculated compensation rate of $331.30. But because this rate exceeds
B's
actual average weekly wages, weekly death benefits payable during FY 2013 are limited to $300.00. In FY 2014,
B's
survivor is entitled to a 1.62% section 10(f) adjustment, resulting in weekly death benefits of $305.00 ($300.00 × .0162 = $4.86; $300.00 + $4.86 = $304.86, rounded to the nearest dollar).
B's
survivor would continue to receive section 10(f) adjustments in subsequent fiscal years.
(3) Employee
C
retired on February 1, 1998. During his last year of employment, he earned $23,000. He discovers on April 15, 2002, that he has a compensable occupational disease resulting in a 50% permanent impairment.
See
§ 702.601(b). Because he retired more than one year before this date, his payrate for calculating compensation is the FY 2002 national average weekly wage, or $483.04.
See
§ 702.603(b). He is entitled to weekly compensation of $161.01 ($483.04 × 2 ÷ 3 × 50%).
C
dies from the disease on June 1, 2015, leaving two survivors. The payrate for calculating death benefits is the FY 2015 national average weekly wage, or $688.51.
See
§ 702.604(b). The survivors' aggregate calculated compensation rate is $459.01 ($688.51 × 2 ÷ 3). But because compensation cannot exceed
1/52
part of
C's
last year of earnings, aggregate weekly death benefits payable for FY 2015 are limited to $442.31 ($23,000 ÷ 52). For FY 2016,
C's
survivors are entitled to a 2.10% section 10(f) adjustment resulting in weekly death benefits of $452.00 ($442.31 × .021 = $9.29, rounded to the nearest cent; $442.31 + $9.29 = $451.60, rounded to the nearest dollar).
C's
survivors would continue to receive section 10(f) adjustments in subsequent fiscal years.

# Minimum Rates
§ 702.808
What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for partial disability?
There is no minimum rate for compensation paid for partial disability, whether temporary or permanent.
§ 702.809
What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for temporary total disability?
(a) The minimum compensation payable for temporary total disability is the lower of:
(1) The minimum rate in effect on the date of disability, or
(2) The employee's average weekly wage on the date of disability.
(b) Example: Employee
A
suffers a covered workplace injury on May 6, 2014. He is temporarily totally disabled until November 6, 2015, when he returns to work. His average weekly wages at the time of disability were $500.00. Because his calculated compensation rate (
i.e.,
66 and
2/3
% of $500.00, or $333.34) is lower than the $336.67 FY 2014 minimum rate,
A's
compensation is raised to $336.67 for the entire period of his disability.
§ 702.810
What weekly minimum rates apply to compensation for permanent total disability?
(a) The weekly minimum compensation payable for the fiscal year in which the employee became permanently and totally disabled is the lower of:
(1) The minimum rate in effect on the date of disability, or
(2) The employee's average weekly wage on the date of disability.
(b) For all periods the employee is permanently and totally disabled in subsequent fiscal years, the weekly minimum compensation payable is the lower of:
(1) Each subsequent fiscal year's minimum rate, or
(2) The employee's average weekly wage on the date of disability.
(c) Example: Employee
A
suffers a covered workplace injury on April 1, 2003, and is permanently totally disabled from that day forward. He was earning $250.00 a week when he was injured. His calculated compensation rate is $166.67 ($250 × 2 ÷ 3). The FY 2003
minimum rate is $249.14. Because
A's
calculated compensation rate is below the FY 2003 minimum rate, and his actual weekly wage is above that rate, he is entitled to compensation at the minimum rate of $249.14 from April 1, 2003, to September 30, 2003. The FY 2004 minimum rate is $257.70. Because
A's
actual weekly wages on the date of disability are lower than the FY 2004 minimum rate,
A's
minimum weekly compensation rate for FY 2004 is $250.00. His weekly compensation rate for FY 2004, however, is higher because of a section 10(f) adjustment. For FY 2004,
A's
compensation rate is increased by a 3.44% section 10(f) adjustment, raising his compensation level to $258.00 ($249.14 × .0344 = $8.57; $249.14 + $8.57 = $257.71, rounded to the nearest dollar).
§ 702.811
What weekly minimum rates apply to death benefits?
(a) The average weekly wage used to compute death benefits is the greater of—
(1) The deceased employee's average weekly wages; or
(2) The national average weekly wage in effect at the time of the employee's death.
(b) The weekly minimum rate does not apply to death benefits.
Pt. 703

# PART 703—INSURANCE REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
703.1
Scope of part.
703.2
Forms.
703.3
Failure to secure coverage; penalties.

# Subpart B—Authorization of Insurance Carriers
703.101
Types of companies which may be authorized by the OWCP.
703.102
Applications for authority to write insurance; how filed; evidence to be submitted; other requirements.
703.103
Stock companies holding Treasury certificates of authority.
703.104
Applicants currently authorized to write insurance under the extensions of the LHWCA.
703.105
Copies of forms of policies to be submitted with application.
703.106
Certificate of authority to write insurance.
703.108
Period of authority to write insurance.
703.109
Longshoremen's endorsement; see succeeding parts for endorsements for extensions.
703.110
Other forms of endorsements and policies.
703.111
Submission of new forms of policies for approval; other endorsements.
703.112
Terms of policies.
703.113
Marine insurance contracts.
703.114
Notice of cancellation.
703.115
Discharge by the carrier of obligations and duties of employer.
703.116
Report by carrier of issuance of policy or endorsement.
703.117
Report; by whom sent.
703.118
Agreement to be bound by report.
703.119
[Reserved]
703.120
Name of one employer only shall be given in each report.

# Subpart C—Insurance Carrier Security Deposit Requirements
703.201
Deposits of security by insurance carriers.
703.202
Identification of significant gaps in State guaranty fund coverage for LHWCA obligations.
703.203
Application for security deposit determination; information to be submitted; other requirements.
703.204
Decision on insurance carrier's application; minimum amount of deposit.
703.205
Filing of Agreement and Undertaking; deposit of security.
703.206
[Reserved]
703.207
Kinds of negotiable securities that may be deposited; conditions of deposit; acceptance of deposits.
703.208
Deposits of negotiable securities with Federal Reserve banks or the Treasurer of the United States; interest thereon.
703.209
Substitution and withdrawal of indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities.
703.210
Increase or reduction in security deposit amount.
703.211
Authority to seize security deposit; use and/or return of proceeds.
703.212
Required reports; examination of insurance carrier accounts.
703.213
Failure to comply.

# Subpart D—Authorization of Self-Insurers
703.301
Employers who may be authorized as self-insurers.
703.302
Application for authority to become a self-insurer; how filed; information to be submitted; other requirements.
703.303
Decision on employer's application.
703.304
Filing of Agreement and Undertaking; deposit of security.
703.305
[Reserved]
703.306
Kinds of negotiable securities that may be deposited; conditions of deposit; acceptance of deposits.
703.307
Deposits of negotiable securities with Federal Reserve banks or the Treasurer of the United States; interest thereon.
703.308
Substitution and withdrawal of indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities.
703.309
Increase or reduction in the amount of indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities.
703.310
Authority to seize security deposit; use and/or return of proceeds.
703.311
Required reports; examination of self-insurer accounts.
703.312
Period of authorization as self-insurer.
703.313
Revocation of authorization to self-insure.

# Subpart E—Issuance of Certificates of Compliance
703.501
Issuance of certificates of compliance.
703.502
[Reserved]
703.503
Return of certificates of compliance.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, and 8171
et seq.;
33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
43 U.S.C. 1333; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174, 64 Stat. 1263; Secretary's Order 10-2009, 74 FR 58834.

# Source:
38 FR 26873, Sept. 26, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
70 FR 43233, July 26, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 703.1
Scope of part.
Part 703 governs insurance carrier authorizations, insurance carrier security deposits, self-insurer authorizations, and certificates of compliance with the insurance regulations. These provisions are required by the LHWCA and apply to the extensions of the LHWCA except as otherwise provided in part 704 of this subchapter.
§ 703.2
Forms.
(a) Any information required by the regulations in this part to be submitted to OWCP must be submitted on forms the Director authorizes from time to time for such purpose. Persons submitting forms may not modify the forms or use substitute forms without OWCP's approval. These forms must be submitted, sent, or filed in the manner prescribed by OWCP.
Form No.
Title
(1) LS-271
Application for Self-Insurance.
(2) LS-274
Report of Injury Experience.
(3) LS-275 SI
Self-Insurer's Agreement and Undertaking.
(4) LS-275 IC
Insurance Carrier's Agreement and Undertaking.
(5) LS-276
Application for Security Deposit Determination.
(6) LS-405
Indemnity Bond.
(7) LS-570
Card Report of Insurance.
(b) Copies of the forms listed in this section are available for public inspection at the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. They may also be obtained from OWCP district offices and on the Internet at
http://www.dol.gov/owcp/dlhwc.
[70 FR 43233, July 26, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012; 80 FR 12932, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 703.3
Failure to secure coverage; penalties.
(a) Each employer must secure the payment of compensation under the Act either through an authorized insurance carrier or by becoming an authorized self-insurer under section 32(a)(1) or (2) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 932(a)(1) or (2)). An employer who fails to comply with these provisions is subject, upon conviction, to a fine of not more than $10,000, or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. Where the employer is a corporation, the president, secretary and treasurer each will also be subject to this fine and/or imprisonment, in addition to the fine against the corporation, and each is severally personally liable, jointly with the corporation, for all compensation or other benefits payable under the Act while the corporation fails to secure the payment of compensation.
(b) Any employer who willingly and knowingly transfers, sells, encumbers, assigns or in any manner disposes of, conceals, secretes, or destroys any property belonging to the employer after an employee sustains an injury covered by the Act, with the intent to avoid payment of compensation under
the Act to that employee or his/her dependents, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished, upon conviction, by a fine of not more than $10,000 and/or imprisonment for one year. Where the employer is a corporation, the president, secretary and treasurer are also severally liable to imprisonment and, along with the corporation, jointly liable for the fine.

# Subpart B—Authorization of Insurance Carriers
§ 703.101
Types of companies which may be authorized by the OWCP.
The OWCP will consider for the granting of authority to write insurance under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and its extensions the application of any stock company, mutual company or association, or any other person or fund, while authorized under the laws of the United States or for any State to insure workmen's compensation. The term “carrier” as used in this part means any person or fund duly authorized to insure workmen's compensation benefits under said Act, or its extensions.
§ 703.102
Applications for authority to write insurance; how filed; evidence to be submitted; other requirements.
An application for authority to write insurance under this Act shall be made in writing, signed by an officer of the applicant duly authorized to make such application, and transmitted to the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Such application shall be accompanied by full and complete information regarding the history and experience of such applicant in the writing of workmen's compensation insurance, together with evidence that it has authority in its charter or form of organization to write such insurance, and evidence that the applicant is currently authorized to insure workmen's compensation liability under the laws of the United States or of any State. The statements of fact in each application and in the supporting evidence shall be verified by the oath of the officer of the applicant who signs such application. Each applicant shall state in its application the area or areas, in which it intends to do business. In connection with any such application the following shall be submitted, the Office reserving the right to call for such additional information as it may deem necessary in any particular case:
(a) A copy of the last annual report made by the applicant to the insurance department or other authority of the State in which it is incorporated, or the State in which its principal business is done.
(b) A certified copy from the proper State authorities of the paper purporting to show the action taken upon such report, or such other evidence as the applicant desires to submit in respect of such report, which may obviate delay caused by an inquiry of the OWCP of the State authorities relative to the standing and responsibility of the applicant.
(c) A full and complete statement of its financial condition, if not otherwise shown, and, if a stock company, shall show specifically its capital stock and surplus.
(d) A copy of its charter or other formal outline of its organization, its rules, its bylaws, and other documents, writings, or agreements by and under which it does business, and such other evidence as it may deem proper to make a full exposition of its affairs and financial condition.
[38 FR 26873, Sept. 26, 1973; 50 FR 406, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 703.103
Stock companies holding Treasury certificates of authority.
A stock company furnishing evidence that it is authorized to write workmen's compensation insurance under the laws of the United States or of any State, which holds a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds, unless requested to do so, need not transmit to the Office with its application copies of such financial reports as are on file in the Department of the Treasury. The acceptance by that Department of such a company will be considered by the Office in conjunction with the application of such
company, provided there has been compliance with the other requirements of the regulations in this part.
§ 703.104
Applicants currently authorized to write insurance under the extensions of the LHWCA.
Any applicant currently authorized by the Office to write insurance under any extension of the LHWCA need not support its application under the LHWCA or any other LHWCA extension with the evidence required by the regulations in this part, except the form of policy and endorsement which it proposes to use, unless specifically requested by the Office, but instead its application may refer to the fact that it has been so authorized.
§ 703.105
Copies of forms of policies to be submitted with application.
With each application for authority to write insurance there shall be submitted for the approval of the Office copies of the forms of policies which the applicant proposes to issue in writing insurance under the LHWCA, or its extensions, to which shall be attached the appropriate endorsement to be used in connection therewith.
§ 703.106
Certificate of authority to write insurance.
No corporation, company, association, person, or fund shall write insurance under this Act without first having received from the OWCP a certificate of authority to write such insurance. Any such certificate issued by the Office, after application therefor in accordance with these regulations, may authorize the applicant to write such insurance in a limited territory as determined by the Office. Any such certificate may be suspended or revoked by the Office prior to its expiration for good cause shown, but no suspension or revocation shall affect the liability of any carrier already incurred. Good cause shall include, without limitation, the failure to maintain in such limited territory a regular business office with full authority to act on all matters falling within the Act, and the failure to promptly and properly perform the carrier's responsibilities under the Act and these regulations, with special emphasis upon lack of promptness in making payments when due, upon failure to furnish appropriate medical care, and upon attempts to offer to, or urge upon, claimants inequitable settlements. A hearing may be requested by the aggrieved party and shall be held before the Director or his representative prior to the taking of any adverse action under this section.
§ 703.108
Period of authority to write insurance.
Effective with the end of the authorization period July 1, 1983, through June 30, 1984, annual reauthorization of authority to write insurance coverage under the Act is no longer necessary. Beginning July 1, 1984, and thereafter, newly issued Certificates of Authority will show no expiration date. Certificates of Authority will remain in force for so long as the carrier complies with the requirements of the OWCP.
[50 FR 406, Jan. 3, 1985]
§ 703.109
Longshoremen's endorsement; see succeeding parts for endorsements for extensions.
(a) The following form of endorsement application to the standard workmen's compensation and employer's liability policy, shall be used, if required by the OWCP, with the form of policy approved by the Office for use by an authorized carrier:
For attachment to Policy No. ___,
The obligations of the policy include the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
and all laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto which may be or become effective while this policy is in force.
The company will be subject to the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 935. Insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer and/or discharge therein shall not relieve the company from payment of compensation and other benefits lawfully due for disability or death sustained by an employee during the life of the policy.
The company agrees to abide by all the provisions of this Act, and all lawful rules, regulations, orders, and decisions of the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, unless and until set aside, modified, or reversed by appropriate appellate authority as provided for by said Act.
This endorsement shall not be cancelled prior to the date specified in this policy for its expiration until at least 30 days have elapsed after a notice of cancellation has
been sent to the District Director and to this employer.
All terms, conditions, requirements, and obligations, expressed in this policy or in any other endorsement attached thereto which are not inconsistent with or inapplicable to the provisions of this endorsement are hereby made a part of this endorsement as fully and completely as if wholly written herein.
§ 703.110
Other forms of endorsements and policies.
Where the form of endorsement prescribed by § 703.109 is not appropriate when used in conjunction with a form of policy approved for use by the Office no modification thereof shall be used unless specifically approved by the Office. Where the form of policy is designed to include therein the obligations of the insurer under said Act without the use of the appropriate endorsements, the policy shall contain the provisions required to be included in any of the endorsements. Such a policy, however, shall not be used until expressly approved by the Office.
§ 703.111
Submission of new forms of policies for approval; other endorsements.
No new forms of policies or modification of existing forms of policies shall be used by an insurer authorized by the Office under the regulations in this part to write insurance under said Act except after submission to and approval by the Office. No endorsement altering any provisions of a policy approved by the Office shall be used except after submission to and approval by the Office.
§ 703.112
Terms of policies.
A policy or contract of insurance shall be issued for the term of not less than 1 year from the date that it becomes effective, but if such insurance be not needed except for a particular contract or operation, the term of the policy may be limited to the period of such contract or operation.
§ 703.113
Marine insurance contracts.
A longshoremen's policy, or the longshoremen's endorsement provided for by § 703.109 for attachment to a marine policy, may specify the particular vessel or vessels in respect of which the policy applies and the address of the employer at the home port thereof. The report of the issuance of a policy or endorsement required by § 703.116 must be made to DLHWC and must show the name and address of the owner as well as the name or names of such vessel or vessels.
[80 FR 12933, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 703.114
Notice of cancellation.
Cancellation of a contract or policy of insurance issued under authority of the Act will not become effective otherwise than as provided by 33 U.S.C. 936(b); 30 days before such cancellation is intended to be effective, notice of a proposed cancellation must be given to the district director and the employer in accordance with the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 912(c). The notice requirements of 33 U.S.C. 912(c) will be considered met when:
(a) Notice to the district director is given by a method specified in § 702.101(a) of this chapter or in the same manner that reports of issuance of policies and endorsements are reported under § 703.116; and
(b) Notice to the employer is given by a method specified in § 702.101(b) of this chapter.
[80 FR 12933, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 703.115
Discharge by the carrier of obligations and duties of employer.
Every obligation and duty in respect of payment of compensation, the providing of medical and other treatment and care, the payment or furnishing of any other benefit required by said Act and in respect of the carrying out of the administrative procedure required or imposed by said Act or the regulations in this part upon an employer shall be discharged and carried out by the carrier except that the prescribed report of injury or death shall be sent by the employer to the district director and to the insurance carrier as required by 33 U.S.C. 930. Such carrier shall be jointly responsible with the employer for the submission of all reports, notices, forms, and other administrative papers required by the district director or the Office in the administration of said Act to be submitted by the employer, but any form
or paper so submitted where required therein shall contain in addition to the name and address of the carrier, the full name and address of the employer on whose behalf it is submitted. Notice to or knowledge of an employer of the occurrence of the injury or death shall be notice to or knowledge of such carrier. Jurisdiction of the employer by a district director, the Office, or appropriate appellate authority under said Act shall be jurisdiction of such carrier. Any requirement under any compensation order, finding, or decision shall be binding upon such carrier in the same manner and to the same extent as upon the employer.
§ 703.116
Report by carrier of issuance of policy or endorsement.
Each carrier must report to DLHWC each policy and endorsement issued by it to an employer whose employees are engaging in work subject to the Act and its extensions. Such reports must be made in a manner prescribed by OWCP. Reports made to an OWCP-authorized intermediary, such as an industry data collection organization, satisfy this reporting requirement.
[80 FR 12933, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 703.117
Report; by whom sent.
The report of issuance of a policy and endorsement provided for in § 703.116 or notice of cancellation provided for in § 703.114 must be sent by the home office of the carrier, except that any carrier may authorize its agency or agencies in any compensation district to make such reports, provided the carrier notifies DLHWC of the agencies so duly authorized.
[80 FR 12933, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 703.118
Agreement to be bound by report.
Every applicant for the authority to write insurance under the provisions of this Act, will be deemed to have included in its application an agreement that the acceptance by DLHWC of a report of insurance, as provided for by § 703.116, binds the carrier to full liability for the obligations under this Act of the employer named in said report, and every certificate of authority to write insurance under this Act will be deemed to have been issued by the Office upon consideration of the carrier's agreement to become so bound. It will be no defense to this agreement that the carrier failed or delayed to issue the policy to the employer covered by this report.
[80 FR 12933, Mar. 12, 2015]
§ 703.119
[Reserved]
§ 703.120
Name of one employer only in each report.
For policies that are reported to DLHWC on Form LS-570 (Carrier's Report of Issuance of Policy), a separate report of the issuance of a policy and endorsement, provided for by § 703.116, must be made for each employer covered by a policy. If a policy is issued insuring more than one employer, a separate form LS-570 for each employer so covered must be sent to DLHWC in the manner described in § 703.116, with the name of only one employer on each form.
[80 FR 12933, Mar. 12, 2015]

# Subpart C—Insurance Carrier Security Deposit Requirements

# Source:
70 FR 43234, July 26, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 703.201
Deposits of security by insurance carriers.
The regulations in this subpart require certain insurance carriers to deposit security in the form of indemnity bonds, letters of credit or negotiable securities (chosen at the option of the carrier) of a kind and in an amount determined by the Office, and prescribe the conditions under which deposits must be made. Security deposits secure the payment of compensation and medical benefits when an insurance carrier defaults on any of its obligations under the LHWCA, regardless of the date such obligations arose. They also secure the payment of compensation and medical benefits when a carrier becomes insolvent and such obligations are not otherwise fully secured by a State guaranty fund. Any gap in State guaranty fund coverage will have a direct effect on the amount of security the Office will require a carrier to post.
As used in this subpart, the terms “obligations under the Act” and “LHWCA obligations” mean a carrier's liability for compensation payments and medical benefits arising under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and any of its extensions.
§ 703.202
Identification of significant gaps in State guaranty fund coverage for LHWCA obligations.
(a) In determining the amount of a carrier's required security deposit, the Office will consider the extent to which a State guaranty fund secures the insurance carrier's LHWCA obligations in that State. When evaluating State guaranty funds, the Office may consider a number of factors including, but not limited to—
(1) Limits on weekly benefit amounts;
(2) Limits on aggregate maximum benefit amounts;
(3) Time limits on coverage;
(4) Ocean marine exclusions;
(5) Employer size and viability provisions; and
(6) Financial strength of the State guaranty fund itself.
(b) OWCP will identify States without guaranty funds and States with guaranty funds that do not fully and immediately secure LHWCA obligations and will post its findings on the Internet at
http://www.dol.gov/owcp/dlhwc.
These findings will indicate the extent of any partial or total gap in coverage provided by a State guaranty fund, and they will be open for inspection and comment by all interested parties. If the extent of coverage a particular State guaranty fund provides either cannot be determined or is ambiguous, OWCP will deem one third (33
1/3
percent) of a carrier's LHWCA obligations in that State to be unsecured. OWCP will revise its findings from time to time, in response to substantiated public comments it receives or for any other reasons it considers relevant.
[70 FR 43234, July 26, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 703.203
Application for security deposit determination; information to be submitted; other requirements.
(a) Each insurance carrier authorized by OWCP to write insurance under the LHWCA or any of its extensions, and each insurance carrier seeking initial authorization to write such insurance, must apply annually, on a schedule set by OWCP, for a determination of the extent of its unsecured obligations and the security deposit required. The application must be addressed to the Branch of Financial Management and Insurance (Branch) within OWCP's Division of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation, and be made on a form provided by OWCP. The application must contain the following:
(1) Any carrier seeking an exemption from the security deposit requirements based on its financial standing (
see
§ 703.204(c)(1)) must submit documentation establishing the carrier's current rating and its rating for the immediately preceding year from each insurance rating service designated by the Branch and posted on the Internet at
http://www.dol.gov/owcp/dlhwc.
(2) All other carriers, and any carrier whose exemption request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section has been denied, must provide—
(i) A statement of the carrier's outstanding liabilities under the LHWCA or any of its extensions for its LHWCA obligations for each State in which the obligations arise; and
(ii) Any other information the Branch requests to enable it to give the application adequate consideration including, but not limited to, the reports set forth at § 703.212.
(b) If the carrier disagrees with any of OWCP's findings regarding State guaranty funds made under § 703.202(b) as they exist when it submits its application, the carrier may submit a statement of its unsecured obligations based on a different conclusion regarding the extent of coverage afforded by one or more State guaranty funds. The carrier must submit evidence and/or argument with its application sufficient to establish that such conclusion is correct.
(c) The carrier must sign and swear to the application. If the carrier is not an individual, the carrier's duly authorized officer must sign and swear to
the application and list his or her official designation. If the carrier is a corporation, the officer must also affix the corporate seal.
(d) At any time after filing an application, the carrier must inform the Branch immediately of any material changes that may have rendered its application incomplete, inaccurate or misleading.
(e) By filing an application, the carrier consents to be bound by and to comply with the regulations and requirements in this part.
[70 FR 43234, July 26, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 703.204
Decision on insurance carrier's application; minimum amount of deposit.
(a) The Branch will issue a decision on the application determining the extent of an insurance carrier's unsecured LHWCA obligations and fixing the amount of security the carrier must deposit to fully secure payment of its unsecured obligations. The Branch will transmit its decision to the applicant in a way it considers appropriate.
(b) The Branch may consider a number of factors in setting the security deposit amount including, but not limited to, the—
(1) Financial strength of the carrier as determined by private insurance rating organizations;
(2) Financial strength of the carrier's insureds in the Longshore industry;
(3) Extent to which State guaranty funds secure the carrier's LHWCA obligations in the event the carrier defaults on its obligations or becomes insolvent;
(4) Carrier's longevity in writing LHWCA or other workers' compensation coverage;
(5) Extent of carrier's exposure for LHWCA coverage; and
(6) Carrier's payment history in satisfying its LHWCA obligations.
(c) In setting the security deposit amount, the Branch will follow these criteria:
(1) Carriers who hold the highest rating awarded by each of the three insurance rating services designated by the Branch and posted on the Internet at
http://www.dol.gov/owcp/dlhwc
for both the current rating year and the immediately preceding year will not be required to deposit security.
(2) Carriers whose LHWCA obligations are fully secured by one or more State guaranty funds, as evaluated by OWCP under § 703.202 of this subpart, will not be required to deposit security.
(3) The Branch will require all carriers not meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section to deposit security for their LHWCA obligations not secured by a State guaranty fund, as evaluated by OWCP under § 703.202 of this subpart. For carriers that write only an insignificant or incidental amount of LHWCA insurance, the Branch will require a deposit in an amount determined by the Branch from time to time. For all other carriers, the Branch will require a minimum deposit of one third (33
1/3
percent) of a carrier s outstanding LHWCA obligations not secured by a State guaranty fund, but may require a deposit up to an amount equal to the carrier's total outstanding LHWCA obligations (100 percent) not secured by a State guaranty fund.
(d) If a carrier believes that a lesser deposit would fully secure its LHWCA obligations, the carrier may request a hearing before the Director of the Division of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation (Longshore Director) or the Longshore Director's representative. Requests for hearing must be in writing and sent to the Branch within 10 days of the date of the Branch's decision. The carrier may submit new evidence and/or argument in support of its challenge to the Branch's decision and must provide any additional documentation OWCP requests. The Longshore Director or his representative will notify the carrier of the hearing date within 10 days of receiving the request. The Longshore Director or his representative will issue the final agency decision on the application within 60 days of the hearing date, or, where evidence is submitted after the hearing, within 60 days of the receipt of such evidence, but no later than 180 days after receiving the carrier's request for a hearing.
[70 FR 43234, July 26, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]
§ 703.205
Filing of Agreement and Undertaking; deposit of security.
Within 45 days of the date on which the insurance carrier receives the Branch's decision (or, if the carrier requests a hearing, a period set by the Longshore Director or the Longshore Director's representative) determining the extent of its unsecured LHWCA obligations and fixing the required security deposit amount (
see
§ 703.204), the carrier must:
(a) Execute and file with the Branch an Agreement and Undertaking, in a form prescribed and provided by OWCP, in which the carrier shall agree to—
(1) Deposit with the Branch indemnity bonds or letters of credit in the amount fixed by the Office, or deposit negotiable securities under §§ 703.207 and 703.208 in that amount;
(2) Authorize the Branch, at its discretion, to bring suit under any deposited indemnity bond or to draw upon any deposited letters of credit, as appropriate under the terms of the security instrument, or to collect the interest and principal as they become due on any deposited negotiable securities and to sell or otherwise liquidate such negotiable securities or any part thereof when—
(i) The carrier defaults on any of its LHWCA obligations;
(ii) The carrier fails to renew any deposited letter of credit or substitute a new letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in its place;
(iii) The carrier fails to renew any deposited negotiable securities at maturity or substitute a letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in their place;
(iv) State insolvency proceedings are initiated against the carrier; or
(v) The carrier fails to comply with any of the terms of the Agreement and Undertaking; and
(3) Authorize the Branch, at its discretion, to pay such ongoing claims of the carrier as it may find to be due and payable from the proceeds of the deposited security;
(b) Give security in the amount fixed in the Office's decision:
(1) In the form of an indemnity bond with sureties satisfactory to the Branch and in such form, and containing such provisions, as the Branch may prescribe:
Provided
, That only surety companies approved by the United States Treasury Department under the laws of the United States and the rules and regulations governing bonding companies may act as sureties on such indemnity bonds (
see
Department of Treasury's Circular-570), and that a surety company that is a corporate subsidiary of an insurance carrier may not act as surety on such carrier's indemnity bond;
(2) In the form of letters of credit issued by a financial institution satisfactory to the Branch and upon which the Branch may draw; or
(3) By a deposit of negotiable securities with a Federal Reserve Bank or the Treasurer of the United States in compliance with §§ 703.207 and 703.208.
§ 703.206
[Reserved]
§ 703.207
Kinds of negotiable securities that may be deposited; conditions of deposit; acceptance of deposits.
An insurance carrier electing to deposit negotiable securities to secure its obligations under the Act in the amount fixed by the Office under the regulations in this part shall deposit any negotiable securities acceptable as security for the deposit of public monies of the United States under regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. (
See
31 CFR part 225.) The approval, valuation, acceptance, and custody of such securities is hereby committed to the several Federal Reserve Banks and the Treasurer of the United States.
§ 703.208
Deposits of negotiable securities with Federal Reserve banks or the Treasurer of the United States; interest thereon.
Deposits of negotiable securities provided for by the regulations in this part must be made with any Federal Reserve bank or any branch of a Federal Reserve bank designated by the Branch, or the Treasurer of the United States, and must be held subject to the order of the Branch. The Branch will authorize the insurance carrier to collect interest on the securities it deposits unless any of the conditions set forth at § 703.211(a) occur.
§ 703.209
Substitution and withdrawal of indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities.
(a) A carrier may not substitute other security for any indemnity bond or letters of credit deposited under the regulations in this part except when authorized by the Branch. A carrier may, however, substitute negotiable securities acceptable under the regulations in this part for previously-deposited negotiable securities without the Branch's prior approval.
(b) A carrier that has ceased to write insurance under the Act may apply to the Branch for withdrawal of its security deposit. The carrier must file with its application a sworn statement setting forth—
(1) A list of all cases in each State in which the carrier is paying compensation, together with the names of the employees and other beneficiaries, a description of causes of injury or death, and a statement of the amount of compensation paid;
(2) A similar list of all pending cases in which the carrier has not yet paid compensation; and
(3) A similar list of all cases in which injury or death has occurred within one year before such application or in which the last payment of compensation was made within one year before such application.
(c) The Branch may authorize withdrawal of previously-deposited indemnity bonds, letters of credit and negotiable securities that, in the opinion of the Branch, are not necessary to provide adequate security for the payment of the carrier's outstanding and potential LHWCA liabilities. No withdrawals will be authorized unless there has been no claim activity involving the carrier for a minimum of five years, and the Branch is reasonably certain that no further claims will arise.
§ 703.210
Increase or reduction in security deposit amount.
(a) Whenever the Office considers the security deposited by an insurance carrier insufficient to fully secure the carrier's LHWCA obligations, the carrier must, upon demand by the Branch, deposit additional security in accordance with the regulations in this part in an amount fixed by the Branch. The Branch will issue its decision requiring additional security in accordance with § 703.204, and the procedures set forth at §§ 703.204(d) and 703.205 for requesting a hearing and complying with the Office's decision will apply as appropriate.
(b) The Branch may reduce the required security at any time on its own initiative, or upon application of a carrier, when in the Branch's opinion the facts warrant a reduction. A carrier seeking a reduction must furnish any information the Office requests regarding its outstanding LHWCA obligations for any State in which it does business, its obligations not secured by a State guaranty fund in each of these States, and any other evidence as the Branch considers necessary.
§ 703.211
Authority to seize security deposit; use and/or return of proceeds.
(a) The Office may take any of the actions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section when an insurance carrier—
(1) Defaults on any of its LHWCA obligations;
(2) Fails to renew any deposited letter of credit or substitute a new letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in its place;
(3) Fails to renew any deposited negotiable securities at maturity or substitute a letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in their place;
(4) Has State insolvency proceedings initiated against it; or
(5) Fails to comply with any of the terms of the Agreement and Undertaking.
(b) When any of the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section occur, the Office may, within its discretion and as appropriate to the security instrument—
(1) Bring suit under any indemnity bond;
(2) Draw upon any letters of credit;
(3) Seize any negotiable securities, collect the interest and principal as they may become due, and sell or otherwise liquidate the negotiable securities or any part thereof.
(c) When the Office, within its discretion, determines that it no longer
needs to collect the interest and principal of any negotiable securities seized pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or to retain the proceeds of their sale, it must return any of the carrier's negotiable securities still in its possession and any remaining proceeds of their sale.
§ 703.212
Required reports; examination of insurance carrier accounts.
(a) Upon the Office's request, each insurance carrier must submit the following reports:
(1) A certified financial statement of the carrier's assets and liabilities, or a balance sheet.
(2) A sworn statement showing the extent of the carrier's unsecured LHWCA obligations for each State in which it is authorized to write insurance under the LHWCA or any of its extensions.
(3) A sworn statement reporting the carrier's open cases as of the date of such report, listing by State all death and injury cases, together with a report of the status of all outstanding claims.
(b) Whenever it considers necessary, the Office may inspect or examine a carrier's books of account, records, and other papers to verify any financial statement or other information the carrier furnished to the Office in any statement or report required by this section, or any other section of the regulations in this part. The carrier must permit the Office or its duly authorized representative to make the inspection or examination. Alternatively, the Office may accept an adequate independent audit by a certified public accountant.
§ 703.213
Failure to comply.
The Office may suspend or revoke a carrier's certificate of authority to write LHWCA insurance under § 703.106 when the carrier fails to comply with any of the requirements of this part.

# Subpart D—Authorization of Self-Insurers

# Source:
70 FR 43234, July 26, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 703.301
Employers who may be authorized as self-insurers.
The regulations in this subpart set forth procedures for authorizing employers to self-insure the payment of compensation under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, or its extensions. The Office may authorize any employer to self-insure who, pursuant to the regulations in this part, furnishes to the Office satisfactory proof of its ability to pay compensation directly, and who agrees to immediately cancel any existing insurance policy covering its Longshore obligations (except for excess or catastrophic workers' compensation insurance,
see
§§ 703.302(a)(6), 703.304(a)(6)) when OWCP approves the employer's application to be self-insured. The regulations require self-insurers to deposit security in the form of an indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities (at the option of the employer) of a kind and in an amount determined by the Office, and prescribe the conditions under which such deposits shall be made. The term “self-insurer” as used in these regulations means any employer securing the payment of compensation under the LHWCA or its extensions in accordance with the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 932(a)(2) and these regulations.
§ 703.302
Application for authority to become a self-insurer; how filed; information to be submitted; other requirements.
(a) Any employer may apply to become an authorized self-insurer. The application must be addressed to the Branch of Financial Management and Insurance (Branch) within OWCP's Division of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation, and be made on a form provided by OWCP. The application must contain—
(1) A statement of the employer's total payroll for the 12 months before the application date;
(2) A statement of the average number of employees engaged in employment within the purview of the LHWCA or any of its extensions for the 12 months before the application date;
(3) A statement of the number of injuries to such employees resulting in
disability of more than 7 days' duration, or in death, during each of the 5 years before the application date;
(4) A certified financial report for each of the three years before the application date;
(5) A description of the facilities maintained or the arrangements made for the medical and hospital care of injured employees;
(6) A statement describing the provisions and maximum amount of any excess or catastrophic insurance; and
(7) Any other information the Branch requests to enable it to give the application adequate consideration including, but not limited to, the reports set forth at § 703.310.
(b) The employer must sign and swear to the application. If the employer is not an individual, the employer's duly authorized officer must sign and swear to the application and list his or her official designation. If the employer is a corporation, the officer must also affix the corporate seal.
(c) At any time after filing an application, the employer must inform the Branch immediately of any material changes that may have rendered its application incomplete, inaccurate or misleading.
(d) By filing an application, the employer consents to be bound by and to comply with the regulations and requirements in this part.
§ 703.303
Decision on employer's application.
(a) The Branch will issue a decision granting or denying the employer's application to be an authorized self-insurer. If the Branch grants the application, the decision will fix the amount of security the employer must deposit. The Branch will transmit its decision to the employer in a way it considers appropriate.
(b) The employer is authorized to self-insure beginning with the date of the Branch's decision. Each grant of authority to self-insure is conditioned, however, upon the employer's execution and filing of an Agreement and Undertaking and deposit of the security fixed in the decision in the form and within the time limits required by § 703.304. In the event the employer fails to comply with the requirements set forth in § 703.304, its authorization to self-insure will be considered never to have been effective, and the employer will be subject to appropriate penalties for failure to secure its LHWCA obligations.
(c) The Branch will require security in the amount it considers necessary to fully secure the employer's LHWCA obligations. When fixing the amount of security, the Branch may consider a number of factors including, but not limited to, the—
(1) Employer's overall financial standing;
(2) Nature of the employer's work;
(3) Hazard of the work in which the employees are employed;
(4) Employer's payroll amount for employees engaged in employment within the purview of the Act; and
(5) Employer's accident record as shown in the application and the Office's records.
(d) If an employer believes that the Branch incorrectly denied its application to self-insure, or that a lesser security deposit would fully secure its LHWCA obligations, the employer may request a hearing before the Director of the Division of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation (Longshore Director) or the Longshore Director's representative. Requests for hearing must be in writing and sent to the Branch within ten days of the date of the Branch's decision. The employer may submit new evidence and/or argument in support of its challenge to the Branch's decision and must provide any additional documentation OWCP requests. The Longshore Director or his representative will notify the employer of the hearing date within 10 days of receiving the request. The Longshore Director or his representative will issue the final agency decision on the application within 60 days of the hearing date, or, where evidence is submitted after the hearing, within 60 days of the receipt of such evidence, but no later than 180 days after receiving the employer's request for a hearing.
§ 703.304
Filing of Agreement and Undertaking; deposit of security.
Within 45 days of the date on which the employer receives the Branch's decision (or, if the employer requests a hearing, a period set by the Longshore Director or the Longshore Director's representative) granting its application to self-insure and fixing the required security deposit amount (
see
§ 703.303), the employer must:
(a) Execute and file with the Branch an Agreement and Undertaking, in a form prescribed and provided by OWCP, in which the employer shall agree to:
(1) Pay when due, as required by the provisions of the Act, all compensation payable on account of injury or death of any of its employees injured within the purview of the Act;
(2) Furnish medical, surgical, hospital, and other attendance, treatment and care as required by the Act;
(3) Deposit with the Branch indemnity bonds or letters of credit in the amount fixed by the Office, or deposit negotiable securities under §§ 703.306 and 703.307 in that amount;
(4) Authorize the Branch, at its discretion, to bring suit under any deposited indemnity bond or to draw upon any deposited letters of credit, as appropriate under the terms of the security instrument, or to collect the interest and principal as they become due on any deposited negotiable securities and to seize and sell or otherwise liquidate such negotiable securities or any part thereof when the employer:
(i) Defaults on any of its LHWCA obligations;
(ii) Fails to renew any deposited letter of credit or substitute a new letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in its place;
(iii) Fails to renew any deposited negotiable securities at maturity or substitute a letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in their place; or
(iv) Fails to comply with any of the terms of the Agreement and Undertaking;
(5) Authorize the Branch, at its discretion, to pay such compensation, medical, and other expenses and any accrued penalties imposed by law as it may find to be due and payable from the proceeds of the deposited security; and
(6) Obtain and maintain, if required by the Office, excess or catastrophic insurance in amounts to be determined by the Office.
(b) Give security in the amount fixed in the Office's decision:
(1) In the form of an indemnity bond with sureties satisfactory to the Office, and in such form and containing such provisions as the Office may prescribe:
Provided
, That only surety companies approved by the United States Treasury Department under the laws of the United States and the rules and regulations governing bonding companies may act as sureties on such indemnity bonds (
see
Department of Treasury's Circular-570);
(2) In the form of letters of credit issued by a financial institution satisfactory to the Branch and upon which the Branch may draw; or,
(3) By a deposit of negotiable securities with a Federal Reserve Bank or the Treasurer of the United States in compliance with §§ 703.306 and 703.307.
§ 703.305
[Reserved]
§ 703.306
Kinds of negotiable securities that may be deposited; conditions of deposit; acceptance of deposits.
A self-insurer or a self-insurer applicant electing to deposit negotiable securities to secure its obligations under the Act in the amount fixed by the Office under the regulations in this part shall deposit any negotiable securities acceptable as security for the deposit of public monies of the United States under regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. (
See
31 CFR part 225.) The approval, valuation, acceptance, and custody of such securities is hereby committed to the several Federal Reserve Banks and the Treasurer of the United States.
§ 703.307
Deposits of negotiable securities with Federal Reserve banks or the Treasurer of the United States; interest thereon.
Deposits of negotiable securities provided for by the regulations in this part shall be made with any Federal Reserve bank or any branch of a Federal Reserve bank designated by the Office, or the Treasurer of the United
States, and shall be held subject to the order of the Office. The Office will authorize the self-insurer to collect interest on the securities deposited by it unless any of the conditions set forth at § 703.304(a)(4) occur.
§ 703.308
Substitution and withdrawal of indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities.
(a) A self-insurer may not substitute other security for any indemnity bond or letters of credit deposited under the regulations in this part except when authorized by the Office. A self-insurer may, however, substitute negotiable securities acceptable under the regulations in this part for previously-deposited negotiable securities without the Office's prior approval.
(b) A self-insurer discontinuing business, discontinuing operations within the purview of the Act, or securing the payment of compensation by commercial insurance under the provisions of the Act may apply to the Office for the withdrawal of the security it provided under the regulations in this part. The self-insurer must file with its application a sworn statement setting forth—
(1) A list of all cases in each compensation district in which the self-insurer is paying compensation, together with the names of the employees and other beneficiaries, a description of causes of injury or death, and a statement of the amount of compensation paid;
(2) A similar list of all pending cases in which the self-insurer has not yet paid compensation; and
(3) A similar list of all cases in which injury or death has occurred within one year before such application or in which the last payment of compensation was made within one year before such application.
(c) The Office may authorize withdrawal of previously-deposited indemnity bonds, letters of credit and negotiable securities that, in the opinion of the Office, are not necessary to provide adequate security for the payment of the self-insurer's outstanding and potential LHWCA obligations. No withdrawals will be authorized unless there has been no claim activity involving the self-insurer for a minimum of five years, and the Office is reasonably certain no further claims will arise.
§ 703.309
Increase or reduction in the amount of indemnity bond, letters of credit or negotiable securities.
(a) Whenever the Office considers the principal sum of the indemnity bond or letters of credit filed or the amount of the negotiable securities deposited by a self-insurer insufficient to fully secure the self-insurer's LHWCA obligations, the self-insurer must, upon demand by the Office, deposit additional security in accordance with the regulations in this part in an amount fixed by the Branch. The Branch will issue its decision requiring additional security in accordance with § 703.303, and the procedures set forth at §§ 703.303(d) and 703.304 for requesting a hearing and complying with the Office's decision will apply as appropriate.
(b) The Office may reduce the required security at any time on its own initiative, or upon application of a self-insurer, when in the Office's opinion the facts warrant a reduction. A self-insurer seeking a reduction must furnish any information the Office requests regarding its current affairs, the nature and hazard of the work of its employees, the amount of its payroll for employees engaged in maritime employment within the purview of the Act, its financial condition, its accident experience, a record of compensation payments it has made, and any other evidence the Branch considers necessary.
§ 703.310
Authority to seize security deposit; use and/or return of proceeds.
(a) The Office may take any of the actions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section when a self-insurer—
(1) Defaults on any of its LHWCA obligations;
(2) Fails to renew any deposited letter of credit or substitute a new letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in its place;
(3) Fails to renew any deposited negotiable securities at maturity or substitute a letter of credit, indemnity bond or acceptable negotiable securities in their place; or
(4) Fails to comply with any of the terms of the Agreement and Undertaking.
(b) When any of the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section occur, the Office may, within its discretion and as appropriate to the security instrument—
(1) Bring suit under any indemnity bond;
(2) Draw upon any letters of credit;
(3) Seize any negotiable securities, collect the interest and principal as they may become due, and sell or otherwise liquidate the negotiable securities or any part thereof.
(c) When the Office, within its discretion, determines that it no longer needs to collect the interest and principal of any negotiable securities seized pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or to retain the proceeds of their sale, it must return any of the employer's negotiable securities still in its possession and any remaining proceeds of their sale.
§ 703.311
Required reports; examination of self-insurer accounts.
(a) Upon the Office's request, each self-insurer must submit the following reports:
(1) A certified financial statement of the self-insurer's assets and liabilities, or a balance sheet.
(2) A sworn statement showing by classifications the payroll of employees of the self-insurer who are engaged in employment within the purview of the LHWCA or any of its extensions.
(3) A sworn statement covering the six-month period preceding the date of such report, listing by compensation districts all death and injury cases which have occurred during such period, together with a report of the status of all outstanding claims showing the particulars of each case.
(b) Whenever it considers necessary, the Office may inspect or examine a self-insurer's books of account, records, and other papers to verify any financial statement or other information the self-insurer furnished to the Office in any report required by this section, or any other section of the regulations in this part. The self-insurer must permit the Office or its duly authorized representative to make the inspection or examination. Alternatively, the Office may accept an adequate report of a certified public accountant.
§ 703.312
Period of authorization as self-insurer.
(a) Self-insurance authorizations will remain in effect for so long as the self-insurer complies with the requirements of the Act, the regulations in this part, and OWCP.
(b) A self-insurer who has secured its liability by depositing an indemnity bond with the Office will, on or about May 10 of each year, receive from the Office a form for executing a bond that will continue its self-insurance authorization. The submission of such bond, duly executed in the amount indicated by the Office, will be deemed a condition of the continuing authorization.
§ 703.313
Revocation of authorization to self-insure.
The Office may for good cause shown suspend or revoke the authorization of any self-insurer. Failure by a self-insurer to comply with any provision or requirement of law or of the regulations in this part, or with any lawful order or communication of the Office, or the failure or insolvency of the surety on its indemnity bond, or impairment of financial responsibility of such self-insurer, shall be deemed good cause for suspension or revocation.

# Subpart E—Issuance of Certificates of Compliance
§ 703.501
Issuance of certificates of compliance.
Every employer who has secured the payment of compensation as required by 33 U.S.C. 932 and by the regulations in this part may request a certificate from the district director in the compensation district in which he has operations, and for which a certificate is required by 33 U.S.C. 937, showing that such employer has secured the payment of compensation. Only one such certificate will be issued to an employer in a compensation district, and it will be valid only during the period for which such employer has secured such payment. An employer so desiring may have photocopies of such a certificate made for use in different places
within the compensation district. Two forms of such certificates have been provided by the Office, one form for use where the employer has obtained insurance generally under these regulations, and one for use where the employer has been authorized as a self-insurer.
§ 703.502
[Reserved]
§ 703.503
Return of certificates of compliance.
Upon the termination by expiration, cancellation or otherwise, of a policy of insurance issued under the provisions of law and these regulations, or the revocation or termination of the privilege of self-insurance granted by the Office, all certificates of compliance issued on the basis of such insurance or self-insurance shall be void and shall be returned by the employer to the district director issuing them with a statement of the reason for such return. An employer holding certificate of compliance under an insurance policy which has expired, pending renewal of such insurance need not return such certificate of compliance if such expired insurance is promptly replaced. An employer who has secured renewal of insurance upon the expiration of policy under said Act or whose self-insurance thereunder is reauthorized without a break in the continuity thereof need not return an expired certificate of compliance.
Pt. 704

# PART 704—SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LHWCA EXTENSIONS
Sec.
704.001
Extensions covered by this part.
704.002
Scope of part.

# Defense Base Act
704.101
Administration; compensation districts.
704.102
Commutation of payments to aliens and nonresidents.
704.103
Removal of certain minimums when computing or paying compensation.
704.151
DBA endorsement.

# District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act
704.201
Administration; compensation districts.
704.251
DCCA endorsement.

# Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
704.301
Administration; compensation districts.
704.351
OCSLA endorsement.

# Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act
704.401
Administration; compensation districts.
704.451
NFIA endorsement.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Reorg. Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174, 64 Stat. 1263; 33 U.S.C. 939; 36 D.C. Code 501
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 1651
et seq.;
43 U.S.C. 1331; 5 U.S.C. 6171
et seq.;
Secretary's Order 1-89; Employment Standards Order No. 90-02.

# Source:
38 FR 26877, Sept. 26, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 704.001
Extensions covered by this part.
(a) Defense Base Act (DBA).
(b) District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act (DCCA).
(c) Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA).
(d) Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act (NFIA).
§ 704.002
Scope of part.
The regulations governing the administration of the LHWCA as set forth in parts 702 and 703 of this subchapter govern the administration of the LHWCA extensions (see § 704.001) in nearly every respect, and are not repeated in this part 704. Such special provisions as are necessary to the proper administration of each of the extensions are set forth in this part. To the extent of any inconsistency between regulations in parts 702 and 703 of this subchapter and those in this part, the latter supersedes those in parts 702 and 703 of this subchapter.

# Defense Base Act
§ 704.101
Administration; compensation districts.
For the purpose of administration of this Act areas assigned to the compensation districts established for administration of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act as set forth in part 702 of this subchapter shall be extended in the following manner to include:
(a) Canada, east of the 75th degree west longitude, Newfoundland, and
Greenland are assigned to District No. 1.
(b) Canada, west of the 75th degree and east of the 110th degree west longitude, is assigned to District No. 10.
(c) Canada, west of the 110th degree west longitude, and all areas in the Pacific Ocean north of the 45th degree north latitude are assigned to District No. 14.
(d) All areas west of the continents of North and South America (except coastal islands) to the 60th degree east longitude, except for Iran, are assigned to District No. 15.
(e) Mexico, Central and South America (including coastal islands); areas east of the continents of North and South America to the 60th degree east longitude, including Iran, and any other areas or locations not covered under any other district office, are assigned to District No. 2.
§ 704.102
Commutation of payments to aliens and nonresidents.
Authority to commute payments to aliens and nonnationals who are not residents of the United States and Canada, section 2(b) of the Defense Base Act, 42 U.S.C. 1652(b), though separately stated in this Act, is identical in language to section 9(g) of the Longshoremen's Act. Thus, except for the different statutory citation, the LHWCA regulation at § 702.142 of this subchapter shall apply.
§ 704.103
Removal of certain minimums when computing or paying compensation.
The minimum limitation on weekly compensation for disability established by section 6 of the LHWCA, 33 U.S.C. 906, and the minimum limit on the average weekly wages on which death benefits are to be computed under section 9 of the LHWCA, 33 U.S.C. 909, shall not apply in computing compensation and death benefits under this Act; section 2(a), 42 U.S.C. 1652(a).
§ 704.151
DBA endorsement.
The following form of endorsement applicable to the standard workmen's compensation and employers' liability policy shall be used, if required by the OWCP, with the form of policy approved by the Office for use by an authorized carrier:
For attachment to Policy No. __,
The obligations of the policy include the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as extended by the provisions of the Defense Base Act, and all laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto which may be or become effective while this policy is in force.
The Company will be subject to the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 935. Insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer and/or discharge therein shall not relieve the Company from payment of compensation and other benefits lawfully due for disability or death sustained by an employee during the life of the policy.
The Company agrees to abide by all the provisions of said Acts and all lawful rules, regulations, orders, and decisions of the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, unless and until set aside, modified, or reversed by appropriate appellate authority as provided for by said Acts.
This endorsement shall not be canceled prior to the date specified in this policy for its expiration until at least 30 days have elapsed after a notice of cancellation has been sent to the District Director and to this employer.
All terms, conditions, requirements, and obligations expressed in this policy or in any other endorsement attached thereto which are not inconsistent with or inapplicable to the provisions of this endorsement are hereby made a part of this endorsement as fully and completely as if wholly written herein.

# District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act
§ 704.201
Administration; compensation districts.
For the purpose of administration of this Act, the District of Columbia shall be the compensation district and is designated as District No. 40.
§ 704.251
DCCA endorsement.
The following form of endorsement applicable to the standard workmen's compensation and employer's liability policy shall be used, if required by the OWCP, with the form of policy approved by the Office for use by an authorized carrier:
For attachment to Policy No. __,
The obligations of the policy include the District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act, and the applicable provisions of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, and all laws amendatory of
either of said Acts or supplementary thereto which may be or become effective while this policy is in force.
The company will be subject to the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 935. Insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer and/or discharge therein shall not relieve the company from payment of compensation and other benefits lawfully due for disability or death sustained by an employee during the life of the policy.
The company agrees to abide by all the provisions of said District of Columbia Workmen's Compensation Act and all lawful rules, regulations, orders, and decisions of the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, unless and until set aside, modified, or reversed by appropriate appellate authority as provided for by said Act.
This endorsement shall not be canceled prior to the date specified in this policy for its expiration until at least 30 days have elapsed after a notice of cancellation has been sent to the District Director for the District of Columbia and to this employer.
All terms, conditions, requirements, and obligations expressed in this policy or in any other endorsement attached thereto which are not inconsistent with or inapplicable to the provisions of this endorsement are hereby made a part of this endorsement as fully and completely as if wholly written herein.

# Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
§ 704.301
Administration; compensation districts.
For the purpose of administration of this Act, the compensation districts established under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act as set forth in part 702 of this subchapter shall administer this Act, and their jurisdiction for this purpose is extended, where appropriate, to include those parts of the Outer Continental Shelf adjacent to the State or States in such districts having adjacent shelf areas.
§ 704.351
OCSLA endorsement.
The following form of endorsement applicable to the standard workmen's compensation and employer's liability policy shall be used, if required by the OWCP, with the form of policy approved by the Office for use by an authorized carrier:
For attachment to Policy No. __,
The obligations of the policy include the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as extended by the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, and all the laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto which may be or become effective while this policy is in force.
The company will be subject to the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 935. Insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer and/or discharge therein shall not relieve the company from payment of compensation and other benefits lawfully due for disability or death sustained by an employee during the life of the policy.
The company agrees to abide by all the provisions of said laws and all the lawful rules, regulations, orders and decisions of the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, until set aside, modified, or reversed by appropriate appellate authority as provided for by said Acts.
This endorsement shall not be canceled prior to the date specified in this policy for its expiration until at least 30 days have elapsed after a notice of cancellation has been sent to the District Director and to his employer.
All terms, conditions, requirements, and obligations expressed in this policy or in any other endorsement attached thereto which are not inconsistent with or inapplicable to the provisions of this endorsement are hereby made a part of this endorsement as fully and completely as if wholly written herein.

# Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act
§ 704.401
Administration; compensation districts.
For the purpose of administration of this Act within the continental United States, Hawaii, and Alaska, the compensation districts established for administration of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act as set forth in part 702 of this subchapter are established as the administrative districts under this Act. For the purpose of administration of this Act outside the continental United States, Alaska, and Hawaii, the compensation districts established for such overseas administration of the Defense Base Act as set forth in § 704.101 are established as the administrative districts under this Act.
§ 704.451
NFIA endorsement.
The following form of endorsement applicable to the standard workmen's compensation and employer's liability policy shall be used, if required by the OWCP, with the form of policy approved by the Office for use by an authorized carrier:
For attachment to Policy No. __,
The obligations of the policy include the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as extended by the Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities Act, and all of the laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto which may be or become effective while this policy is in force.
The company will be subject to the provisions of 33 U.S.C 935. Insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer and/or discharge therein shall not relieve the company from payment of compensation and other benefits lawfully due for disability or death sustained by an employee during the life of the policy.
The company agrees to abide by all the provisions of said Acts and all the lawful rules, regulations, orders, and decisions of the Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, unless and until set aside, modified, or reversed by appropriate appellate authority as provided for by said Acts.
This endorsement shall not be canceled prior to the date specified in this policy for its expiration until at least 30 days have elapsed after a notice of cancellation has been sent to the District Director and to the within named employer.
All terms, conditions, requirements, and obligations expressed in this policy or in any other endorsement attached thereto which are not inconsistent with or inapplicable to the provisions of this endorsement are hereby made a part of this endorsement as fully and completely as if wholly written herein.

# SUBCHAPTER B—FEDERAL COAL MINE HEALTH AND SAFETY ACT OF 1969, AS AMENDED
Pt. 718

# PART 718—STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING COAL MINERS' TOTAL DISABILITY OR DEATH DUE TO PNEUMOCONIOSIS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
718.1
Statutory provisions.
718.2
Applicability of this part.
718.3
Scope and intent of this part.
718.4
Definitions and use of terms.
718.5
Incorporations by reference.

# Subpart B—Criteria for the Development of Medical Evidence
718.101
General.
718.102
Chest radiographs (X-rays).
718.103
Pulmonary function tests.
718.104
Report of physical examinations.
718.105
Arterial blood-gas studies.
718.106
Autopsy; biopsy.
718.107
Other medical evidence.

# Subpart C—Determining Entitlement to Benefits
718.201
Definition of pneumoconiosis.
718.202
Determining the existence of pneumoconiosis.
718.203
Establishing relationship of pneumoconiosis to coal mine employment.
718.204
Total disability and disability causation defined; criteria for determining total disability and total disability due to pneumoconiosis.
718.205
Death due to pneumoconiosis.
718.206
Effect of findings by persons or agencies.

# Subpart D—Presumptions Applicable to Eligibility Determinations
718.301
Establishing length of employment as a miner.
718.302
Relationship of pneumoconiosis to coal mine employment.
718.303
[Reserved]
718.304
Irrebuttable presumption of total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis.
718.305
Presumption of pneumoconiosis.
718.306
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Part 718—Standards for Administration and Interpretation of Chest Radiographs (X-rays)
Appendix B to Part 718—Standards for Administration and Interpretation of Pulmonary Function Tests. Tables B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6
Appendix C to Part 718—Blood-Gas Tables

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174; 30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
902(f), 934, 936; 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 405; Secretary's Order 10-2009, 74 FR 58834.

# Source:
45 FR 13678, Feb. 29, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 718.1
Statutory provisions.
Section 402(f) of the Act authorizes the Secretary of Labor to establish criteria for determining total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis to be applied in the processing and adjudication of claims filed under Part C of the Act. Section 402(f) further authorizes the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, to establish criteria for all appropriate medical tests administered in connection with a claim for benefits. Section 413(b) of the Act authorizes the Secretary of Labor to establish criteria for the techniques used to take chest roentgenograms (x-rays) in connection with a claim for benefits under the Act.
[78 FR 59114, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 718.2
Applicability of this part.
(a) With the exception of the second sentence of § 718.204(a), this part is applicable to the adjudication of all claims filed on or after June 30, 1982 under Part C of the Act. It provides standards for establishing entitlement to benefits under the Act and describes the criteria for the development of medical evidence used in establishing such entitlement. The second sentence of § 718.204(a) is applicable to the adjudication of all claims filed after January 19, 2001.
(b) Publication of certain provisions or parts of certain provisions that apply only to claims filed prior to June 30, 1982, or to claims subject to Section
435 of the Act, has been discontinued because those provisions affect an increasingly smaller number of claims. The version of Part 718 set forth in 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 2010, applies to the adjudication of all claims filed prior to June 30, 1982, as appropriate.
(c) The provisions of this part must, to the extent appropriate, be construed together in the adjudication of claims.
[78 FR 59114, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 718.3
Scope and intent of this part.
(a) This part sets forth the standards to be applied in determining whether a coal miner is or was totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis or died due to pneumoconiosis. It also specifies the procedures and requirements to be followed in conducting medical examinations and in administering various tests relevant to such determinations.
(b) This part is designed to interpret the presumptions contained in section 411(c) of the Act, evidentiary standards and criteria contained in section 413(b) of the Act and definitional requirements and standards contained in section 402(f) of the Act within a coherent framework for the adjudication of claims. It is intended that these enumerated provisions of the Act be construed as provided in this part.
[65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 59114, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 718.4
Definitions and use of terms.
Except as is otherwise provided by this part, the definitions and usages of terms contained in § 725.101 of subpart A of part 725 of this title shall be applicable to this part.
§ 718.5
Incorporations by reference.
(a) The materials listed in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section are incorporated by reference in this part. The Director of the Federal Register has approved these incorporations by reference under 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in these regulations, OWCP must publish notice of change in the
Federal Register.
All approved material is available from the sources listed below. You may inspect a copy of the approved material at the Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation, OWCP, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC. To arrange for an inspection at OWCP, call 202-693-0046. These materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federalregister/codeoffederalregulations/ibrlocations.html.
(b) American Association of Physicists in Medicine, Order Department, Medical Physics Publishing, 4513 Vernon Blvd., Madison, WI 53705,
http://www.aapm.org/pubs/reports:
(1) AAPM On-Line Report No. 03, Assessment of Display Performance for Medical Imaging Systems, April 2005, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(2) AAPM Report No. 93, Acceptance Testing and Quality Control of Photostimulable Storage Phosphor Imaging Systems, October 2006, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(c) American College of Radiology, 1891 Preston White Dr., Reston, VA 20191,
http://www.acr.org/~/media/ACR/Documents/PGTS/guidelines/Reference_Levels.pdf:
(1) ACR Practice Guideline for Diagnostic Reference Levels in Medical X-Ray Imaging, Revised 2008 (Resolution 3), IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(2) [Reserved]
(d) International Labour Office, CH-1211 Geneva 22, Switzerland,
http://www.ilo.org/publns:
(1) Occupational Safety and Health Series No. 22, Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, Revised edition 2011, IBR approved for § 718.102(d) and Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(2) Occupational Safety and Health Series No. 22 (Rev. 2000), Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, Revised edition 2000, IBR approved for § 718.102(d).
(3) Occupational Safety and Health Series No. 22 (Rev. 80), Guidelines for the Use of ILO International Classification of Radiographs of
Pneumoconioses, Revised edition 1980, IBR approved for § 718.102(d).
(e) National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements, NCRP Publications, 7910 Woodmont Avenue, Suite 400, Bethesda, MD 20814-3095, Telephone (800) 229-2652,
http://www.ncrppublications.org:
(1) NCRP Report No. 102, Medical X-Ray, Electron Beam, and Gamma-Ray Protection for Energies Up to 50 MeV (Equipment Design, Performance, and Use), issued June 30, 1989, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (b).
(2) NCRP Report No. 105, Radiation Protection for Medical and Allied Health Personnel, issued October 30, 1989, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (b).
(3) NCRP Report No. 147, Structural Shielding Design for Medical X-Ray Imaging Facilities, revised March 18, 2005, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (b).
(f) National Electrical Manufacturers Association, 1300 N. 17th Street, Rosslyn, VA 22209,
http://medical.nema.org:
(1) DICOM Standard PS 3.3-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 3: Information Object Definitions, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(2) DICOM Standard PS 3.4-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 4: Service Class Specifications, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(3) DICOM Standard PS 3.10-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 10: Media Storage and File Format for Media Interchange, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(4) DICOM Standard PS 3.11-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 11: Media Storage Application Profiles, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(5) DICOM Standard PS 3.12-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 12: Media Formats and Physical Media for Media Interchange, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(6) DICOM Standard PS 3.14-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 14: Grayscale Standard Display Function, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
(7) DICOM Standard PS 3.16-2011, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard, Part 16: Content Mapping Resource, copyright 2011, IBR approved for Appendix A to part 718, paragraph (d).
[79 FR 21611, Apr. 17, 2014]

# Subpart B—Criteria for the Development of Medical Evidence

# Source:
65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 718.101
General.
(a) The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (hereinafter OWCP or the Office) must develop the medical evidence necessary to determine each claimant's entitlement to benefits. Each miner who files a claim for benefits under the Act must be provided an opportunity to substantiate his or her claim by means of a complete pulmonary evaluation including, but not limited to, a chest radiograph (X-ray), physical examination, pulmonary function tests, and a blood-gas study.
(b) The standards for the administration of clinical tests and examinations contained in this subpart shall apply to all evidence developed by any party after January 19, 2001 in connection with a claim governed by this part (see §§ 725.406(b), 725.414(a), 725.456(d)). These standards shall also apply to claims governed by part 727 (see 20 CFR 725.4(d)), but only for clinical tests or examinations conducted after January 19, 2001. Any clinical test or examination subject to these standards shall be in substantial compliance with the applicable standard in order to constitute evidence of the fact for which it is proffered. Unless otherwise provided, any evidence which is not in substantial
compliance with the applicable standard is insufficient to establish the fact for which it is proffered.
[65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 35555, June 13, 2013; 79 FR 21611, Apr. 17, 2014]
§ 718.102
Chest radiographs (X-rays).
(a) A chest radiograph (X-ray) must be of suitable quality for proper classification of pneumoconiosis and must conform to the standards for administration and interpretation of chest X-rays as described in Appendix A.
(b) Chest X-rays may be produced by either film or digital radiography systems as defined in Appendix A to this part.
(c) The images described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section will not be considered of suitable quality for proper classification of pneumoconiosis under this section:
(1) Digital images derived from film screen chest X-rays (e.g., by scanning or digital photography); and
(2) Images that were acquired using digital systems and then printed on transparencies for back-lighted display (e.g., using traditional view boxes).
(d) Standards for classifying radiographs:
(1) To establish the existence of pneumoconiosis, a film chest X-ray must be classified as Category 1, 2, 3, A, B, or C, in accordance with the International Labour Organization (ILO) classification system established in one of the following:
(i) Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, revised edition 2011 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5).
(ii) Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, revised edition 2000 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5).
(iii) Guidelines for the Use of ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, revised edition 1980 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5).
(2) To establish the existence of pneumoconiosis, a digital chest radiograph must be classified as Category 1, 2, 3, A, B, or C, in accordance with the ILO classification system established in Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, revised edition 2011.
(3) A chest radiograph classified under any of the foregoing ILO classification systems as Category 0, including subcategories 0-, 0/0, or 0/1, does not constitute evidence of pneumoconiosis.
(e) An X-ray report must include the following:
(1) The name and qualifications of the person who took the X-ray.
(2) The name and qualifications of the physician who interpreted the X-ray. The interpreting physician must indicate whether he or she was a Board-certified radiologist, a Board-eligible radiologist, or a Certified B Reader as defined below on the date the interpretation was made.
(i)
Board-certified radiologist
means that the physician is certified in radiology or diagnostic radiology by the American Board of Radiology, Inc., or the American Osteopathic Association.
(ii)
Board-eligible radiologist
means that the physician has successfully completed a formal accredited residency program in radiology or diagnostic radiology.
(iii)
Certified B Reader
means that the physician has demonstrated ongoing proficiency in evaluating chest radiographs for radiographic quality and in the use of the ILO classification for interpreting chest radiographs for pneumoconiosis and other diseases by taking and passing a specially designed proficiency examination given on behalf of or by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), and has maintained that certification through the date the interpretation is made.
See
42 CFR 37.52(b).
(3) A description and interpretation of the findings in terms of the ILO classification described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) A statement that the X-ray was interpreted in compliance with this section.
(f) Radiograph Submission: For film X-rays, the original film on which the X-ray report is based must be supplied to OWCP. For digital X-rays, a copy of the original digital object upon which the X-ray report is based, formatted to meet the standards for transmission of
diagnostic chest images set forth in Appendix A, paragraph (d), must be provided to OWCP on a DVD or other media specified by OWCP. In cases where the law prohibits the parties or a physician from supplying the original film or a copy of the digital image, the report will be considered as evidence only if the original film or digital image is otherwise available to OWCP and the other parties.
(g) Where the chest X-ray of a deceased miner has been lost or destroyed, or is otherwise unavailable, a report of the chest X-ray submitted by any party may be considered in connection with the claim.
(h) Except as provided in this paragraph (h), no chest X-ray may constitute evidence of the presence or absence of pneumoconiosis unless it is conducted and reported in accordance with the requirements of this section and Appendix A. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, compliance with the requirements of Appendix A must be presumed. In the case of a deceased miner where the only available X-ray does not substantially comply with paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the X-ray may form the basis for a finding of the presence or absence of pneumoconiosis if it is of sufficient quality for determining whether pneumoconiosis is present and it was interpreted by a Board-certified radiologist, Board-eligible radiologist, or Certified B Reader.
[79 FR 21612, Apr. 17, 2014]
§ 718.103
Pulmonary function tests.
(a) Any report of pulmonary function tests submitted in connection with a claim for benefits shall record the results of flow versus volume (flow-volume loop). The instrument shall simultaneously provide records of volume versus time (spirometric tracing). The report shall provide the results of the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and the forced vital capacity (FVC). The report shall also provide the FEV1/FVC ratio, expressed as a percentage. If the maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) is reported, the results of such test shall be obtained independently rather than calculated from the results of the FEV1.
(b) All pulmonary function test results submitted in connection with a claim for benefits shall be accompanied by three tracings of the flow versus volume and the electronically derived volume versus time tracings. If the MVV is reported, two tracings of the MVV whose values are within 10% of each other shall be sufficient. Pulmonary function test results developed in connection with a claim for benefits shall also include a statement signed by the physician or technician conducting the test setting forth the following:
(1) Date and time of test;
(2) Name, DOL claim number, age, height, and weight of claimant at the time of the test;
(3) Name of technician;
(4) Name and signature of physician supervising the test;
(5) Claimant's ability to understand the instructions, ability to follow directions and degree of cooperation in performing the tests. If the claimant is unable to complete the test, the person executing the report shall set forth the reasons for such failure;
(6) Paper speed of the instrument used;
(7) Name of the instrument used;
(8) Whether a bronchodilator was administered. If a bronchodilator is administered, the physician's report must detail values obtained both before and after administration of the bronchodilator and explain the significance of the results obtained; and
(9) That the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section have been complied with.
(c) Except as provided in this paragraph, no results of a pulmonary function study shall constitute evidence of the presence or absence of a respiratory or pulmonary impairment unless it is conducted and reported in accordance with the requirements of this section and Appendix B to this part. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, compliance with the requirements of Appendix B shall be presumed. In the case of a deceased miner, where no pulmonary function tests are in substantial compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) and Appendix B, noncomplying tests may form the basis for
a finding if, in the opinion of the adjudication officer, the tests demonstrate technically valid results obtained with good cooperation of the miner.
§ 718.104
Report of physical examinations.
(a) A report of any physical examination conducted in connection with a claim shall be prepared on a medical report form supplied by the Office or in a manner containing substantially the same information. Any such report shall include the following information and test results:
(1) The miner's medical and employment history;
(2) All manifestations of chronic respiratory disease;
(3) Any pertinent findings not specifically listed on the form;
(4) If heart disease secondary to lung disease is found, all symptoms and significant findings;
(5) The results of a chest X-ray conducted and interpreted as required by § 718.102; and
(6) The results of a pulmonary function test conducted and reported as required by § 718.103. If the miner is physically unable to perform a pulmonary function test or if the test is medically contraindicated, in the absence of evidence establishing total disability pursuant to § 718.304, the report must be based on other medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, such as a blood gas study.
(b) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a), a report of physical examination may be based on any other procedures such as electrocardiogram, blood-gas studies conducted and reported as required by § 718.105, and other blood analyses which, in the physician's opinion, aid in his or her evaluation of the miner.
(c) In the case of a deceased miner, where no report is in substantial compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b), a report prepared by a physician who is unavailable may nevertheless form the basis for a finding if, in the opinion of the adjudication officer, it is accompanied by sufficient indicia of reliability in light of all relevant evidence.
(d)
Treating physician.
In weighing the medical evidence of record relevant to whether the miner suffers, or suffered, from pneumoconiosis, whether the pneumoconiosis arose out of coal mine employment, and whether the miner is, or was, totally disabled by pneumoconiosis or died due to pneumoconiosis, the adjudication officer must give consideration to the relationship between the miner and any treating physician whose report is admitted into the record. Specifically, the adjudication officer shall take into consideration the following factors in weighing the opinion of the miner's treating physician:
(1)
Nature of relationship.
The opinion of a physician who has treated the miner for respiratory or pulmonary conditions is entitled to more weight than a physician who has treated the miner for non-respiratory conditions;
(2)
Duration of relationship.
The length of the treatment relationship demonstrates whether the physician has observed the miner long enough to obtain a superior understanding of his or her condition;
(3)
Frequency of treatment.
The frequency of physician-patient visits demonstrates whether the physician has observed the miner often enough to obtain a superior understanding of his or her condition; and
(4)
Extent of treatment.
The types of testing and examinations conducted during the treatment relationship demonstrate whether the physician has obtained superior and relevant information concerning the miner's condition.
(5) In the absence of contrary probative evidence, the adjudication officer shall accept the statement of a physician with regard to the factors listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. In appropriate cases, the relationship between the miner and his treating physician may constitute substantial evidence in support of the adjudication officer's decision to give that physician's opinion controlling weight, provided that the weight given to the opinion of a miner's treating physician shall also be based on the credibility of the physician's opinion in light of its reasoning and documentation, other relevant evidence and the record as a whole.
§ 718.105
Arterial blood-gas studies.
(a) Blood-gas studies are performed to detect an impairment in the process of alveolar gas exchange. This defect will manifest itself primarily as a fall in arterial oxygen tension either at rest or during exercise. No blood-gas study shall be performed if medically contraindicated.
(b) A blood-gas study shall initially be administered at rest and in a sitting position. If the results of the blood-gas test at rest do not satisfy the requirements of Appendix C to this part, an exercise blood-gas test shall be offered to the miner unless medically contraindicated. If an exercise blood-gas test is administered, blood shall be drawn during exercise.
(c) Any report of a blood-gas study submitted in connection with a claim shall specify:
(1) Date and time of test;
(2) Altitude and barometric pressure at which the test was conducted;
(3) Name and DOL claim number of the claimant;
(4) Name of technician;
(5) Name and signature of physician supervising the study;
(6) The recorded values for PC02, P02, and PH, which have been collected simultaneously (specify values at rest and, if performed, during exercise);
(7) Duration and type of exercise;
(8) Pulse rate at the time the blood sample was drawn;
(9) Time between drawing of sample and analysis of sample; and
(10) Whether equipment was calibrated before and after each test.
(d) If one or more blood-gas studies producing results which meet the appropriate table in Appendix C is administered during a hospitalization which ends in the miner's death, then any such study must be accompanied by a physician's report establishing that the test results were produced by a chronic respiratory or pulmonary condition. Failure to produce such a report will prevent reliance on the blood-gas study as evidence that the miner was totally disabled at death. (e) In the case of a deceased miner, where no blood gas tests are in substantial compliance with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c), noncomplying tests may form the basis for a finding if, in the opinion of the adjudication officer, the only available tests demonstrate technically valid results. This provision shall not excuse compliance with the requirements in paragraph (d) for any blood gas study administered during a hospitalization which ends in the miner's death.
§ 718.106
Autopsy; biopsy.
(a) A report of an autopsy or biopsy submitted in connection with a claim shall include a detailed gross macroscopic and microscopic description of the lungs or visualized portion of a lung. If a surgical procedure has been performed to obtain a portion of a lung, the evidence shall include a copy of the surgical note and the pathology report of the gross and microscopic examination of the surgical specimen. If an autopsy has been performed, a complete copy of the autopsy report shall be submitted to the Office.
(b) In the case of a miner who died prior to March 31, 1980, an autopsy or biopsy report shall be considered even when the report does not substantially comply with the requirements of this section. A noncomplying report concerning a miner who died prior to March 31, 1980, shall be accorded the appropriate weight in light of all relevant evidence.
(c) A negative biopsy is not conclusive evidence that the miner does not have pneumoconiosis. However, where positive findings are obtained on biopsy, the results will constitute evidence of the presence of pneumoconiosis.
§ 718.107
Other medical evidence.
(a) The results of any medically acceptable test or procedure reported by a physician and not addressed in this subpart, which tends to demonstrate the presence or absence of pneumoconiosis, the sequelae of pneumoconiosis or a respiratory or pulmonary impairment, may be submitted in connection with a claim and shall be given appropriate consideration.
(b) The party submitting the test or procedure pursuant to this section bears the burden to demonstrate that the test or procedure is medically acceptable and relevant to establishing or refuting a claimant's entitlement to benefits.

# Subpart C—Determining Entitlement to Benefits

# Source:
65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 718.201
Definition of pneumoconiosis.
(a) For the purpose of the Act, “pneumoconiosis” means a chronic dust disease of the lung and its sequelae, including respiratory and pulmonary impairments, arising out of coal mine employment. This definition includes both medical, or “clinical”, pneumoconiosis and statutory, or “legal”, pneumoconiosis.
(1)
Clinical Pneumoconiosis.
“Clinical pneumoconiosis” consists of those diseases recognized by the medical community as pneumoconioses,
i.e.,
the conditions characterized by permanent deposition of substantial amounts of particulate matter in the lungs and the fibrotic reaction of the lung tissue to that deposition caused by dust exposure in coal mine employment. This definition includes, but is not limited to, coal workers' pneumoconiosis, anthracosilicosis, anthracosis, anthrosilicosis, massive pulmonary fibrosis, silicosis or silicotuberculosis, arising out of coal mine employment.
(2)
Legal Pneumoconiosis.
“Legal pneumoconiosis” includes any chronic lung disease or impairment and its sequelae arising out of coal mine employment. This definition includes, but is not limited to, any chronic restrictive or obstructive pulmonary disease arising out of coal mine employment.
(b) For purposes of this section, a disease “arising out of coal mine employment” includes any chronic pulmonary disease or respiratory or pulmonary impairment significantly related to, or substantially aggravated by, dust exposure in coal mine employment.
(c) For purposes of this definition, “pneumoconiosis” is recognized as a latent and progressive disease which may first become detectable only after the cessation of coal mine dust exposure.
§ 718.202
Determining the existence of pneumoconiosis.
(a) A finding of the existence of pneumoconiosis may be made as follows in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) A chest X-ray conducted and classified in accordance with § 718.102 may form the basis for a finding of the existence of pneumoconiosis. Except as otherwise provided in this section, where two or more X-ray reports are in conflict, in evaluating such X-ray reports consideration must be given to the radiological qualifications of the physicians interpreting such X-rays (
see
§ 718.102(d)).
(2) A biopsy or autopsy conducted and reported in compliance with § 718.106 may be the basis for a finding of the existence of pneumoconiosis. A finding in an autopsy or biopsy of anthracotic pigmentation, however, must not be considered sufficient, by itself, to establish the existence of pneumoconiosis. A report of autopsy must be accepted unless there is evidence that the report is not accurate or that the claim has been fraudulently represented.
(3) If the presumptions described in § 718.304 or § 718.305 are applicable, it must be presumed that the miner is or was suffering from pneumoconiosis.
(4) A determination of the existence of pneumoconiosis may also be made if a physician, exercising sound medical judgment, notwithstanding a negative X-ray, finds that the miner suffers or suffered from pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201. Any such finding must be based on objective medical evidence such as blood-gas studies, electrocardiograms, pulmonary function studies, physical performance tests, physical examination, and medical and work histories. Such a finding must be supported by a reasoned medical opinion.
(b) A claim for benefits must not be denied solely on the basis of a negative chest X-ray.
(c) A determination of the existence of pneumoconiosis must not be made—
(1) Solely on the basis of a living miner's statements or testimony; or
(2) In a claim involving a deceased miner, solely on the basis of the affidavit(s) (or equivalent testimony) of
the claimant and/or his or her dependents who would be eligible for augmentation of the claimant's benefits if the claim were approved.
[79 FR 21612, Apr. 17, 2014]
§ 718.203
Establishing relationship of pneumoconiosis to coal mine employment.
(a) In order for a claimant to be found eligible for benefits under the Act, it must be determined that the miner's pneumoconiosis arose at least in part out of coal mine employment. The provisions in this section set forth the criteria to be applied in making such a determination.
(b) If a miner who is suffering or suffered from pneumoconiosis was employed for ten years or more in one or more coal mines, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the pneumoconiosis arose out of such employment.
(c) If a miner who is suffering or suffered from pneumoconiosis was employed less than ten years in the nation's coal mines, it shall be determined that such pneumoconiosis arose out of that employment only if competent evidence establishes such a relationship.
§ 718.204
Total disability and disability causation defined; criteria for determining total disability and total disability due to pneumoconiosis.
(a)
General.
Benefits are provided under the Act for or on behalf of miners who are totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis, or who were totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis at the time of death. For purposes of this section, any nonpulmonary or nonrespiratory condition or disease, which causes an independent disability unrelated to the miner's pulmonary or respiratory disability, shall not be considered in determining whether a miner is totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis. If, however, a nonpulmonary or nonrespiratory condition or disease causes a chronic respiratory or pulmonary impairment, that condition or disease shall be considered in determining whether the miner is or was totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis.
(b)(1)
Total disability defined.
A miner shall be considered totally disabled if the irrebuttable presumption described in § 718.304 applies. If that presumption does not apply, a miner shall be considered totally disabled if the miner has a pulmonary or respiratory impairment which, standing alone, prevents or prevented the miner:
(i) From performing his or her usual coal mine work; and
(ii) From engaging in gainful employment in the immediate area of his or her residence requiring the skills or abilities comparable to those of any employment in a mine or mines in which he or she previously engaged with some regularity over a substantial period of time.
(2)
Medical criteria.
In the absence of contrary probative evidence, evidence which meets the standards of either paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall establish a miner's total disability:
(i) Pulmonary function tests showing values equal to or less than those listed in Table B1 (Males) or Table B2 (Females) in Appendix B to this part for an individual of the miner's age, sex, and height for the FEV1 test; if, in addition, such tests also reveal the values specified in either paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or (B) or (C) of this section:
(A) Values equal to or less than those listed in Table B3 (Males) or Table B4 (Females) in Appendix B of this part, for an individual of the miner's age, sex, and height for the FVC test, or
(B) Values equal to or less than those listed in Table B5 (Males) or Table B6 (Females) in Appendix B to this part, for an individual of the miner's age, sex, and height for the MVV test, or
(C) A percentage of 55 or less when the results of the FEV1 test are divided by the results of the FVC test (FEV1/FVC equal to or less than 55%), or
(ii) Arterial blood-gas tests show the values listed in Appendix C to this part, or
(iii) The miner has pneumoconiosis and has been shown by the medical evidence to be suffering from cor pulmonale with right-sided congestive heart failure, or
(iv) Where total disability cannot be shown under paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, or where pulmonary function tests and/or blood gas studies are medically contraindicated, total disability may nevertheless be
found if a physician exercising reasoned medical judgment, based on medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, concludes that a miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition prevents or prevented the miner from engaging in employment as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)(1)
Total disability due to pneumoconiosis defined.
A miner shall be considered totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis if pneumoconiosis, as defined in § 718.201, is a substantially contributing cause of the miner's totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment. Pneumoconiosis is a “substantially contributing cause” of the miner's disability if it:
(i) Has a material adverse effect on the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition; or
(ii) Materially worsens a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment which is caused by a disease or exposure unrelated to coal mine employment.
(2) Except as provided in § 718.305 and paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, proof that the miner suffers or suffered from a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment as defined in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(iv) and (d) of this section shall not, by itself, be sufficient to establish that the miner's impairment is or was due to pneumoconiosis. Except as provided in paragraph (d), the cause or causes of a miner's total disability shall be established by means of a physician's documented and reasoned medical report.
(d)
Lay evidence.
In establishing total disability, lay evidence may be used in the following cases:
(1) In a case involving a deceased miner in which the claim was filed prior to January 1, 1982, affidavits (or equivalent sworn testimony) from persons knowledgeable of the miner's physical condition shall be sufficient to establish total (or under § 718.306 partial) disability due to pneumoconiosis if no medical or other relevant evidence exists which addresses the miner's pulmonary or respiratory condition.
(2) In a case involving a survivor's claim filed on or after January 1, 1982, but prior to June 30, 1982, which is subject to § 718.306, affidavits (or equivalent sworn testimony) from persons knowledgeable of the miner's physical condition shall be sufficient to establish total or partial disability due to pneumoconiosis if no medical or other relevant evidence exists which addresses the miner's pulmonary or respiratory condition; however, such a determination shall not be based solely upon the affidavits or testimony of the claimant and/or his or her dependents who would be eligible for augmentation of the claimant's benefits if the claim were approved.
(3) In a case involving a deceased miner whose claim was filed on or after January 1, 1982, affidavits (or equivalent sworn testimony) from persons knowledgeable of the miner's physical condition shall be sufficient to establish total disability due to pneumoconiosis if no medical or other relevant evidence exists which addresses the miner's pulmonary or respiratory condition; however, such a determination shall not be based solely upon the affidavits or testimony of any person who would be eligible for benefits (including augmented benefits) if the claim were approved.
(4) Statements made before death by a deceased miner about his or her physical condition are relevant and shall be considered in making a determination as to whether the miner was totally disabled at the time of death.
(5) In the case of a living miner's claim, a finding of total disability due to pneumoconiosis shall not be made solely on the miner's statements or testimony.
(e) In determining total disability to perform usual coal mine work, the following shall apply in evaluating the miner's employment activities:
(1) In the case of a deceased miner, employment in a mine at the time of death shall not be conclusive evidence that the miner was not totally disabled. To disprove total disability, it must be shown that at the time the miner died, there were no changed circumstances of employment indicative of his or her reduced ability to perform his or her usual coal mine work.
(2) In the case of a living miner, proof of current employment in a coal mine
shall not be conclusive evidence that the miner is not totally disabled unless it can be shown that there are no changed circumstances of employment indicative of his or her reduced ability to perform his or her usual coal mine work.
(3) Changed circumstances of employment indicative of a miner's reduced ability to perform his or her usual coal mine work may include but are not limited to:
(i) The miner's reduced ability to perform his or her customary duties without help; or
(ii) The miner's reduced ability to perform his or her customary duties at his or her usual levels of rapidity, continuity or efficiency; or
(iii) The miner's transfer by request or assignment to less vigorous duties or to duties in a less dusty part of the mine.
§ 718.205
Death due to pneumoconiosis.
(a) Benefits are provided to eligible survivors of a miner whose death was due to pneumoconiosis. In order to receive benefits based on a showing of death due to pneumoconiosis, a claimant must prove that:
(1) The miner had pneumoconiosis (
see
§ 718.202);
(2) The miner's pneumoconiosis arose out of coal mine employment (
see
§ 718.203); and
(3) The miner's death was due to pneumoconiosis as provided by this section.
(b) Death will be considered to be due to pneumoconiosis if any of the following criteria is met:
(1) Where competent medical evidence establishes that pneumoconiosis was the cause of the miner's death, or
(2) Where pneumoconiosis was a substantially contributing cause or factor leading to the miner's death or where the death was caused by complications of pneumoconiosis, or
(3) Where the presumption set forth at § 718.304 is applicable, or
(4) For survivors' claims filed after January 1, 2005, and pending on or after March 23, 2010, where the presumption at § 718.305 is invoked and not rebutted.
(5) However, except where the § 718.304 presumption is invoked, survivors are not eligible for benefits where the miner's death was caused by a traumatic injury (including suicide) or the principal cause of death was a medical condition not related to pneumoconiosis, unless the claimant establishes (by proof or presumption) that pneumoconiosis was a substantially contributing cause of death.
(6) Pneumoconiosis is a “substantially contributing cause” of a miner's death if it hastens the miner's death.
[78 FR 59114, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 718.206
Effect of findings by persons or agencies.
Decisions, statements, reports, opinions, or the like, of agencies, organizations, physicians or other individuals, about the existence, cause, and extent of a miner's disability, or the cause of a miner's death, are admissible. If properly submitted, such evidence shall be considered and given the weight to which it is entitled as evidence under all the facts before the adjudication officer in the claim.

# Subpart D—Presumptions Applicable to Eligibility Determinations

# Source:
65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 718.301
Establishing length of employment as a miner.
The presumptions set forth in §§ 718.302 and 718.305 apply only if a miner worked in one or more coal mines for the number of years required to invoke the presumption. The length of the miner's coal mine work history must be computed as provided by 20 CFR 725.101(a)(32).
[78 FR 59114, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 718.302
Relationship of pneumoconiosis to coal mine employment.
If a miner who is suffering or suffered from pneumoconiosis was employed for ten years or more in one or more coal mines, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the pneumoconiosis arose out of such employment. (See § 718.203.)
§ 718.303
[Reserved]
§ 718.304
Irrebuttable presumption of total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis.
There is an irrebuttable presumption that a miner is totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis, that a miner's death was due to pneumoconiosis or that a miner was totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis at the time of death, if such miner is suffering or suffered from a chronic dust disease of the lung which:
(a) When diagnosed by chest X-ray (
see
§ 718.202 concerning the standards for X-rays and the effect of interpretations of X-rays by physicians) yields one or more large opacities (greater than one centimeter in diameter) and would be classified in Category A, B, or C in accordance with the classification system established in Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses as provided in § 718.102(d); or
(b) When diagnosed by biopsy or autopsy, yields massive lesions in the lung; or
(c) When diagnosed by means other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, would be a condition which could reasonably be expected to yield the results described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section had diagnosis been made as therein described:
Provided, however,
that any diagnosis made under this paragraph must accord with acceptable medical procedures.
[79 FR 21613, Apr. 17, 2014]
§ 718.305
Presumption of pneumoconiosis.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to all claims filed after January 1, 2005, and pending on or after March 23, 2010.
(b)
Invocation.
(1) The claimant may invoke the presumption by establishing that—
(i) The miner engaged in coal-mine employment for fifteen years, either in one or more underground coal mines, or in coal mines other than underground mines in conditions substantially similar to those in underground mines, or in any combination thereof; and
(ii) The miner or survivor cannot establish entitlement under § 718.304 by means of chest x-ray evidence; and
(iii) The miner has, or had at the time of his death, a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment established pursuant to § 718.204, except that § 718.204(d) does not apply.
(2) The conditions in a mine other than an underground mine will be considered “substantially similar” to those in an underground mine if the claimant demonstrates that the miner was regularly exposed to coal-mine dust while working there.
(3) In a claim involving a living miner, a miner's affidavit or testimony, or a spouse's affidavit or testimony, may not be used by itself to establish the existence of a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment.
(4) In the case of a deceased miner, affidavits (or equivalent sworn testimony) from persons knowledgeable of the miner's physical condition must be considered sufficient to establish total disability due to a respiratory or pulmonary impairment if no medical or other relevant evidence exists which addresses the miner's pulmonary or respiratory condition; however, such a determination must not be based solely upon the affidavits or testimony of any person who would be eligible for benefits (including augmented benefits) if the claim were approved.
(c)
Facts presumed.
Once invoked, there will be rebuttable presumption—
(1) In a miner's claim, that the miner is totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis, or was totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis at the time of death; or
(2) In a survivor's claim, that the miner's death was due to pneumoconiosis.
(d)
Rebuttal
—(1)
Miner's claim.
In a claim filed by a miner, the party opposing entitlement may rebut the presumption by—
(i) Establishing both that the miner does not, or did not, have:
(A) Legal pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201(a)(2); and
(B) Clinical pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201(a)(1), arising out of coal mine employment (
see
§ 718.203); or
(ii) Establishing that no part of the miner's respiratory or pulmonary total disability was caused by pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201.
(2)
Survivor's claim.
In a claim filed by a survivor, the party opposing entitlement may rebut the presumption by—
(i) Establishing both that the miner did not have:
(A) Legal pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201(a)(2); and
(B) Clinical pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201(a)(1), arising out of coal mine employment (
see
§ 718.203); or
(ii) Establishing that no part of the miner's death was caused by pneumoconiosis as defined in § 718.201.
(3) The presumption must not be considered rebutted on the basis of evidence demonstrating the existence of a totally disabling obstructive respiratory or pulmonary disease of unknown origin.
[78 FR 59114, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 718.306
[Reserved]
Pt. 718, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 718—Standards for Administration and Interpretation of Chest Radiographs (X-rays)
The following standards are established in accordance with sections 402(f)(1)(D) and 413(b) of the Act. They were developed in consultation with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the Department of Health and Human Services. These standards are promulgated for the guidance of physicians and medical technicians to ensure that uniform procedures are used in administering and interpreting X-rays and that the best available medical evidence will be submitted in connection with a claim for black lung benefits. If it is established that one or more standards have not been met, the claims adjudicator may consider such fact in determining the evidentiary weight to be assigned to the physician's report of an X-ray.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Digital radiography systems,
as used in this context, include both digital radiography (DR) and computed radiography (CR). Digital radiography is the term used for digital X-ray image acquisition systems in which the X-ray signals received by the image detector are converted nearly instantaneously to electronic signals without moveable cassettes. Computed radiography is the term for digital X-ray image acquisition systems that detect X-ray signals using a cassette-based photostimulable storage phosphor. Subsequently, the cassette is processed using a stimulating laser beam to convert the latent radiographic image to electronic signals which are then processed and stored so they can be displayed.
(2)
Qualified medical physicist
means an individual who is trained in evaluating the performance of radiographic equipment including radiation controls and facility quality assurance programs, and has the relevant current certification by a competent U.S. national board, or unrestricted license or approval from a U.S. State or Territory.
(3)
Radiographic technique chart
means a table that specifies the types of cassette, intensifying screen, film or digital detector, grid, filter, and lists X-ray machine settings (timing, kVp, mA) that enables the radiographer to select the correct settings based on the body habitus or the thickness of the chest tissue.
(4)
Radiologic technologist
means an individual who has met the requirements for privileges to perform general radiographic procedures and for competence in using the equipment and software employed by the examining facility to obtain chest images as specified by the State or Territory and examining facility in which such services are provided. Optimally, such an individual will have completed a formal training program in radiography leading to a certificate, an associate's degree, or a bachelor's degree and participated in the voluntary initial certification and annual renewal of registration for radiologic technologists offered by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists.
(5)
Soft copy
means the image of a coal miner's chest radiograph acquired using a digital radiography system, viewed at the full resolution of the image acquisition system using an electronic medical image display device.
(b)
General provisions.
(1) Facilities must maintain ongoing licensure and certification under relevant local, State, and Federal laws and regulations for all digital equipment and related processes covered by this Appendix. Radiographic equipment, its use and the facilities (including mobile facilities) in which such equipment is used must conform to applicable State or Territorial and Federal regulations. Where no applicable regulations exist regarding reducing the risk from ionizing radiation exposure in the clinical setting, radiographic equipment, its use and the facilities (including mobile facilities) in which such equipment is used should conform to the recommendations in NCRP Report No. 102, NCRP Report No. 105, and NCRP Report No. 147 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5).
(2) Chest radiographs of miners must be performed:
(i) By or under the supervision of a physician who makes chest radiographs in the
normal course of practice and who has demonstrated ability to make chest radiographs of a quality to best ascertain the presence of pneumoconiosis; or
(ii) By a radiologic technologist.
(3) Miners must be disrobed from the waist up at the time the radiograph is given. The facility must provide a dressing area and for those miners who wish to use one, the facility will provide a clean gown. Facilities must be heated to a comfortable temperature.
(4) Before the miner is advised that the examination is concluded, the radiograph must be processed and inspected and accepted for quality standards by the physician, or if the physician is not available, acceptance may be made by the radiologic technologist. In a case of a substandard radiograph, another must be made immediately.
(c)
Chest radiograph specifications—film.
(1) Every chest radiograph must be a single posteroanterior projection at full inspiration on a film being no less than 14 by 17 inch film. Additional chest films or views must be obtained if they are necessary for clarification and classification. The film and cassette must be capable of being positioned both vertically and horizontally so that the chest radiograph will include both apices and costophrenic angles. If a miner is too large to permit the above requirements, then a projection with minimum loss of costophrenic angle must be made.
(2) Radiographs must be made with a diagnostic X-ray machine having a rotating anode tube with a maximum of a 2 mm source (focal spot).
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this appendix, radiographs must be made with units having generators that comply with the following:
(i) Generators of existing radiographic units acquired by the examining facility prior to July 27, 1973, must have a minimum rating of 200 mA at 100 kVp;
(ii) Generators of units acquired subsequent to that date must have a minimum rating of 300 mA at 125 kVp. A generator with a rating of 150 kVp is recommended.
(4) Radiographs made with battery-powered mobile or portable equipment must be made with units having a minimum rating of 100 mA at 110 kVp at 500 Hz, or 200 mA at 110 kVp at 60 Hz.
(5) Capacitor discharge and field emission units may be used.
(6) Radiographs must be given only with equipment having a beam-limiting device that does not cause large unexposed boundaries. The use of such a device must be discernible from an examination of the radiograph.
(7) To ensure high quality chest radiographs:
(i) The maximum exposure time must not exceed 50 milliseconds except that with single phase units with a rating less than 300 mA at 125 kVp and subjects with chests over 28 cm postero-anterior, the exposure may be increased to not more than 100 milliseconds;
(ii) The source or focal spot to film distance must be at least 6 feet.
(iii) Medium-speed film and medium-speed intensifying screens are recommended. However, any film-screen combination, the rated “speed” of which is at least 100 and does not exceed 300, which produces radiographs with spatial resolution, contrast, latitude and quantum mottle similar to those of systems designated as “medium speed” may be employed;
(iv) Film-screen contact must be maintained and verified at 6-month or shorter intervals.
(v) Intensifying screens must be inspected at least once a month and cleaned when necessary by the method recommended by the manufacturer;
(vi) All intensifying screens in a cassette must be of the same type and made by the same manufacturer;
(vii) When using over 90 kV, a suitable grid or other means of reducing scattered radiation must be used;
(viii) The geometry of the radiographic system must ensure that the central axis (ray) of the primary beam is perpendicular to the plane of the film surface and impinges on the center of the film.
(8) Radiographic processing:
(i) Either automatic or manual film processing is acceptable. A constant time-temperature technique must be meticulously employed for manual processing.
(ii) If mineral or other impurities in the processing water introduce difficulty in obtaining a high-quality radiograph, a suitable filter or purification system must be used.
(9) An electric power supply must be used that complies with the voltage, current, and regulation specified by the manufacturer of the machine.
(10) A test object may be required on each radiograph for an objective evaluation of film quality at the discretion of the Department of Labor.
(11) Each radiograph made under this Appendix must be permanently and legibly marked with the name and address of the facility at which it is made, the miner's DOL claim number, the date of the radiograph, and left and right side of the film. No other identifying markings may be recorded on the radiograph.
(d)
Chest radiograph specifications—digital radiography systems.
(1) Every digital chest radiograph must be a single posteroanterior projection at full inspiration on a digital detector with sensor area being no less than 1505 square centimeters with a minimum width of 35 cm. The imaging plate must have a maximum pixel pitch of 200 µm, with a minimum bit depth of 10. Spatial resolution
must be at least 2.5 line pairs per millimeter. The storage phosphor cassette or digital image detector must be positioned either vertically or horizontally so that the image includes the apices and costophrenic angles of both right and left lungs. If the detector cannot include the apices and costophrenic angles of both lungs as described, then the two side-by-side images can be obtained that together include the apices and costophrenic angles of both right and left lungs.
(2) Radiographs must be made with a diagnostic X-ray machine with a maximum actual (not nominal) source (focal spot) of 2 mm, as measured in two orthogonal directions.
(3) Radiographs must be made with units having generators which have a minimum rating of 300 mA at 125 kVp. Exposure kilovoltage must be at least the minimum as recommended by the manufacturer for chest radiography.
(4) An electric power supply must be used that complies with the voltage, current, and regulation specified by the manufacturer of the machine. If the manufacturer or installer of the radiographic equipment recommends equipment for control of electrical power fluctuations, such equipment must be used as recommended.
(5) Radiographs must be obtained only with equipment having a beam-limiting device that does not cause large unexposed boundaries. The beam limiting device must provide rectangular collimation. Electronic post-image acquisition “shutters” available on some CR or DR systems that limit the size of the final image and that simulate collimator limits must not be used. The use and effect of the beam limiting device must be discernible on the resulting image.
(6) Radiographic technique charts must be used that are developed specifically for the X-ray system and detector combinations used, indicating exposure parameters by anatomic measurements.
(7) To ensure high quality chest radiographs:
(i) The maximum exposure time must not exceed 50 milliseconds except for subjects with chests over 28 cm posteroanterior, for whom the exposure time must not exceed 100 milliseconds.
(ii) The distance from source or focal spot to detector must be at least 70 inches (or 180 centimeters if measured in centimeters).
(iii) The exposure setting for chest images must be within the range of 100-300 equivalent exposure speeds and must comply with ACR Practice Guidelines for Diagnostic Reference Levels in Medical X-ray Imaging, Section V—Diagnostic Reference Levels for Imaging with Ionizing Radiation and Section VII-Radiation Safety in Imaging (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5). Radiation exposures should be periodically measured and patient radiation doses estimated by the medical physicist to assure doses are as low as reasonably achievable.
(iv) Digital radiography system performance, including resolution, modulation transfer function (MTF), image signal-to-noise and detective quantum efficiency must be evaluated and judged acceptable by a qualified medical physicist using the specifications in AAPM Report No. 93, pages 1-68 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5). Image management software and settings for routine chest imaging must be used, including routine amplification of digital detector signal as well as standard image post-processing functions. Image or edge enhancement software functions must not be employed unless they are integral to the digital radiography system (not elective); in such cases, only the minimum image enhancement permitted by the system may be employed.
(v)(A) The image object, transmission and associated data storage, film format, and transmissions of associated information must conform to the following components of the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5):
(
1
) DICOM Standard PS 3.3-2011, Annex A—Composite Information Object Definitions, sections: Computed Radiographic Image Information Object Definition; Digital X-Ray Image Information Object Definition; X-Ray Radiation Dose SR Information Object Definition; and Grayscale Softcopy Presentation State Information Object Definition.
(
2
) DICOM Standard PS 3.4-2011: Annex B—Storage Service Class; Annex N—Softcopy Presentation State Storage SOP Classes; Annex O—Structured Reporting Storage SOP Classes.
(
3
) DICOM Standard PS 3.10-2011.
(
4
) DICOM Standard PS 3.11-2011.
(
5
) DICOM Standard PS 3.12-2011.
(
6
) DICOM Standard PS 13.14-2011.
(
7
) DICOM Standard PS 3.16-2011.
(B) Identification of each miner, chest image, facility, date and time of the examination must be encoded within the image information object, according to DICOM Standard PS 3.3-2011, Information Object Definitions, for the DICOM “DX” object. If data compression is performed, it must be lossless. Exposure parameters (kVp, mA, time, beam filtration, scatter reduction, radiation exposure) must be stored in the DX information object.
(C) Exposure parameters as defined in the DICOM Standard PS 3.16-2011 must additionally be provided when such parameters are available from the facility digital image acquisition system or recorded in a written report or electronic file and transmitted to OWCP.
(8) A specific test object may be required on each radiograph for an objective evaluation of image quality at the Department of Labor's discretion.
(9) CR imaging plates must be inspected at least once a month and cleaned when necessary by the method recommended by the manufacturer.
(10) A grid or air gap for reducing scattered radiation must be used; grids must not be used that cause Moiré interference patterns in either horizontal or vertical images.
(11) The geometry of the radiographic system must ensure that the central axis (ray) of the primary beam is perpendicular to the plane of the CR imaging plate or DR detector and is correctly aligned to the grid.
(12) Radiographs must not be made when the environmental temperatures and humidity in the facility are outside the manufacturer's recommended range of the CR and DR equipment to be used.
(13) All interpreters, whenever classifying digitally acquired chest radiographs, must have immediately available for reference a complete set of ILO standard digital chest radiographic images provided for use with the Guidelines for the Use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses (2011 Revision) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5). Modification of the appearance of the standard images using software tools is not permitted.
(14) Viewing systems should enable readers to display the coal miner's chest image at the full resolution of the image acquisition system, side-by-side with the selected ILO standard images for comparison.
(i)(A) Image display devices must be flat panel monitors displaying at least 3 MP at 10 bit depth. Image displays and associated graphics cards must meet the calibration and other specifications of the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) standard PS 3.14-2011 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5).
(B) Image displays and associated graphics cards must not deviate by more than 10 percent from the grayscale standard display function (GSDF) when assessed according to the AAPM On-Line Report No. 03, pages 1-146 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5).
(ii) Display system luminance (maximum and ratio), relative noise, linearity, modulation transfer function (MTF), frequency, and glare should meet or exceed recommendations listed in AAPM On-Line Report No. 03, pages 1-146 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5). Viewing displays must have a maximum luminance of at least 171 cd/m
2
, a ratio of maximum luminance to minimum luminance of at least 250, and a glare ratio greater than 400. The contribution of ambient light reflected from the display surface, after light sources have been minimized, must be included in luminance measurements.
(iii) Displays must be situated so as to minimize front surface glare. Readers must minimize reflected light from ambient sources during the performance of classifications.
(iv) Measurements of the width and length of pleural shadows and the diameter of opacities must be taken using calibrated software measuring tools. If permitted by the viewing software, a record must be made of the presentation state(s), including any noise reduction and edge enhancement or restoration functions that were used in performing the classification, including any annotations and measurements.
(15) Quality control procedures for devices used to display chest images for classification must comply with the recommendations of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine AAPM On-Line Report No. 03, pages 1-146 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 718.5). If automatic quality assurance systems are used, visual inspection must be performed using one or more test patterns recommended by the medical physicist every 6 months, or more frequently, to check for defects that automatic systems may not detect.
(16) Classification of CR and DR digitally-acquired chest radiographs under this Part must be performed based on the viewing images displayed as soft copies using the viewing workstations specified in this section. Classification of radiographs must not be based on the viewing of hard copy printed transparencies of images that were digitally-acquired.
(17) The classification of chest radiographs based on digitized copies of chest radiographs that were originally acquired using film-screen techniques is not permissible.
[79 FR 21613, Apr. 17, 2014]
Pt. 718, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 718—Standards for Administration and Interpretation of Pulmonary Function Tests. Tables B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6.
The following standards are established in accordance with section 402(f)(1)(D) of the Act. They were developed in consultation with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). These standards are promulgated for the guidance of physicians and medical technicians to insure that uniform procedures are used in administering and interpreting ventilatory function tests and that the best available medical evidence will be submitted in support of a claim for black lung benefits. If it is established that one or more standards have not been met, the claims adjudicator may consider such fact in determining the evidentiary weight to be given to the results of the ventilatory function tests.
(1) Instruments to be used for the administration of pulmonary function tests shall be approved by NIOSH and shall conform to the following criteria:
(i) The instrument shall be accurate within ±50 ml or within ±3 percent of reading, whichever is greater.
(ii) The instrument shall be capable of measuring vital capacity from 0 to 7 liters BTPS.
(iii) The instrument shall have a low inertia and offer low resistance to airflow such that the resistance to airflow at 12 liters per second must be less than 1.5 cm H20/liter/sec.
(iv) The instrument or user of the instrument must have a means of correcting volumes to body temperature saturated with water vapor (BTPS) under conditions of varying ambient spirometer temperatures and barometric pressures.
(v) The instrument used shall provide a tracing of flow versus volume (flow-volume loop) which displays the entire maximum inspiration and the entire maximum forced expiration. The instrument shall, in addition, provide tracings of the volume versus time tracing (spirogram) derived electronically from the flow-volume loop. Tracings are necessary to determine whether maximum inspiratory and expiratory efforts have been obtained during the FVC maneuver. If maximum voluntary ventilation is measured, the tracing shall record the individual breaths volumes versus time.
(vi) The instrument shall be capable of accumulating volume for a minimum of 10 seconds after the onset of exhalation.
(vii) The instrument must be capable of being calibrated in the field with respect to the FEV1. The volume calibration shall be accomplished with a 3 L calibrating syringe and should agree to within 1 percent of a 3 L calibrating volume. The linearity of the instrument must be documented by a record of volume calibrations at three different flow rates of approximately 3 L/6 sec, 3 L/3 sec, and 3 L/sec.
(viii) For measuring maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) the instrument shall have a response which is flat within ±10 percent up to 4 Hz at flow rates up to 12 liters per second over the volume range.
(ix) The spirogram shall be recorded at a speed of at least 20 mm/sec and a volume excursion of at least 10mm/L. Calculation of the FEVl from the flow-volume loop is not acceptable. Original tracings shall be submitted.
(2) The administration of pulmonary function tests shall conform to the following criteria:
(i) Tests shall not be performed during or soon after an acute respiratory illness.
(ii) For the FEV1 and FVC, use of a nose clip is required. The procedures shall be explained in simple terms to the patient who shall be instructed to loosen any tight clothing and stand in front of the apparatus. The subject may sit, or stand, but care should be taken on repeat testing that the same position be used. Particular attention shall be given to insure that the chin is slightly elevated with the neck slightly extended. The subject shall be instructed to expire completely, momentarily hold his breath, place the mouthpiece in his mouth and close the mouth firmly about the mouthpiece to ensure no air leak. The subject will than make a maximum inspiration from the instrument and when maximum inspiration has been attained, without interruption, blow as hard, fast and completely as possible for at least 7 seconds or until a plateau has been attained in the volume-time curve with no detectable change in the expired volume during the last 2 seconds of maximal expiratory effort. A minimum of three flow-volume loops and derived spirometric tracings shall be carried out. The patient shall be observed throughout the study for compliance with instructions. Inspiration and expiration shall be checked visually for reproducibility. The effort shall be judged unacceptable when the patient:
(A) Has not reached full inspiration preceding the forced expiration; or
(B) Has not used maximal effort during the entire forced expiration; or
(C) Has not continued the expiration for least 7 sec. or until an obvious plateau for at least 2 sec. in the volume-time curve has occurred; or
(D) Has coughed or closed his glottis; or
(E) Has an obstructed mouthpiece or a leak around the mouthpiece (obstruction due to tongue being placed in front of mouthpiece, false teeth falling in front of mouthpiece, etc.); or
(F) Has an unsatisfactory start of expiration, one characterized by excessive hesitation (or false starts). Peak flow should be attained at the start of expiration and the volume-time tracing (spirogram) should have a smooth contour revealing gradually decreasing flow throughout expiration; or
(G) Has an excessive variability between the three acceptable curves. The variation between the two largest FEV1's of the three acceptable tracings should not exceed 5 percent of the largest FEV1 or 100 ml, whichever is greater. As individuals with obstructive disease or rapid decline in lung function will be less likely to achieve this degree of reproducibility, tests not meeting this criterion may still be submitted for consideration in support of a claim for black lung benefits. Failure to meet this standard should be clearly noted in the test report by the physician conducting or reviewing the test.
(iii) For the MVV, the subject shall be instructed before beginning the test that he or she will be asked to breathe as deeply and as rapidly as possible for approximately 15 seconds. The test shall be performed with the subject in the standing position, if possible. Care shall be taken on repeat testing that the same position be used. The subject shall breathe normally into the mouthpiece of the
apparatus for 10 to 15 seconds to become accustomed to the system. The subject shall then be instructed to breathe as deeply and as rapidly as possible, and shall be continually encouraged during the remainder of the maneuver. Subject shall continue the maneuver for 15 seconds. At least 5 minutes of rest shall be allowed between maneuvers. At least three MVV's shall be carried out. (
But see
§ 718.103(b).) During the maneuvers the patient shall be observed for compliance with instructions. The effort shall be judged unacceptable when the patient:
(A) Has not maintained consistent effort for at least 12 to 15 seconds; or
(B) Has coughed or closed his glottis; or
(C) Has an obstructed mouthpiece or a leak around the mouthpiece (obstruction due to tongue being placed in front of mouthpiece, false teeth falling in front of mouthpiece, etc.); or
(D) Has an excessive variability between the three acceptable curves. The variation between the two largest MVVs of the three satisfactory tracings shall not exceed 10 percent.
(iv) A calibration check shall be performed on the instrument each day before use, using a volume source of at least three liters, accurate to within ±1 percent of full scale. The volume calibration shall be performed in accordance with the method described in paragraph (1)(vii) of this Appendix. Accuracy of the time measurement used in determining the FEV1 shall be checked using the manufacturer's stated procedure and shall be within ±3 percent of actual. The procedure described in the Appendix shall be performed as well as any other procedures suggested by the manufacturer of the spirometer being used.
(v)(A) The first step in evaluating a spirogram for the FVC and FEV1 shall be to determine whether or not the patient has performed the test properly or as described in (2)(ii) of this Appendix. The largest recorded FVC and FEV1, corrected to BTPS, shall be used in the analysis.
(B) Only MVV maneuvers which demonstrate consistent effort for at least 12 seconds shall be considered acceptable. The largest accumulated volume for a 12 second period corrected to BTPS and multiplied by five or the largest accumulated volume for a 15 second period corrected to BTPS and multiplied by four is to be reported as the MVV.
EC05OC91.000
EC05OC91.001
EC05OC91.002
EC05OC91.003
EC05OC91.004
EC05OC91.005
EC05OC91.006
EC05OC91.007
EC05OC91.008
EC05OC91.009
EC05OC91.010
EC05OC91.011
Pt. 718, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 718—Blood-Gas Tables
The following tables set forth the values to be applied in determining whether total disability may be established in accordance with § 718.204(b)(2)(ii). The values contained in the tables are indicative of impairment only. They do not establish a degree of disability except as provided in § 718.204(b)(2)(ii) of this subchapter, nor do they establish standards for determining normal alveolar gas exchange values for any particular individual. Tests must not be performed during or soon after an acute respiratory or cardiac illness. A miner who meets the following medical specifications must be found to be totally disabled, in the absence of rebutting evidence, if the values specified in one of the following tables are met:
(1) For arterial blood-gas studies performed at test sites up to 2,999 feet above sea level:
Arterial PCO2 (mm Hg)
Arterial PO2 equal to or less than (mm Hg)
25 or below
75
26
74
27
73
28
72
29
71
30
70
31
69
32
68
33
67
34
66
35
65
36
64
37
63
38
62
39
61
40-49
60
Above 50
(
1
)
1
Any value.
(2) For arterial blood-gas studies performed at test sites 3,000 to 5,999 feet above sea level:
Arterial PCO2 (mm Hg)
Arterial PO2 equal to or less than (mm Hg)
25 or below
70
26
69
27
68
28
67
29
66
30
65
31
64
32
63
33
62
34
61
35
60
36
59
37
58
38
57
39
56
40-49
55
Above 50
(
2
)
2
Any value.
(3) For arterial blood-gas studies performed at test sites 6,000 feet or more above sea level:
Arterial PCO2 (mm Hg)
Arterial PO2 equal to or less than (mm Hg)
25 or below
65
26
64
27
63
28
62
29
61
30
60
31
59
32
58
33
57
34
56
35
55
36
54
37
53
38
52
39
51
40-49
50
Above 50
(
3
)
3
Any value.
[65 FR 80045, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 59115, Sept. 25, 2013]
Pt. 722

# PART 722—CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING WHETHER STATE WORKERS' COMPENSATION LAWS PROVIDE ADEQUATE COVERAGE FOR PNEUMOCONIOSIS AND LISTING OF APPROVED STATE LAWS
Sec.
722.1
Purpose.
722.2
Definitions.
722.3
General criteria; inclusion in and removal from the Secretary's list.
722.4
The Secretary's list.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174, 30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
921, 932, 936; 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
Secretary's Order 7-87, 52 FR 48466, Employment Standards Order No. 90-02.

# Source:
65 FR 80053, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 722.1
Purpose.
Section 421 of the Black Lung Benefits Act provides that a claim for benefits based on the total disability or death of a coal miner due to pneumoconiosis must be filed under a State workers' compensation law where such law provides adequate coverage for pneumoconiosis. A State workers' compensation law may be deemed to provide adequate coverage only when it is included on a list of such laws maintained by the Secretary. The purpose of this part is to set forth the procedures and criteria for inclusion on that list, and to provide that list.
§ 722.2
Definitions.
(a) The definitions and use of terms contained in subpart A of part 725 of this title shall be applicable to this part.
(b) For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(1)
State agency
means, with respect to any State, the agency, department or officer designated by the workers' compensation law of the State to administer such law. In any case in which more than one agency participates in the administration of a State workers' compensation law, the Governor of the State may designate which of the agencies shall be the State agency for purposes of this part.
(2)
The Secretary's list
means the list published by the Secretary of Labor in the
Federal Register
(see § 722.4) containing the names of those States which have in effect a workers' compensation law which provides adequate coverage for death or total disability due to pneumoconiosis.
§ 722.3
General criteria; inclusion in and removal from the Secretary's list.
(a) The Governor of any State or any duly authorized State agency may, at any time, request that the Secretary include such State's workers' compensation law on his list of those State workers' compensation laws providing adequate coverage for total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis. Each such request shall include a copy of the State workers' compensation law and any other pertinent State laws; a copy of any regulations, either proposed or promulgated, implementing such laws; and a copy of any relevant administrative or court decision interpreting such laws or regulations, or, if such decisions are published in a readily available report, a citation to such decision.
(b) Upon receipt of a request that a State be included on the Secretary's list, the Secretary shall include the State on the list if he finds that the State's workers' compensation law guarantees the payment of monthly and medical benefits to all persons who would be entitled to such benefits under the Black Lung Benefits Act at the time of the request, at a rate no less than that provided by the Black Lung Benefits Act. The criteria used by the Secretary in making such determination shall include, but shall not be limited to, the criteria set forth in section 421(b)(2) of the Act.
(c) The Secretary may require each State included on the list to submit reports detailing the extent to which the State's workers' compensation laws, as reflected by statute, regulation, or administrative or court decision, continues to meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. If the Secretary concludes that the State's workers' compensation law does not provide adequate coverage at any time, either because of changes to the State workers' compensation law or the Black Lung Benefits Act, he shall remove the State from the Secretary's list after providing the State with notice of such removal and an opportunity to be heard.
§ 722.4
The Secretary's list.
(a) The Secretary has determined that publication of the Secretary's list in the Code of Federal Regulations is appropriate. Accordingly, in addition to its publication in the
Federal Register
as required by section 421 of the Black Lung Benefits Act, the list shall also appear in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Upon review of all requests filed with the Secretary under section 421 of the Black Lung Benefits Act and this part, and examination of the workers' compensation laws of the States making such requests, the Secretary has determined that the workers' compensation law of each of the following listed States, for the period from the date shown in the list until such date as the Secretary may make a contrary determination, provides adequate coverage for pneumoconiosis.
State
Period commencing
None
Pt. 725

# PART 725—CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER PART C OF TITLE IV OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT, AS AMENDED

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
725.1
Statutory provisions.
725.2
Purpose and applicability of this part.
725.3
Contents of this part.
725.4
Applicability of other parts in this title.
725.101
Definitions and use of terms.
725.102
Disclosure of program information.
725.103
Burden of proof.

# Subpart B—Persons Entitled to Benefits, Conditions, and Duration of Entitlement
725.201
Who is entitled to benefits; contents of this subpart.

# Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner
725.202
Miner defined; conditions of entitlement, miner.
725.203
Duration and cessation of entitlement, miner.

# Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner's Dependents (Augmented Benefits)
725.204
Determination of relationship; spouse.
725.205
Determination of dependency; spouse.
725.206
Determination of relationship; divorced spouse.
725.207
Determination of dependency; divorced spouse.
725.208
Determination of relationship; child.
725.209
Determination of dependency; child.
725.210
Duration of augmented benefits.
725.211
Time of determination of relationship and dependency of spouse or child for purposes of augmentation of benefits.

# Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner's Survivors
725.212
Conditions of entitlement; surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse.
725.213
Duration of entitlement; surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse.
725.214
Determination of relationship; surviving spouse.
725.215
Determination of dependency; surviving spouse.
725.216
Determination of relationship; surviving divorced spouse.
725.217
Determination of dependency; surviving divorced spouse.
725.218
Conditions of entitlement; child.
725.219
Duration of entitlement; child.
725.220
Determination of relationship; child.
725.221
Determination of dependency; child.
725.222
Conditions of entitlement; parent, brother or sister.
725.223
Duration of entitlement; parent, brother or sister.
725.224
Determination of relationship; parent, brother or sister.
725.225
Determination of dependency; parent, brother or sister.
725.226
“Good cause” for delayed filing of proof of support.
725.227
Time of determination of relationship and dependency of survivors.
725.228
Effect of conviction of felonious and intentional homicide on entitlement to benefits.

# Terms Used in this Subpart
725.229
Intestate personal property.
725.230
Legal impediment.
725.231
Domicile.
725.232
Member of the same household—”living with,” “living in the same household,” and “living in the miner's household,” defined.
725.233
Support and contributions.

# Subpart C—Filing of Claims
725.301
Who may file a claim.
725.302
Evidence of authority to file a claim on behalf of another.
725.303
Date and place of filing of claims.
725.304
Forms and initial processing.
725.305
When a written statement is considered a claim.
725.306
Withdrawal of a claim.
725.307
Cancellation of a request for withdrawal.
725.308
Time limits for filing claims.
725.309
Additional claims; effect of a prior denial of benefits.
725.310
Modification of awards and denials.
725.311
Communications with respect to claims; time computations.

# Subpart D—Adjudication Officers; Parties and Representatives
725.350
Who are the adjudication officers?
725.351
Powers of adjudication officers.
725.352
Disqualification of adjudication officer.
725.360
Parties to proceedings
725.361
Party amicus curiae.
725.362
Representation of parties.
725.363
Qualification of representative.
725.364
Authority of representative.
725.365
Approval of representative's fees; lien against benefits.
725.366
Fees for representatives.
725.367
Payment of a claimant's attorney's fee by responsible operator or fund.

# Subpart E—Adjudication of Claims by the District Director
725.401
Claims development—general.
725.402
Approved State workers' compensation law.
725.403
[Reserved]
725.404
Development of evidence—general
725.405
Development of medical evidence; scheduling of medical examinations and tests.
725.406
Medical examinations and tests.
725.407
Identification and notification of responsible operator.
725.408
Operator's response to notification.
725.409
Denial of a claim by reason of abandonment.
725.410
Submission of additional evidence.
725.411
Initial adjudication in Trust Fund cases.
725.412
Operator's response.
725.413
Disclosure of medical information.
725.414
Development of evidence.
725.415
Action by the district director after development of evidence.
725.416
Conferences.
725.417
Action at the conclusion of conference.
725.418
Proposed decision and order.
725.419
Response to proposed decision and order.
725.420
Initial determinations.
725.421
Referral of a claim to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
725.422
Legal assistance.
725.423
Extensions of time.

# Subpart F—Hearings
725.450
Right to a hearing.
725.451
Request for hearing.
725.452
Type of hearing; parties.
725.453
Notice of hearing.
725.454
Time and place of hearing; transfer of cases.
725.455
Hearing procedures; generally.
725.456
Introduction of documentary evidence.
725.457
Witnesses.
725.458
Depositions; interrogatories.
725.459
Witness fees.
725.460
Consolidated hearings.
725.461
Waiver of right to appear and present evidence.
725.462
Withdrawal of controversion of issues set for formal hearing; effect.
725.463
Issues to be resolved at hearing; new issues.
725.464
Record of hearing.
725.465
Dismissals for cause.
725.466
Order of dismissal.
725.475
Termination of hearings.
725.476
Issuance of decision and order.
725.477
Form and contents of decision and order.
725.478
Filing and service of decision and order.
725.479
Finality of decisions and orders.
725.480
Modification of decisions and orders.
725.481
Right to appeal to the Benefits Review Board.
725.482
Judicial review.
725.483
Costs in proceedings brought without reasonable grounds.

# Subpart G—Responsible Coal Mine Operators
725.490
Statutory provisions and scope.
725.491
Operator defined.
725.492
Successor operator defined.
725.493
Employment relationship defined.
725.494
Potentially liable operators.
725.495
Criteria for determining a responsible operator.
725.496
Special claims transferred to the fund.
725.497
Procedures in special claims transferred to the fund.

# Subpart H—Payment of Benefits

# General Provisions
725.501
Payment provisions generally.
725.502
When benefit payments are due; manner of payment.
725.503
Date from which benefits are payable.
725.504
Payments to a claimant employed as a miner.
725.505
Payees.
725.506
Payment on behalf of another; “legal guardian” defined.
725.507
Guardian for minor or incompetent.
725.510
Representative payee.
725.511
Use and benefit defined.
725.512
Support of legally dependent spouse, child, or parent.
725.513
Accountability; transfer.
725.514
Certification to dependent of augmentation portion of benefit.
725.515
Assignment and exemption from claims of creditors.

# Benefit Rates
725.520
Computation of benefits.
725.521
Commutation of payments; lump sum awards.
725.522
Payments prior to final adjudication.

# Special Provisions for Operator Payments
725.530
Operator payments; generally.
725.531
Receipt for payment.
725.532
Suspension, reduction, or termination of payments.

# Increases and Reductions of Benefits
725.533
Modification of benefit amounts; general.
725.534
Reduction of State benefits.
725.535
Reductions; receipt of State or Federal benefit.
725.536
Reductions; excess earnings.
725.537
Reductions; retroactive effect of an additional claim for benefits.
725.538
Reductions; effect of augmentation of benefits based on subsequent qualification of individual.
725.539
More than one reduction event.

# Overpayments; Underpayments
725.540
Overpayments.
725.541
Notice of waiver of adjustment or recovery of overpayment.
725.542
When waiver of adjustment or recovery may be applied.
725.543
Standards for waiver of adjustment or recovery.
725.544
Collection and compromise of claims for overpayment.
725.545
Underpayments.
725.546
Relation to provisions for reductions or increases.
725.547
Applicability of overpayment and underpayment provisions to operator or carrier.
725.548
Procedures applicable to overpayments and underpayments

# Subpart I—Enforcement of Liability; Reports
725.601
Enforcement generally.
725.602
Reimbursement of the fund.
725.603
Payments by the fund on behalf of an operator; liens.
725.604
Enforcement of final awards.
725.605
Defaults.
725.606
Security for the payment of benefits.
725.607
Payments of additional compensation.
725.608
Interest.
725.609
Enforcement against other persons.
725.620
Failure to secure benefits; other penalties.
725.621
Reports.

# Subpart J—Medical Benefits and Vocational Rehabilitation
725.701
What medical benefits are available?
725.702
Who is considered a physician?
725.703
How is treatment authorized?
725.704
How are arrangements for medical care made?
725.705
Is prior authorization for medical services required?
725.706
What reports must a medical provider give to OWCP?
725.707
At what rate will fees for medical services and treatments be paid?
725.708
How are payments for professional medical services and medical equipment determined?
725.709
How are payments for prescription drugs determined?
725.710
How are payments for outpatient medical services determined?
725.711
How are payments for inpatient medical services determined?
725.712
When and how are fees reduced?
725.713
If a fee is reduced, may a provider bill the claimant for the balance?
725.714
How do providers enroll with OWCP for authorizations and billing?
725.715
How do providers submit medical bills?
725.716
How should a miner prepare and submit requests for reimbursement for covered medical expenses and transportation costs?
725.717
What are the time limitations for requesting payment or reimbursement for covered medical services or treatments?
725.718
How are disputes concerning medical benefits resolved?
725.719
What is the objective of vocational rehabilitation?
725.720
How does a miner request vocational rehabilitation assistance?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990); Pub. L. 114-74 at sec. 701; Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950, 15 FR 3174; 30 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
902(f), 921, 932, 936; 33 U.S.C. 901
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 405; Secretary's Order 10-2009, 74 FR 58834.

# Source:
65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 725.1
Statutory provisions.
(a)
General.
Subchapter IV of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended by the Black Lung Benefits Act of 1972, the Federal Mine Safety and Health Amendments Act of 1977, the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977, the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1981, the Black Lung Consolidation of Responsibility Act of 2002, and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (together comprising the Black Lung Benefits Act (
see
§ 725.101(a)(1)) provides for the payment of benefits to certain disabled coal miners and their survivors.
See
§ 725.201.
(b)
Part B.
Part B of subchapter IV of the Act provided that claims filed before July 1, 1973 were to be filed with, and adjudicated and administered by, the Social Security Administration (SSA). If awarded, these claims were paid by SSA out of appropriated funds. The Black Lung Consolidation of Administrative Responsibility Act (
see
paragraph (h) of this section) transferred all responsibility for continued administration of these claims to the Department of Labor.
(c)
Part C.
Claims filed by a miner or survivor on or after January 1, 1974, are filed, adjudicated, and paid under the provisions of part C of subchapter IV of the Act. Part C requires that a claim filed on or after January 1, 1974, shall be filed under an applicable approved State workers' compensation law, or if no such law has been approved by the Secretary of Labor, the claim may be filed with the Secretary of Labor under Section 422 of the Act. Claims filed with the Secretary of Labor under part
C are processed and adjudicated by the Secretary. Individual coal mine operators are primarily liable for benefits; however, if the miner's last coal mine employment terminated before January 1, 1970, or if no responsible operator can be identified, benefits are paid by the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund. Claims adjudicated under part C are subject to certain incorporated provisions of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
(d)
Changes made by the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977.
The Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977 contains a number of significant amendments to the Act's standards for determining eligibility for benefits. Among these are:
(1) A provision which clarifies the definition of “pneumoconiosis” to include any “chronic dust disease of the lung and its sequelae, including respiratory and pulmonary impairments, arising out of coal mine employment”;
(2) A provision which defines “miner” to include any person who works or has worked in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility, and in coal mine construction or coal transportation under certain circumstances;
(3) A provision that continued employment in a coal mine is not conclusive proof that a miner is not or was not totally disabled;
(4) A provision which authorizes the Secretary of Labor to establish standards and develop criteria for determining total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis with respect to a part C claim;
(5) Provisions relating to the treatment to be accorded a survivor's affidavit, certain X-ray interpretations, and certain autopsy reports in the development of a claim; and
(6) Other clarifying, procedural, and technical amendments.
(e)
Changes made by the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977.
The Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977 established the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund which is financed by a specified tax imposed upon each ton of coal (except lignite) produced and sold or used in the United States after March 31, 1978. The Secretary of the Treasury is the managing trustee of the fund and benefits are paid from the fund upon the direction of the Secretary of Labor. The fund was made liable for the payment of all claims approved under part C of the Act for all periods of eligibility occurring on or after January 1, 1974, with respect to claims where the miner's last coal mine employment terminated before January 1, 1970, or where individual liability can not be assessed against a coal mine operator due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or the like. The fund was also authorized to pay certain claims which a responsible operator has refused to pay within a reasonable time, and to seek reimbursement from such operator. The purpose of the fund and the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977 was to insure that coal mine operators, or the coal industry, will fully bear the cost of black lung disease for the present time and in the future. The Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977 also contained other provisions relating to the fund and authorized a coal mine operator to establish its own trust fund for the payment of certain claims.
(f)
Changes made by the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981.
The Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981 made a number of significant changes in the Act's standards for determining eligibility for benefits and concerning the payment of such benefits, and applied the changes to claims filed on or after January 1, 1982. Among these are:
(1) The Secretary of Labor may re-read any X-ray submitted in support of a claim and may rely upon a second opinion concerning such an X-ray as a means of auditing the validity of the claim;
(2) The rebuttable presumption that the total disability of a miner with fifteen or more years employment in the coal mines, who has demonstrated a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment, is due to pneumoconiosis is no longer applicable (but the presumption was reinstated for claims filed after January 1, 2005, and pending on or after March 23, 2010, by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (
see
paragraph (i) of this section));
(3) In the case of deceased miners, where no medical or other relevant evidence is available, only affidavits from
persons not eligible to receive benefits as a result of the adjudication of the claim will be considered sufficient to establish entitlement to benefits;
(4) Unless the miner was found entitled to benefits as a result of a claim filed prior to January 1, 1982, benefits are payable on survivors' claims filed on and after January 1, 1982, only when the miner's death was due to pneumoconiosis (but for survivors' claims filed after January 1, 2005, and pending on or after March 23, 2010, an award of a miner's claim may form the basis for a survivor's entitlement under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (
see
paragraph (i) of this section));
(5) Benefits payable under this part are subject to an offset on account of excess earnings by the miner; and
(6) Other technical amendments.
(g)
Changes made by the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1981.
The Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1981 temporarily doubles the amount of the tax upon coal until the fund has repaid all advances received from the United States Treasury and the interest on all such advances. With respect to claims filed on or after January 1, 1982, the fund's authorization for the payment of interim benefits is limited to the payment of prospective benefits only. These changes also define the rates of interest to be paid to and by the fund.
(h)
Changes made by the Black Lung Consolidation of Administrative Responsibility Act.
The Black Lung Consolidation of Administrative Responsibility Act of 2002 transferred administrative responsibility for all claims previously filed with or administered by the Social Security Administration to the Department of Labor, effective January 31, 2003. As a result, certain obsolete provisions in the BLBA (30 U.S.C. 904, 924a, and 945) were repealed. Various technical changes were made to other statutory provisions.
(i)
Changes made by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010.
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the ACA) changed the entitlement criteria for miners' and survivors' claims filed after January 1, 2005, and pending on or after March 23, 2010, by reinstating two provisions made inapplicable by the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981.
(1) For miners' claims meeting these date requirements, the ACA reinstated the rebuttable presumption that the miner is (or was) totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis if the miner has (or had) 15 or more years of qualifying coal mine employment and a totally disabling respiratory or pulmonary impairment.
(2) For survivors' claims meeting these date requirements, the ACA made two changes. First, it reinstated the rebuttable presumption that the miner's death was due to pneumoconiosis if the miner had 15 years or more of qualifying coal mine employment and was totally disabled by a respiratory or pulmonary impairment at the time of death. Second, it reinstituted derivative survivors' entitlement. As a result, an eligible survivor will be entitled to benefits if the miner is or was found entitled to benefits on his or her lifetime claim based on total disability due to pneumoconiosis arising out of coal-mine employment.
(j)
Longshore Act provisions.
The adjudication of claims filed under part C of the Act (
i.e.,
claims filed on or after January 1, 1974) is governed by various procedural and other provisions contained in the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (LHWCA), as amended from time to time, which are incorporated within the Act by section 422. The incorporated LHWCA provisions are applicable under the Act except as is otherwise provided by the Act or as provided by regulations of the Secretary. Although occupational disease benefits are also payable under the LHWCA, the primary focus of the procedures set forth in that Act is upon a time-definite-traumatic injury or death. Because of this and other significant differences between a black lung and longshore claim, it is determined, in accordance with the authority set forth in Section 422 of the Act, that certain of the incorporated procedures prescribed by the LHWCA must be altered to fit the circumstances ordinarily confronted in the adjudication of a black lung claim. The changes made are based upon the Department's experience in processing black lung claims since July 1, 1973, and all such changes are specified in this part. No
other departure from the incorporated provisions of the LHWCA is intended.
(k)
Social Security Act provisions.
Section 402 of Part A of the Act incorporates certain definitional provisions from the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
Section 430 provides that the 1972, 1977 and 1981 amendments to part B of the Act shall also apply to part C “to the extent appropriate.” Sections 412 and 413 incorporate various provisions of the Social Security Act into part B of the Act. To the extent appropriate, therefore, these provisions also apply to part C. In certain cases, the Department has varied the terms of the Social Security Act provisions to accommodate the unique needs of the black lung benefits program. Parts of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act are also incorporated into part C. Where the incorporated provisions of the two acts are inconsistent, the Department has exercised its broad regulatory powers to choose the extent to which each incorporation is appropriate. Finally, Section 422(g), contained in part C of the Act, incorporates 42 U.S.C. 403(b)-(l).
[78 FR 59115, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.2
Purpose and applicability of this part.
(a) This part sets forth the procedures to be followed and standards to be applied in filing, processing, adjudicating, and paying claims filed under part C of subchapter IV of the Act.
(b) This part applies to all claims filed under part C of subchapter IV of the Act on or after June 30, 1982. Publication of certain provisions or parts of certain provisions that apply only to claims filed prior to June 30, 1982, or to claims subject to Section 435 of the Act, has been discontinued because those provisions affect an increasingly smaller number of claims. The version of Part 725 set forth in 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 2010, applies to the adjudication of all claims filed prior to June 30, 1982, as appropriate.
(c) The provisions of this part reflect revisions that became effective on January 19, 2001. This part applies to all claims filed after January 19, 2001 and all benefits payments made on such claims. With the exception of the following sections, this part also applies to the adjudication of claims that were pending on January 19, 2001 and all benefits payments made on such claims: §§ 725.101(a)(31), 725.204, 725.212(b), 725.213(c), 725.214(d), 725.219(d), 725.309, 725.310, 725.351, 725.360, 725.367, 725.406, 725.407, 725.408, 725.409, 725.410, 725.411, 725.412, 725.414, 725.415, 725.416, 725.417, 725.418, 725.421(b), 725.423, 725.454, 725.456, 725.457, 725.458, 725.459, 725.465, 725.491, 725.492, 725.493, 725.494, 725.495, 725.547, 725.701(e). The version of those sections set forth in 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 1999, apply to the adjudications of claims that were pending on January 19, 2001. For purposes of construing the provisions of this section, a claim will be considered pending on January 19, 2001 if it was not finally denied more than one year prior to that date.
[78 FR 59117, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.3
Contents of this part.
(a) This subpart describes the statutory provisions which relate to claims considered under this part, the purpose and scope of this part, definitions and usages of terms applicable to this part, and matters relating to the availability of information collected by the Department of Labor in connection with the processing of claims.
(b) Subpart B contains criteria for determining who may be found entitled to benefits under this part and other provisions relating to the conditions and duration of eligibility of a particular individual.
(c) Subpart C describes the procedures to be followed and action to be taken in connection with the filing of a claim under this part.
(d) Subpart D sets forth the duties and powers of the persons designated by the Secretary of Labor to adjudicate claims and provisions relating to the rights of parties and representatives of parties.
(e) Subpart E contains the procedures for developing evidence and adjudicating entitlement and liability issues by the district director.
(f) Subpart F describes the procedures to be followed if a hearing before the Office of Administrative Law Judges is required.
(g) Subpart G contains provisions governing the identification of a coal mine operator which may be liable for the payment of a claim.
(h) Subpart H contains provisions governing the payment of benefits with respect to an approved claim.
(i) Subpart I describes the statutory mechanisms provided for the enforcement of a coal mine operator's liability, sets forth the penalties which may be applied in the case of a defaulting coal mine operator, and describes the obligation of coal operators and their insurance carriers to file certain reports.
(j) Subpart J describes the right of certain beneficiaries to receive medical treatment benefits and vocational rehabilitation under the Act.
§ 725.4
Applicability of other parts in this title.
(a) Part 718. Part 718 of this subchapter, which contains the criteria and standards to be applied in determining whether a miner is or was totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis, or whether a miner died due to pneumoconiosis, shall be applicable to the determination of claims under this part. Claims filed after March 31, 1980, are subject to part 718 as promulgated by the Secretary in accordance with section 402(f)(1) of the Act on February 29, 1980 (see § 725.2(c)). The criteria contained in subpart C of part 727 of this subchapter are applicable in determining claims filed prior to April 1, 1980, under this part, and such criteria shall be applicable at all times with respect to claims filed under this part and under section 11 of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977.
(b)
Parts 715, 717, and 720.
Pertinent and significant provisions of Parts 715, 717, and 720 of this subchapter (formerly contained in 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 1978), which established the procedures for the filing, processing, and payment of claims filed under section 415 of the Act, are included within this part as appropriate.
(c)
Part 726.
Part 726 of this subchapter, which sets forth the obligations imposed upon a coal operator to insure or self-insure its liability for the payment of benefits to certain eligible claimants, is applicable to this part as appropriate.
(d)
Part 727.
Part 727 of this subchapter, which governs the review, adjudication and payment of pending and denied claims under section 435 of the Act, is applicable with respect to such claims. The criteria contained in subpart C of part 727 for determining a claimant's eligibility for benefits are applicable under this part with respect to all claims filed before April 1, 1980, and to all claims filed under this part and under section 11 of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977. Because the part 727 regulations affect an increasingly smaller number of claims, however, the Department has discontinued publication of the criteria in the Code of Federal Regulations. The part 727 criteria may be found at 43 FR 36818, Aug. 18, 1978 or 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 1999.
(e)
Part 410.
Part 410 of this title, which sets forth provisions relating to a claim for black lung benefits under part B of title IV of the Act, is inapplicable to this part except as is provided in this part, or in part 718 of this subchapter.
§ 725.101
Definition and use of terms.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this subchapter, except where the content clearly indicates otherwise, the following definitions apply:
(1) The
Act
means the Black Lung Benefits Act, 30 U.S.C. 901-44, as amended.
(2) The
Longshore
Act
or
LHWCA
means the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U.S.C. 901-950, as amended from time to time.
(3) The
Social Security Act
means the Social Security Act, Act of August 14, 1935, c. 531, 49 Stat. 620, 42 U.S.C. 301-431, as amended from time to time.
(4)
Administrative law judge
means a person qualified under
5 U.S.C. 3105
to conduct hearings and adjudicate claims for benefits filed pursuant to section 415 and part C of the Act. Until March 1, 1979, it also means an individual appointed to conduct such hearings and adjudicate such claims under Public Law 94-504.
(5)
Beneficiary
means a miner or any surviving spouse, divorced spouse,
child, parent, brother or sister, who is entitled to benefits under either section 415 or part C of title IV of the Act.
(6)
Benefits
means all money or other benefits paid or payable under section 415 or part C of title IV of the Act on account of disability or death due to pneumoconiosis, including augmented benefits (see § 725.520(c)). The term also includes any expenses related to the medical examination and testing authorized by the district director pursuant to § 725.406.
(7)
Benefits Review Board
or
Board
means the Benefits Review Board, U.S. Department of Labor, an appellate tribunal appointed by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the provisions of section 21(b)(1) of the LHWCA. See parts 801 and 802 of this title.
(8)
Black Lung Disability Trust Fund
or the
fund
means the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund established by the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977, as amended by the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1981, for the payment of certain claims adjudicated under this part (see subpart G of this part).
(9)
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Law Judges, U.S. Department of Labor, 800 K Street, NW., suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002.
(10)
Claim
means a written assertion of entitlement to benefits under section 415 or part C of title IV of the Act, submitted in a form and manner authorized by the provisions of this subchapter.
(11)
Claimant
means an individual who files a claim for benefits under this part.
(12)
Coal mine
means an area of land and all structures, facilities, machinery, tools, equipment, shafts, slopes, tunnels, excavations and other property, real or personal, placed upon, under or above the surface of such land by any person, used in, or to be used in, or resulting from, the work of extracting in such area bituminous coal, lignite or anthracite from its natural deposits in the earth by any means or method, and in the work of preparing the coal so extracted, and includes custom coal preparation facilities.
(13)
Coal preparation
means the breaking, crushing, sizing, cleaning, washing, drying, mixing, storing and loading of bituminous coal, lignite or anthracite, and such other work of preparing coal as is usually done by the operator of a coal mine.
(14)
Department
means the United States Department of Labor.
(15)
Director
means the Director, OWCP, or his or her designee.
(16)
District Director
means a person appointed as provided in sections 39 and 40 of the LHWCA, or his or her designee, who is authorized to develop and adjudicate claims as provided in this subchapter (see § 725.350). The term District Director is substituted for the term Deputy Commissioner wherever that term appears in the regulations. This substitution is for administrative purposes only and in no way affects the power or authority of the position as established in the statute. Any action taken by a person under the authority of a district director will be considered the action of a deputy commissioner.
(17)
Division
or
DCMWC
means the Division of Coal Mine Workers' Compensation in the OWCP, United States Department of Labor.
(18)
Insurer
or
carrier
means any private company, corporation, mutual association, reciprocal or interinsurance exchange, or any other person or fund, including any State fund, authorized under the laws of a State to insure employers' liability under workers' compensation laws. The term also includes the Secretary of Labor in the exercise of his or her authority under section 433 of the Act.
(19)
Miner
or
coal miner
means any individual who works or has worked in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility in the extraction or preparation of coal. The term also includes an individual who works or has worked in coal mine construction or transportation in or around a coal mine, to the extent such individual was exposed to coal mine dust as a result of such employment (see § 725.202). For purposes of this definition, the term does not include coke oven workers.
(20)
The Nation's coal mines
means all coal mines located in any State.
(21)
Office
or
OWCP
means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, United States Department of Labor.
(22)
Office of Administrative Law Judges
means the Office of Administrative Law Judges, U.S. Department of Labor.
(23)
Operator
means any owner, lessee, or other person who operates, controls or supervises a coal mine, including a prior or successor operator as defined in section 422 of the Act and certain transportation and construction employers (see subpart G of this part).
(24)
Person
means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, firm, subsidiary or parent of a corporation, or other organization or business entity.
(25)
Pneumoconiosis
means a chronic dust disease of the lung and its sequelae, including respiratory and pulmonary impairments, arising out of coal mine employment (see part 718 of this subchapter).
(26)
Responsible operator
means an operator which has been determined to be liable for the payment of benefits to a claimant for periods of eligibility after December 31, 1973, with respect to a claim filed under section 415 or part C of title IV of the Act or reviewed under section 435 of the Act.
(27)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor, or a person, authorized by him or her to perform his or her functions under title IV of the Act.
(28)
State
includes any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and prior to January 3, 1959, and August 21, 1959, respectively, the territories of Alaska and Hawaii.
(29)
Total disability
and
partial disability,
for purposes of this part, have the meaning given them as provided in part 718 of this subchapter.
(30)
Underground coal mine
means a coal mine in which the earth and other materials which lie above and around the natural deposit of coal (
i.e.
, overburden) are not removed in mining; including all land, structures, facilities, machinery, tools, equipment, shafts, slopes, tunnels, excavations and other property, real or personal, appurtenant thereto.
(31) A
workers' compensation law
means a law providing for payment of benefits to employees, and their dependents and survivors, for disability on account of injury, including occupational disease, or death, suffered in connection with their employment. A payment funded wholly out of general revenues shall not be considered a payment under a workers' compensation law.
(32)
Year
means a period of one calendar year (365 days, or 366 days if one of the days is February 29), or partial periods totaling one year, during which the miner worked in or around a coal mine or mines for at least 125 “working days.” A “working day” means any day or part of a day for which a miner received pay for work as a miner, but shall not include any day for which the miner received pay while on an approved absence, such as vacation or sick leave. In determining whether a miner worked for one year, any day for which the miner received pay while on an approved absence, such as vacation or sick leave, may be counted as part of the calendar year and as partial periods totaling one year.
(i) If the evidence establishes that the miner worked in or around coal mines at least 125 working days during a calendar year or partial periods totaling one year, then the miner has worked one year in coal mine employment for all purposes under the Act. If a miner worked fewer than 125 working days in a year, he or she has worked a fractional year based on the ratio of the actual number of days worked to 125. Proof that the miner worked more than 125 working days in a calendar year or partial periods totaling a year, does not establish more than one year.
(ii) To the extent the evidence permits, the beginning and ending dates of all periods of coal mine employment must be ascertained. The dates and length of employment may be established by any credible evidence including (but not limited to) company records, pension records, earnings statements, coworker affidavits, and sworn testimony. If the evidence establishes that the miner's employment
lasted for a calendar year or partial periods totaling a 365-day period amounting to one year, it must be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the miner spent at least 125 working days in such employment.
(iii) If the evidence is insufficient to establish the beginning and ending dates of the miner's coal mine employment, or the miner's employment lasted less than a calendar year, then the adjudication officer may use the following formula: divide the miner's yearly income from work as a miner by the coal mine industry's average daily earnings for that year, as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). A copy of the BLS table must be made a part of the record if the adjudication officer uses this method to establish the length of the miner's work history.
(iv) Periods of coal mine employment occurring outside the United States must not be considered in computing the miner's work history.
(b)
Statutory terms.
The definitions contained in this section must not be construed in derogation of terms of the Act.
(c)
Dependents and survivors.
Dependents and survivors are those persons described in subpart B of this part.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012; 78 FR 59117, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.102
Disclosure of program information.
(a) All reports, records, or other documents filed with the OWCP with respect to claims are the records of the OWCP. The Director or his or her designee shall be the official custodian of those records maintained by the OWCP at its national office. The District Director shall be the official custodian of those records maintained at a district office.
(b) The official custodian of any record sought to be inspected shall permit or deny inspection in accordance with the Department of Labor's regulations pertaining thereto (see 29 CFR Part 70). The original record in any such case shall not be removed from the Office of the custodian for such inspection. The custodian may, in his or her discretion, deny inspection of any record or part thereof which is of a character specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) if in his or her opinion such inspection may result in damage, harm, or harassment to the beneficiary or to any other person. For special provisions concerning release of information regarding injured employees undergoing vocational rehabilitation, see § 702.508 of this chapter.
(c) Any person may request copies of records he or she has been permitted to inspect. Such requests shall be addressed to the official custodian of the records sought to be copied. The official custodian shall provide the requested copies under the terms and conditions specified in the Department of Labor's regulations relating thereto (see 29 CFR Part 70).
(d) Any party to a claim (§ 725.360) or his or her duly authorized representative shall be permitted upon request to inspect the file which has been compiled in connection with such claim. Any party to a claim or representative of such party shall upon request be provided with a copy of any or all material contained in such claim file. A request for information by a party or representative made under this paragraph shall be answered within a reasonable time after receipt by the Office. Internal documents prepared by the district director which do not constitute evidence of a fact which must be established in connection with a claim shall not be routinely provided or presented for inspection in accordance with a request made under this paragraph.
§ 725.103
Burden of proof.
Except as otherwise provided in this part and part 718, the burden of proving a fact alleged in connection with any provision shall rest with the party making such allegation.

# Subpart B—Persons Entitled to Benefits, Conditions, and Duration of Entitlement
§ 725.201
Who is entitled to benefits; contents of this subpart.
(a) Part C of the Act provides for the payment of periodic benefits in accordance with this part to:
(1) A miner who meets the conditions of entitlement set forth in § 725.202(d); or
(2) The surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse of a deceased miner who meets the conditions of entitlement set forth in § 725.212; or,
(3) Where neither exists, the child of a deceased miner who meets the conditions of entitlement set forth in § 725.218; or
(4) The surviving dependent parents, where there is no surviving spouse or child, or the surviving dependent brothers or sisters, where there is no surviving spouse, child, or parent, of a miner, who meet the conditions of entitlement set forth in § 725.222; or
(5) The child of a miner's surviving spouse who was receiving benefits under Part C of the Act at the time of such spouse's death.
(b) The provisions contained in this subpart describe the conditions of entitlement to benefits applicable to a miner, or a surviving spouse, child, parent, brother, or sister, and the events which establish or terminate entitlement to benefits.
(c) In order for an entitled miner or surviving spouse to qualify for augmented benefits because of one or more dependents, such dependents must meet relationship and dependency requirements with respect to such beneficiary prescribed by or pursuant to the Act. Such requirements are also set forth in this subpart.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 59117, Sept. 25, 2013]

# Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner
§ 725.202
Miner defined; condition of entitlement, miner.
(a)
Miner defined.
A “miner” for the purposes of this part is any person who works or has worked in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility in the extraction, preparation, or transportation of coal, and any person who works or has worked in coal mine construction or maintenance in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any person working in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility is a miner. This presumption may be rebutted by proof that:
(1) The person was not engaged in the extraction, preparation or transportation of coal while working at the mine site, or in maintenance or construction of the mine site; or
(2) The individual was not regularly employed in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility.
(b)
Coal mine construction and transportation workers; special provisions.
A coal mine construction or transportation worker shall be considered a miner to the extent such individual is or was exposed to coal mine dust as a result of employment in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility. A transportation worker shall be considered a miner to the extent that his or her work is integral to the extraction or preparation of coal. A construction worker shall be considered a miner to the extent that his or her work is integral to the building of a coal or underground mine (see § 725.101(a)(12), (30)).
(1) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that such individual was exposed to coal mine dust during all periods of such employment occurring in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility for purposes of:
(i) Determining whether such individual is or was a miner;
(ii) Establishing the applicability of any of the presumptions described in section 411(c) of the Act and part 718 of this subchapter; and
(iii) Determining the identity of a coal mine operator liable for the payment of benefits in accordance with § 725.495.
(2) The presumption may be rebutted by evidence which demonstrates that:
(i) The individual was not regularly exposed to coal mine dust during his or her work in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility; or
(ii) The individual did not work regularly in or around a coal mine or coal preparation facility.
(c) A person who is or was a self-employed miner or independent contractor, and who otherwise meets the requirements of this paragraph, shall be considered a miner for the purposes of this part.
(d)
Conditions of entitlement; miner.
An individual is eligible for benefits under this subchapter if the individual:
(1) Is a miner as defined in this section; and
(2) Has met the requirements for entitlement to benefits by establishing that he or she:
(i) Has pneumoconiosis (see § 718.202), and
(ii) The pneumoconiosis arose out of coal mine employment (see § 718.203), and
(iii) Is totally disabled (see § 718.204(c)), and
(iv) The pneumoconiosis contributes to the total disability (see § 718.204(c)); and
(3) Has filed a claim for benefits in accordance with the provisions of this part.
§ 725.203
Duration and cessation of entitlement; miner.
(a) An individual is entitled to benefits as a miner for each month beginning with the first month on or after January 1, 1974, in which the miner is totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis arising out of coal mine employment.
(b) The last month for which such individual is entitled to benefits is the month before the month during which either of the following events first occurs:
(1) The miner dies; or
(2) The miner's total disability ceases (see § 725.504).
(c) An individual who has been finally adjudged to be totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis and is receiving benefits under the Act shall promptly notify the Office and the responsible coal mine operator, if any, if he or she engages in his or her usual coal mine work or comparable and gainful work.
(d) Upon reasonable notice, an individual who has been finally adjudged entitled to benefits shall submit to any additional tests or examinations the Office deems appropriate, and shall submit medical reports and other relevant evidence the Office deems necessary, if an issue arises pertaining to the validity of the original award.

# Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner's Dependents (Augmented Benefits)
§ 725.204
Determination of relationship; spouse.
(a) For the purpose of augmenting benefits, an individual will be considered to be the spouse of a miner if:
(1) The courts of the State in which the miner is domiciled would find that such individual and the miner validly married; or
(2) The courts of the State in which the miner is domiciled would find, under the law they would apply in determining the devolution of the miner's intestate personal property, that the individual is the miner's spouse; or
(3) Under State law, such individual would have the right of a spouse to share in the miner's intestate personal property; or
(4) Such individual went through a marriage ceremony with the miner resulting in a purported marriage between them and which, but for a legal impediment, would have been a valid marriage, unless the individual entered into the purported marriage with knowledge that it was not a valid marriage, or if such individual and the miner were not living in the same household in the month in which a request is filed that the miner's benefits be augmented because such individual qualifies as the miner's spouse.
(b) The qualification of an individual for augmentation purposes under this section shall end with the month before the month in which:
(1) The individual dies, or
(2) The individual who previously qualified as a spouse for purposes of § 725.520(c), entered into a valid marriage without regard to this section, with a person other than the miner.
§ 725.205
Determination of dependency; spouse.
For the purposes of augmenting benefits, an individual who is the miner's spouse (see § 725.204) will be determined to be dependent upon the miner if:
(a) The individual is a member of the same household as the miner (see § 725.232); or
(b) The individual is receiving regular contributions from the miner for support (see § 725.233(c)); or
(c) The miner has been ordered by a court to contribute to such individual's support (see § 725.233(e)); or
(d) The individual is the natural parent of the son or daughter of the miner; or
(e) The individual was married to the miner (see § 725.204) for a period of not less than 1 year.
§ 725.206
Determination of relationship; divorced spouse.
For the purposes of augmenting benefits with respect to any claim considered or reviewed under this part or part 727 of this subchapter (see § 725.4(d)), an individual will be considered to be the divorced spouse of a miner if the individual's marriage to the miner has been terminated by a final divorce on or after the 10th anniversary of the marriage unless, if such individual was married to and divorced from the miner more than once, such individual was married to the miner in each calendar year of the period beginning 10 years immediately before the date on which any divorce became final.
§ 725.207
Determination of dependency; divorced spouse.
For the purpose of augmenting benefits, an individual who is the miner's divorced spouse (§ 725.206) will be determined to be dependent upon the miner if:
(a) The individual is receiving at least one-half of his or her support from the miner (see § 725.233(g)); or
(b) The individual is receiving substantial contributions from the miner pursuant to a written agreement (see § 725.233(c) and (f)); or
(c) A court order requires the miner to furnish substantial contributions to the individual's support (see § 725.233(c) and (e)).
§ 725.208
Determination of relationship; child.
As used in this section, the term “beneficiary” means only a surviving spouse entitled to benefits at the time of death (see § 725.212), or a miner. An individual will be considered to be the child of a beneficiary if:
(a) The courts of the State in which the beneficiary is domiciled (see § 725.231) would find, under the law they would apply, that the individual is the beneficiary's child; or
(b) The individual is the legally adopted child of such beneficiary; or
(c) The individual is the stepchild of such beneficiary by reason of a valid marriage of the individual's parent or adopting parent to such beneficiary; or
(d) The individual does not bear the relationship of child to such beneficiary under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, but would, under State law, have the same right as a child to share in the beneficiary's intestate personal property; or
(e) The individual is the natural son or daughter of a beneficiary but is not a child under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and is not considered to be the child of the beneficiary under paragraph (d) of this section if the beneficiary and the mother or the father, as the case may be, of the individual went through a marriage ceremony resulting in a purported marriage between them which but for a legal impediment (see § 725.230) would have been a valid marriage; or
(f) The individual is the natural son or daughter of a beneficiary but is not a child under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and is not considered to be the child of the beneficiary under paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, such individual shall nevertheless be considered to be the child of the beneficiary if:
(1) The beneficiary, prior to his or her entitlement to benefits, has acknowledged in writing that the individual is his or her son or daughter, or has been decreed by a court to be the parent of the individual, or has been ordered by a court to contribute to the support of the individual (see § 725.233(e)) because the individual is his or her son or daughter; or
(2) Such beneficiary is shown by satisfactory evidence to be the father or mother of the individual and was living with or contributing to the support of the individual at the time the beneficiary became entitled to benefits.
§ 725.209
Determination of dependency; child.
(a) For purposes of augmenting the benefits of a miner or surviving spouse, the term “beneficiary” as used in this section means only a miner or surviving spouse entitled to benefits (see § 725.202 and § 725.212). An individual who is the beneficiary's child (§ 725.208) will be determined to be, or to have been, dependent on the beneficiary, if the child:
(1) Is unmarried; and
(2)(i) Is under 18 years of age; or
(ii) Is under a disability as defined in section 223(d) of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 423(d); or
(iii) Is 18 years of age or older and is a student.
(b)(1) The term “student” means a “full-time student” as defined in section 202(d)(7) of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 402(d)(7) (see §§ 404.367-404.369 of this title), or an individual under 23 years of age who has not completed 4 years of education beyond the high school level and who is regularly pursuing a full-time course of study or training at an institution which is:
(i) A school, college, or university operated or directly supported by the United States, or by a State or local government or political subdivision thereof; or
(ii) A school, college, or university which has been accredited by a State or by a State-recognized or nationally-recognized accrediting agency or body; or
(iii) A school, college, or university not so accredited but whose credits are accepted, on transfer, by at least three institutions which are so accredited; or
(iv) A technical, trade, vocational, business, or professional school accredited or licensed by the Federal or a State government or any political subdivision thereof, providing courses of not less than 3 months' duration that prepare the student for a livelihood in a trade, industry, vocation, or profession.
(2) A student will be considered to be “pursuing a full-time course of study or training at an institution” if the student is enrolled in a noncorrespondence course of at least 13 weeks duration and is carrying a subject load which is considered full-time for day students under the institution's standards and practices. A student beginning or ending a full-time course of study or training in part of any month will be considered to be pursuing such course for the entire month.
(3) A child is considered not to have ceased to be a student:
(i) During any interim between school years, if the interim does not exceed 4 months and the child shows to the satisfaction of the Office that he or she has a bona fide intention of continuing to pursue a full-time course of study or training; or
(ii) During periods of reasonable duration in which, in the judgment of the Office, the child is prevented by factors beyond the child's control from pursuing his or her education.
(4) A student whose 23rd birthday occurs during a semester or the enrollment period in which such student is pursuing a full-time course of study or training shall continue to be considered a student until the end of such period, unless eligibility is otherwise terminated.
§ 725.210
Duration of augmented benefits.
Augmented benefits payable on behalf of a spouse or divorced spouse, or a child, shall begin with the first month in which the dependent satisfies the conditions of relationship and dependency set forth in this subpart. Augmentation of benefits on account of a dependent continues through the month before the month in which the dependent ceases to satisfy these conditions, except in the case of a child who qualifies as a dependent because such child is a student. In the latter case, benefits continue to be augmented through the month before the first month during no part of which such child qualifies as a student.
§ 725.211
Time of determination of relationship and dependency of spouse or child for purposes of augmentation of benefits.
With respect to the spouse or child of a miner entitled to benefits, and with respect to the child of a surviving spouse entitled to benefits, the determination as to whether an individual
purporting to be a spouse or child is related to or dependent upon such miner or surviving spouse shall be based on the facts and circumstances present in each case, at the appropriate time.

# Conditions and Duration of Entitlement: Miner's Survivors
§ 725.212
Conditions of entitlement; surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse.
(a) An individual who is the surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse of a miner is eligible for benefits if such individual:
(1) Is not married;
(2) Was dependent on the miner at the pertinent time; and
(3) The deceased miner either:
(i) Is determined to have died due to pneumoconiosis; or
(ii) Filed a claim for benefits on or after January 1, 1982, which results or resulted in a final award of benefits, and the surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse filed a claim for benefits after January 1, 2005 which was pending on or after March 23, 2010.
(b) If more than one spouse meets the conditions of entitlement prescribed in paragraph (a), then each spouse will be considered a beneficiary for purposes of section 412(a)(2) of the Act without regard to the existence of any other entitled spouse or spouses.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 59117, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.213
Duration of entitlement; surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse.
(a) An individual is entitled to benefits as a surviving spouse, or as a surviving divorced spouse, for each month beginning with the first month in which all of the conditions of entitlement prescribed in § 725.212 are satisfied.
(b) The last month for which such individual is entitled to such benefits is the month before the month in which either of the following events first occurs:
(1) The surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse marries; or
(2) The surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse dies.
(c) A surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse whose entitlement to benefits has been terminated pursuant to § 725.213(b)(1) may thereafter again become entitled to such benefits upon filing application for such reentitlement, beginning with the first month after the marriage ends and such individual meets the requirements of § 725.212. The individual shall not be required to reestablish the miner's entitlement to benefits (§ 725.212(a)(3)(i)) or the miner's death due to pneumoconiosis (§ 725.212(a)(3)(ii)).
§ 725.214
Determination of relationship; surviving spouse.
An individual shall be considered to be the surviving spouse of a miner if:
(a) The courts of the State in which the miner was domiciled (see § 725.231) at the time of his or her death would find that the individual and the miner were validly married; or
(b) The courts of the State in which the miner was domiciled (see § 725.231) at the time of the miner's death would find that the individual was the miner's surviving spouse; or
(c) Under State law, such individual would have the right of the spouse to share in the miner's intestate personal property; or
(d) Such individual went through a marriage ceremony with the miner, resulting in a purported marriage between them which, but for a legal impediment (see § 725.230), would have been a valid marriage, unless such individual entered into the purported marriage with knowledge that it was not a valid marriage, or if such individual and the miner were not living in the same household at the time of the miner's death.
§ 725.215
Determination of dependency; surviving spouse.
An individual who is the miner's surviving spouse (see § 725.214) shall be determined to have been dependent on the miner if, at the time of the miner's death:
(a) The individual was living with the miner (see § 725.232); or
(b) The individual was dependent upon the miner for support or the miner has been ordered by a court to
contribute to such individual's support (see § 725.233); or
(c) The individual was living apart from the miner because of the miner's desertion or other reasonable cause; or
(d) The individual is the natural parent of the miner's son or daughter; or
(e) The individual had legally adopted the miner's son or daughter while the individual was married to the miner and while such son or daughter was under the age of 18; or
(f) The individual was married to the miner at the time both of them legally adopted a child under the age of 18; or
(g)(1) The individual was married to the miner for a period of not less than 9 months immediately before the day on which the miner died, unless the miner's death:
(i) Is accidental (as defined in paragraph (g)(2) of this section), or
(ii) Occurs in line of duty while the miner is a member of a uniformed service serving on active duty (as defined in § 404.1019 of this title), and the surviving spouse was married to the miner for a period of not less than 3 months immediately prior to the day on which such miner died.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, the death of a miner is accidental if such individual received bodily injuries solely through violent, external, and accidental means, and as a direct result of the bodily injuries and independently of all other causes, dies not later than 3 months after the day on which such miner receives such bodily injuries. The term “accident” means an event that was unpremeditated and unforeseen from the standpoint of the deceased individual. To determine whether the death of an individual did, in fact, result from an accident the adjudication officer will consider all the circumstances surrounding the casualty. An intentional and voluntary suicide will not be considered to be death by accident; however, suicide by an individual who is so incompetent as to be incapable of acting intentionally and voluntarily will be considered to be a death by accident. In no event will the death of an individual resulting from violent and external causes be considered a suicide unless there is direct proof that the fatal injury was self-inflicted.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (g) shall not apply if the adjudication officer determines that at the time of the marriage involved, the miner would not reasonably have been expected to live for 9 months.
§ 725.216
Determination of relationship; surviving divorced spouse.
An individual will be considered to be the surviving divorced spouse of a deceased miner in a claim considered under this part or reviewed under part 727 of this subchapter (see § 725.4(d)), if such individual's marriage to the miner had been terminated by a final divorce on or after the 10th anniversary of the marriage unless, if such individual was married to and divorced from the miner more than once, such individual was married to such miner in each calendar year of the period beginning 10 years immediately before the date on which any divorce became final and ending with the year in which the divorce became final.
§ 725.217
Determination of dependency; surviving divorced spouse.
An individual who is the miner's surviving divorced spouse (see § 725.216) shall be determined to have been dependent on the miner if, for the month before the month in which the miner died:
(a) The individual was receiving at least one-half of his or her support from the miner (see § 725.233(g)); or
(b) The individual was receiving substantial contributions from the miner pursuant to a written agreement (see § 725.233(c) and (f)); or
(c) A court order required the miner to furnish substantial contributions to the individual's support (see § 725.233(c) and (e)).
§ 725.218
Conditions of entitlement; child.
(a) An individual is entitled to benefits where he or she meets the required standards of relationship and dependency under this subpart (see § 725.220 and § 725.221) and is the child of a deceased miner who:
(1) Is determined to have died due to pneumoconiosis; or
(2) Filed a claim for benefits on or after January 1, 1982, which results or resulted in a final award of benefits, and the surviving child filed a claim for benefits after January 1, 2005 which was pending on or after March 23, 2010.
(b) A child is not entitled to benefits for any month for which a miner, or the surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse of a miner, establishes entitlement to benefits.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 59117, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.219
Duration of entitlement; child.
(a) An individual is entitled to benefits as a child for each month beginning with the first month in which all of the conditions of entitlement prescribed in § 725.218 are satisfied.
(b) The last month for which such individual is entitled to such benefits is the month before the month in which any one of the following events first occurs:
(1) The child dies;
(2) The child marries;
(3) The child attains age 18; and
(i) Is not a student (as defined in § 725.209(b)) during any part of the month in which the child attains age 18; and
(ii) Is not under a disability (as defined in § 725.209(a)(2)(ii)) at that time;
(4) If the child's entitlement beyond age 18 is based on his or her status as a student, the earlier of:
(i) The first month during no part of which the child is a student; or
(ii) The month in which the child attains age 23 and is not under a disability (as defined in § 725.209(a)(2)(ii)) at that time;
(5) If the child's entitlement beyond age 18 is based on disability, the first month in no part of which such individual is under a disability.
(c) A child whose entitlement to benefits terminated with the month before the month in which the child attained age 18, or later, may thereafter (provided such individual is not married) again become entitled to such benefits upon filing application for such reentitlement, beginning with the first month after termination of benefits in which such individual is a student and has not attained the age of 23.
(d) A child whose entitlement to benefits has been terminated pursuant to § 725.219(b)(2) may thereafter again become entitled to such benefits upon filing application for such reentitlement, beginning with the first month after the marriage ends and such individual meets the requirements of § 725.218. The individual shall not be required to reestablish the miner's entitlement to benefits (§ 725.218(a)(1)) or the miner's death due to pneumoconiosis (§ 725.212(a)(2)).
§ 725.220
Determination of relationship; child.
For purposes of determining whether an individual may qualify for benefits as the child of a deceased miner, the provisions of § 725.208 shall be applicable. As used in this section, the term “beneficiary” means only a surviving spouse entitled to benefits at the time of such surviving spouse's death (see § 725.212), or a miner. For purposes of a survivor's claim, an individual will be considered to be a child of a beneficiary if:
(a) The courts of the State in which such beneficiary is domiciled (see § 725.231) would find, under the law they would apply in determining the devolution of the beneficiary's intestate personal property, that the individual is the beneficiary's child; or
(b) Such individual is the legally adopted child of such beneficiary; or
(c) Such individual is the stepchild of such beneficiary by reason of a valid marriage of such individual's parent or adopting parent to such beneficiary; or
(d) Such individual does not bear the relationship of child to such beneficiary under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, but would, under State law, have the same right as a child to share in the beneficiary's intestate personal property; or
(e) Such individual is the natural son or daughter of a beneficiary but does not bear the relationship of child to such beneficiary under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and is not considered to be the child of the beneficiary under paragraph (d) of this section, such individual shall nevertheless be considered to be the child of such beneficiary if the beneficiary and the mother or father, as the case may be,
of such individual went through a marriage ceremony resulting in a purported marriage between them which but for a legal impediment (see § 725.230) would have been a valid marriage; or
(f) Such individual is the natural son or daughter of a beneficiary but does not have the relationship of child to such beneficiary under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and is not considered to be the child of the beneficiary under paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, such individual shall nevertheless be considered to be the child of such beneficiary if:
(1) Such beneficiary, prior to his or her entitlement to benefits, has acknowledged in writing that the individual is his or her son or daughter, or has been decreed by a court to be the father or mother of the individual, or has been ordered by a court to contribute to the support of the individual (see § 725.233(a)) because the individual is a son or daughter; or
(2) Such beneficiary is shown by satisfactory evidence to be the father or mother of the individual and was living with or contributing to the support of the individual at the time such beneficiary became entitled to benefits.
§ 725.221
Determination of dependency; child.
For the purposes of determining whether a child was dependent upon a deceased miner, the provisions of § 725.209 shall be applicable, except that for purposes of determining the eligibility of a child who is under a disability as defined in section 223(d) of the Social Security Act, such disability must have begun before the child attained age 22, or in the case of a student, before the child ceased to be a student.
§ 725.222
Conditions of entitlement; parent, brother, or sister.
(a) An individual is eligible for benefits as a surviving parent, brother or sister if all of the following requirements are met:
(1) The individual is the parent, brother, or sister of a deceased miner;
(2) The individual was dependent on the miner at the pertinent time;
(3) Proof of support is filed within 2 years after the miner's death, unless the time is extended for good cause (§ 725.226);
(4) In the case of a brother or sister, such individual also:
(i) Is under 18 years of age; or
(ii) Is under a disability as defined in section 223(d) of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 423(d), which began before such individual attained age 22, or in the case of a student, before the student ceased to be a student; or
(iii) Is a student (see § 725.209(b)); or
(iv) Is under a disability as defined in section 223(d) of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 423(d), at the time of the miner's death;
(5) The deceased miner:
(i) Is determined to have died due to pneumoconiosis; or
(ii) Filed a claim for benefits on or after January 1, 1982, which results or resulted in a final award of benefits, and the surviving parent, brother or sister filed a claim for benefits after January 1, 2005 which was pending on or after March 23, 2010.
(b)(1) A parent is not entitled to benefits if the deceased miner was survived by a spouse or child at the time of such miner's death.
(2) A brother or sister is not entitled to benefits if the deceased miner was survived by a spouse, child, or parent at the time of such miner's death.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 59117, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.223
Duration of entitlement; parent, brother, or sister.
(a) A parent, sister, or brother is entitled to benefits beginning with the month all the conditions of entitlement described in § 725.222 are met.
(b) The last month for which such parent is entitled to benefits is the month in which the parent dies.
(c) The last month for which such brother or sister is entitled to benefits is the month before the month in which any of the following events first occurs:
(1) The individual dies;
(2)(i) The individual marries or remarries; or
(ii) If already married, the individual received support in any amount from his or her spouse;
(3) The individual attains age 18; and
(i) Is not a student (as defined in § 725.209(b)) during any part of the month in which the individual attains age 18; and
(ii) Is not under a disability (as defined in § 725.209(a)(2)(ii)) at that time;
(4) If the individual's entitlement beyond age 18 is based on his or her status as a student, the earlier of:
(i) The first month during no part of which the individual is a student; or
(ii) The month in which the individual attains age 23 and is not under a disability (as defined in § 725.209(a)(2)(ii)) at that time;
(5) If the individual's entitlement beyond age 18 is based on disability, the first month in no part of which such individual is under a disability.
§ 725.224
Determination of relationship; parent, brother, or sister.
(a) An individual will be considered to be the parent, brother, or sister of a miner if the courts of the State in which the miner was domiciled (see § 225.231) at the time of death would find, under the law they would apply, that the individual is the miner's parent, brother, or sister.
(b) Where, under State law, the individual is not the miner's parent, brother, or sister, but would, under State law, have the same status (
i.e.,
right to share in the miner's intestate personal property) as a parent, brother, or sister, the individual will be considered to be the parent, brother, or sister as appropriate.
§ 725.225
Determination of dependency; parent, brother, or sister.
An individual who is the miner's parent, brother, or sister will be determined to have been dependent on the miner if, during the 1-year period immediately prior to the miner's death:
(a) The individual and the miner were living in the same household (see § 725.232); and
(b) The individual was totally dependent on the miner for support (see § 725.233(h)).
§ 725.226
“Good cause” for delayed filing of proof of support.
(a)
What constitutes “good cause.”
“Good cause” may be found for failure to file timely proof of support where the parent, brother, or sister establishes to the satisfaction of the Office that such failure to file was due to:
(1) Circumstances beyond the individual's control, such as extended illness, mental, or physical incapacity, or communication difficulties; or
(2) Incorrect or incomplete information furnished the individual by the Office; or
(3) Efforts by the individual to secure supporting evidence without a realization that such evidence could be submitted after filing proof of support.
(b)
What does not constitute “good cause.”
“Good cause” for failure to file timely proof of support (see § 725.222(a)(3)) does not exist when there is evidence of record in the Office that the individual was informed that he or she should file within the prescribed period and he or she failed to do so deliberately or through negligence.
§ 725.227
Time of determination of relationship and dependency of survivors.
The determination as to whether an individual purporting to be an entitled survivor of a miner or beneficiary was related to, or dependent upon, the miner is made after such individual files a claim for benefits as a survivor. Such determination is based on the facts and circumstances with respect to a reasonable period of time ending with the miner's death. A prior determination that such individual was, or was not, a dependent for the purposes of augmenting the miner's benefits for a certain period, is not determinative of the issue of whether the individual is a dependent survivor of such miner.
§ 725.228
Effect of conviction of felonious and intentional homicide on entitlement to benefits.
An individual who has been convicted of the felonious and intentional homicide of a miner or other beneficiary shall not be entitled to receive any benefits payable because of the death of such miner or other beneficiary, and such person shall be considered nonexistent in determining the entitlement to benefits of other individuals.

# Terms Used in This Subpart
§ 725.229
Intestate personal property.
References in this subpart to the “same right to share in the intestate personal property” of a deceased miner (or surviving spouse) refer to the right of an individual to share in such distribution in the individual's own right and not the right of representation.
§ 725.230
Legal impediment.
For purposes of this subpart, “legal impediment” means an impediment resulting from the lack of dissolution of a previous marriage or otherwise arising out of such previous marriage or its dissolution or resulting from a defect in the procedure followed in connection with the purported marriage ceremony—for example, the solemnization of a marriage only through a religious ceremony in a country which requires a civil ceremony for a valid marriage.
§ 725.231
Domicile.
(a) For purposes of this subpart, the term “domicile” means the place of an individual's true, fixed, and permanent home.
(b) The domicile of a deceased miner or surviving spouse is determined as of the time of death.
(c) If an individual was not domiciled in any State at the pertinent time, the law of the District of Columbia is applied.
§ 725.232
Member of the same household—“living with,” “living in the same household,” and “living in the miner's household,” defined.
(a)
Defined.
(1) The term “member of the same household” as used in section 402(a)(2) of the Act (with respect to a spouse); the term “living with” as used in section 402(e) of the Act (with respect to a surviving spouse); and the term “living in the same household” as used in this subpart, means that a husband and wife were customarily living together as husband and wife in the same place.
(2) The term “living in the miner's household” as used in section 412(a)(5) of the Act (with respect to a parent, brother, or sister) means that the miner and such parent, brother, or sister were sharing the same residence.
(b)
Temporary absence.
The temporary absence from the same residence of either the miner, or the miner's spouse, parent, brother, or sister (as the case may be), does not preclude a finding that one was “living with” the other, or that they were “members of the same household.” The absence of one such individual from the residence in which both had customarily lived shall, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be considered temporary:
(1) If such absence was due to service in the Armed Forces of the United States; or
(2) If the period of absence from his or her residence did not exceed 6 months and the absence was due to business or employment reasons, or because of confinement in a penal institution or in a hospital, nursing home, or other curative institution; or
(3) In any other case, if the evidence establishes that despite such absence they nevertheless reasonably expected to resume physically living together.
(c)
Relevant period of time.
(1) The determination as to whether a surviving spouse had been “living with” the miner shall be based upon the facts and circumstances as of the time of the death of the miner.
(2) The determination as to whether a spouse is a “member of the same household” as the miner shall be based upon the facts and circumstances with respect to the period or periods of time as to which the issue of membership in the same household is material.
(3) The determination as to whether a parent, brother, or sister was “living in the miner's household” shall take account of the 1-year period immediately prior to the miner's death.
§ 725.233
Support and contributions.
(a)
Support
defined. The term “support” includes food, shelter, clothing, ordinary medical expenses, and other ordinary and customary items for the maintenance of the person supported.
(b)
Contributions
defined. The term “contributions” refers to contributions actually provided by the contributor from such individual's property, or the use thereof, or by the use of such individual's own credit.
(c)
Regular contributions
and
substantial contributions
defined. The terms
“regular contributions” and “substantial contributions” mean contributions that are customary and sufficient to constitute a material factor in the cost of the individual's support.
(d)
Contributions and community property.
When a spouse receives and uses for his or her support income from services or property, and such income, under applicable State law, is the community property of the wife and her husband, no part of such income is a “contribution” by one spouse to the other's support regardless of the legal interest of the donor. However, when a spouse receives and uses for support, income from the services and the property of the other spouse and, under applicable State law, such income is community property, all of such income is considered to be a contribution by the donor to the spouse's support.
(e)
Court order for support
defined. References to a support order in this subpart means any court order, judgment, or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction which requires regular contributions that are a material factor in the cost of the individual's support and which is in effect at the applicable time. If such contributions are required by a court order, this condition is met whether or not the contributions were actually made.
(f)
Written agreement
defined. The term “written agreement” in the phrase “substantial contributions pursuant to a written agreement”, as used in this subpart means an agreement signed by the miner providing for substantial contributions by the miner for the individual's support. It must be in effect at the applicable time but it need not be legally enforceable.
(g)
One-half support
defined. The term “one-half support” means that the miner made regular contributions, in cash or in kind, to the support of a divorced spouse at the specified time or for the specified period, and that the amount of such contributions equalled or exceeded one-half the total cost of such individual's support at such time or during such period.
(h)
Totally dependent for support
defined. The term “totally dependent for support” as used in § 725.225(b) means that the miner made regular contributions to the support of the miner's parents, brother, or sister, as the case may be, and that the amount of such contributions at least equalled the total cost of such individual's support.

# Subpart C—Filing of Claims
§ 725.301
Who may file a claim.
(a) Any person who believes he or she may be entitled to benefits under the Act may file a claim in accordance with this subpart.
(b) A claimant who has attained the age of 18, is mentally competent and physically able, may file a claim on his or her own behalf.
(c) If a claimant is unable to file a claim on his or her behalf because of a legal or physical impairment, the following rules shall apply:
(1) A claimant between the ages of 16 and 18 years who is mentally competent and not under the legal custody or care of another person, or a committee or institution, may upon filing a statement to the effect, file a claim on his or her own behalf. In any other case where the claimant is under 18 years of age, only a person, or the manager or principal officer of an institution having legal custody or care of the claimant may file a claim on his or her behalf.
(2) If a claimant over 18 years of age has a legally appointed guardian or committee, only the guardian or committee may file a claim on his or her behalf.
(3) If a claimant over 18 years of age is mentally incompetent or physically unable to file a claim and is under the care of another person, or an institution, only the person, or the manager or principal officer of the institution responsible for the care of the claimant, may file a claim on his or her behalf.
(4) For good cause shown, the Office may accept a claim executed by a person other than one described in paragraphs (c)(2) or (3) of this section.
(d) Except as provided in § 725.305, in order for a claim to be considered, the claimant must be alive at the time the claim is filed.
§ 725.302
Evidence of authority to file a claim on behalf of another.
A person filing a claim on behalf of a claimant shall submit evidence of his or her authority to so act at the time of filing or at a reasonable time thereafter in accordance with the following:
(a) A legally appointed guardian or committee shall provide the Office with certification of appointment by a proper official of the court.
(b) Any other person shall provide a statement describing his or her relationship to the claimant, the extent to which he or she has care of the claimant, or his or her position as an officer of the institution of which the claimant is an inmate. The Office may, at any time, require additional evidence to establish the authority of any such person.
§ 725.303
Date and place of filing of claims.
(a)(1) Claims for benefits shall be delivered, mailed to, or presented at, any of the various district offices of the Social Security Administration, or any of the various offices of the Department of Labor authorized to accept claims, or, in the case of a claim filed by or on behalf of a claimant residing outside the United States, mailed or presented to any office maintained by the Foreign Service of the United States. A claim shall be considered filed on the day it is received by the office in which it is first filed.
(2) A claim submitted to a Foreign Service Office or any other agency or subdivision of the U.S. Government shall be forwarded to the Office and considered filed as of the date it was received at the Foreign Service Office or other governmental agency or unit.
(b) A claim submitted by mail shall be considered filed as of the date of delivery unless a loss or impairment of benefit rights would result, in which case a claim shall be considered filed as of the date of its postmark. In the absence of a legible postmark, other evidence may be used to establish the mailing date.
§ 725.304
Forms and initial processing.
(a) Claims shall be filed on forms prescribed and approved by the Office. The district office at which the claim is filed will assist claimants in completing their forms.
(b) If the place at which a claim is filed is an office of the Social Security Administration, such office shall forward the completed claim form to an office of the DCMWC, which is authorized to process the claim.
§ 725.305
When a written statement is considered a claim.
(a) The filing of a statement signed by an individual indicating an intention to claim benefits shall be considered to be the filing of a claim for the purposes of this part under the following circumstances:
(1) The claimant or a proper person on his or her behalf (see § 725.301) executes and files a prescribed claim form with the Office during the claimant's lifetime within the period specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Where the claimant dies within the period specified in paragraph (b) of this section without filing a prescribed claim form, and a person acting on behalf of the deceased claimant's estate executes and files a prescribed claim form within the period specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Upon receipt of a written statement indicating an intention to claim benefits, the Office shall notify the signer in writing that to be considered the claim must be executed by the claimant or a proper party on his or her behalf on the prescribed form and filed with the Office within six months from the date of mailing of the notice.
(c) If before the notice specified in paragraph (b) of this section is sent, or within six months after such notice is sent, the claimant dies without having executed and filed a prescribed form, or without having had one executed and filed in his or her behalf, the Office shall upon receipt of notice of the claimant's death advise his or her estate, or those living at his or her last known address, in writing that for the claim to be considered, a prescribed claim form must be executed and filed by a person authorized to do so on behalf of the claimant's estate within six months of the date of the later notice.
(d) Claims based upon written statements indicating an intention to claim benefits not perfected in accordance
with this section shall not be processed.
§ 725.306
Withdrawal of a claim.
(a) A claimant or an individual authorized to execute a claim on a claimant's behalf or on behalf of claimant's estate under § 725.305, may withdraw a previously filed claim provided that:
(1) He or she files a written request with the appropriate adjudication officer indicating the reasons for seeking withdrawal of the claim;
(2) The appropriate adjudication officer approves the request for withdrawal on the grounds that it is in the best interests of the claimant or his or her estate, and;
(3) Any payments made to the claimant in accordance with § 725.522 are reimbursed.
(b) When a claim has been withdrawn under paragraph (a) of this section, the claim will be considered not to have been filed.
§ 725.307
Cancellation of a request for withdrawal.
At any time prior to approval, a request for withdrawal may be canceled by a written request of the claimant or a person authorized to act on the claimant's behalf or on behalf of the claimant's estate.
§ 725.308
Time limits for filing claims.
(a) A claim for benefits filed under this part by, or on behalf of, a miner shall be filed within three years after a medical determination of total disability due to pneumoconiosis which has been communicated to the miner or a person responsible for the care of the miner, or within three years after the date of enactment of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, whichever is later. There is no time limit on the filing of a claim by the survivor of a miner.
(b) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that every claim for benefits is timely filed.The time limits in this section are mandatory and may not be waived or tolled except upon a showing of extraordinary circumstances.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 83 FR 27695, June 14, 2018]
§ 725.309
Additional claims; effect of prior denial of benefits.
(a) If a claimant files a claim under this part while another claim filed by the claimant under this part is still pending, the later claim must be merged with the earlier claim for all purposes. For purposes of this section, a claim must be considered pending if it has not yet been finally denied.
(b) If a claimant files a claim under this part within one year after the effective date of a final order denying a claim previously filed by the claimant under this part (see § 725.502(a)(2)), the later claim must be considered a request for modification of the prior denial and will be processed and adjudicated under § 725.310.
(c) If a claimant files a claim under this part more than one year after the effective date of a final order denying a claim previously filed by the claimant under this part (see § 725.502(a)(2)), the later claim must be considered a subsequent claim for benefits. A subsequent claim will be processed and adjudicated in accordance with the provisions of subparts E and F of this part. Except as provided in paragraph (1) below, a subsequent claim must be denied unless the claimant demonstrates that one of the applicable conditions of entitlement (see §§ 725.202(d) (miner), 725.212 (spouse), 725.218 (child), and 725.222 (parent, brother, or sister)) has changed since the date upon which the order denying the prior claim became final. The applicability of this paragraph may be waived by the operator or fund, as appropriate. The following additional rules apply to the adjudication of a subsequent claim:
(1) The requirement to establish a change in an applicable condition of entitlement does not apply to a survivor's claim if the requirements of §§ 725.212(a)(3)(ii), 725.218(a)(2), or 725.222(a)(5)(ii) are met, and the survivor's prior claim was filed—
(i) On or before January 1, 2005, or
(ii) After January 1, 2005 and was finally denied prior to March 23, 2010.
(2) Any evidence submitted in connection with any prior claim must be made a part of the record in the subsequent claim, provided that it was not excluded in the adjudication of the prior claim.
(3) For purposes of this section, the applicable conditions of entitlement are limited to those conditions upon which the prior denial was based. For example, if the claim was denied solely on the basis that the individual was not a miner, the subsequent claim must be denied unless the individual worked as a miner following the prior denial. Similarly, if the claim was denied because the miner did not meet one or more of the eligibility criteria contained in part 718 of this subchapter, the subsequent claim must be denied unless the miner meets at least one of the criteria that he or she did not meet previously.
(4) If the applicable condition(s) of entitlement relate to the miner's physical condition, the subsequent claim may be approved only if new evidence submitted in connection with the subsequent claim establishes at least one applicable condition of entitlement. A subsequent claim filed by a surviving spouse, child, parent, brother, or sister must be denied unless the applicable conditions of entitlement in such claim include at least one condition unrelated to the miner's physical condition at the time of his death.
(5) If the claimant demonstrates a change in one of the applicable conditions of entitlement, no findings made in connection with the prior claim, except those based on a party's failure to contest an issue (see § 725.463), will be binding on any party in the adjudication of the subsequent claim. However, any stipulation made by any party in connection with the prior claim will be binding on that party in the adjudication of the subsequent claim.
(6) In any case in which a subsequent claim is awarded, no benefits may be paid for any period prior to the date upon which the order denying the prior claim became final.
(d) In any case involving more than one claim filed by the same claimant, under no circumstances are duplicate benefits payable for concurrent periods of eligibility. Any duplicate benefits paid will be subject to collection or offset under subpart H of this part.
[78 FR 59118, Sept. 25, 2013]
§ 725.310
Modification of awards and denials.
(a) Upon his or her own initiative, or upon the request of any party on grounds of a change in conditions or because of a mistake in a determination of fact, the district director may, at any time before one year from the date of the last payment of benefits, or at any time before one year after the denial of a claim, reconsider the terms of an award or denial of benefits.
(b) Modification proceedings must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this part as appropriate, except that the claimant and the operator, or group of operators or the fund, as appropriate, are each entitled to submit no more than one additional chest X-ray interpretation, one additional pulmonary function test, one additional arterial blood gas study, and one additional medical report in support of its affirmative case along with such rebuttal evidence and additional statements as are authorized by paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(3)(ii) of § 725.414. Modification proceedings may not be initiated before an administrative law judge or the Benefits Review Board.
(c) At the conclusion of modification proceedings before the district director, the district director may issue a proposed decision and order (§ 725.418) or, if appropriate, deny the claim by reason of abandonment (§ 725.409). In any case in which the district director has initiated modification proceedings on his own initiative to alter the terms of an award or denial of benefits issued by an administrative law judge, the district director must, at the conclusion of modification proceedings, forward the claim for a hearing (§ 725.421). In any case forwarded for a hearing, the administrative law judge assigned to hear such case must consider whether any additional evidence submitted by the parties demonstrates a change in condition and, regardless of whether the parties have submitted new evidence, whether the evidence of record demonstrates a mistake in a determination of fact.
(d) An order issued following the conclusion of modification proceedings may terminate, continue, reinstate, increase or decrease benefit payments or
award benefits. Such order must not affect any benefits previously paid, except that an order increasing the amount of benefits payable based on a finding of a mistake in a determination of fact may be made effective on the date from which benefits were determined payable by the terms of an earlier award. In the case of an award which is decreased, no payment made in excess of the decreased rate prior to the date upon which the party requested reconsideration under paragraph (a) of this section will be subject to collection or offset under subpart H of this part, provided the claimant is without fault as defined by § 725.543. In the case of an award which is decreased following the initiation of modification by the district director, no payment made in excess of the decreased rate prior to the date upon which the district director initiated modification proceedings under paragraph (a) will be subject to collection or offset under subpart H of this part, provided the claimant is without fault as defined by § 725.543. In the case of an award which has become final and is thereafter terminated, no payment made prior to the date upon which the party requested reconsideration under paragraph (a) will be subject to collection or offset under subpart H of this part. In the case of an award which has become final and is thereafter terminated following the initiation of modification by the district director, no payment made prior to the date upon which the district director initiated modification proceedings under paragraph (a) will be subject to collection or offset under subpart H of this part.
(e)(1) In this paragraph, an order is “effective” as described in § 725.502(a) and “final” as described in §§ 725.419(d), 725.479(a) or 802.406.
(2) Any modification request by an operator must be denied unless the operator proves that at the time of the request, the operator has:
(i) Paid to the claimant all monetary benefits, including retroactive benefits and interest under § 725.502(b)(2), due under any effective order;
(ii) Paid to the claimant all additional compensation (
see
§ 725.607) due under an effective order;
(iii) Paid all medical benefits (
see
§ 725.701
et seq.
) due under any effective award, but only if the order awards payment of specific medical expenses;
(iv) Paid all final orders awarding attorney's fees and expenses under § 725.367 and witness fees under § 725.459, but only if the underlying benefits order is final (
see
§ 725.367(b)); and
(v) Reimbursed the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, with interest, for all benefits paid under the orders described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) or (iii) of this section and the costs for the medical examination under § 725.406.
(3) The requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section are inapplicable to any benefits owed pursuant to an effective but non-final order if the payment of such benefits has been stayed by the Benefits Review Board or appropriate court under 33 U.S.C. 921.
(4) Except as provided by paragraph (e)(5) of this section, the operator must submit all documentary evidence pertaining to its compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section to the district director concurrently with its request for modification. The claimant is also entitled to submit any relevant evidence to the district director. Absent extraordinary circumstances, no documentary evidence pertaining to the operator's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) at the time of the modification request will be admitted into the hearing record or otherwise considered at any later stage of the proceeding.
(5) The requirements imposed by paragraph (e)(2) of this section are continuing in nature. If at any time during the modification proceedings the operator fails to meet the payment obligations described, the adjudication officer must issue an order to show cause why the operator's modification request should not be denied and afford all parties time to respond to such order. Responses may include evidence pertaining to the operator's continued compliance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2). If, after the time for response has expired, the adjudication officer determines that the operator is not meeting its obligations, the adjudication officer must deny the operator's modification request.
(6) The denial of a request for modification under this section will not bar any future modification request by the operator, so long as the operator satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section with each future modification petition.
(7) The provisions of this paragraph apply to all modification requests filed on or after May 26, 2016.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 24479, Apr. 26, 2016]
§ 725.311
Communications with respect to claims; time computations.
(a) Unless otherwise specified by this part, all requests, responses, notices, decisions, orders, or other communications required or permitted by this part shall be in writing.
(b) If required by this part, any document, brief, or other statement submitted in connection with the adjudication of a claim under this part shall be sent to each party to the claim by the submitting party. If proof of service is required with respect to any communication, such proof of service shall be submitted to the appropriate adjudication officer and filed as part of the claim record.
(c) In computing any period of time described in this part, by any applicable statute, or by the order of any adjudication officer, the day of the act or event from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period extends until the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. “Legal holiday” includes New Year's Day, Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and any other day appointed as a holiday by the President or the Congress of the United States.
(d) In computing any period of time described in this part in which the period within which to file a response commences upon receipt of a document, it shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the document was received on the seventh day after it was mailed. In any case in which a provision of this part requires a document to be sent to a person or party by certified mail, and the document is not sent by certified mail, but the person or party actually received the document, the document shall be deemed to have been sent in compliance with the provisions of this part. In such a case, any time period which commences upon the service of the document shall commence on the date the document was received.

# Subpart D—Adjudication Officers; Parties and Representatives
§ 725.350
Who are the adjudication officers?
(a)
General.
The persons authorized by the Secretary of Labor to accept evidence and decide claims on the basis of such evidence are called “adjudication officers.” This section describes the status of black lung claims adjudication officers.
(b)
District Director.
The district director is that official of the DCMWC or his designee who is authorized to perform functions with respect to the development, processing, and adjudication of claims in accordance with this part.
(c)
Administrative law judge.
An administrative law judge is that official appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 (or Public Law 94-504) who is qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 557 and is empowered by the Secretary to conduct formal hearings with respect to, and adjudicate, claims in accordance with this part. A person appointed under Public Law 94-504 shall not be considered an administrative law judge for purposes of this part for any period after March 1, 1979.
§ 725.351
Powers of adjudication officers.
(a)
District Director.
The district director is authorized to:
(1) Make determinations with respect to claims as is provided in this part;
(2) Conduct conferences and informal discovery proceedings as provided in this part;
(3) Compel the production of documents by the issuance of a subpoena;
(4) Prepare documents for the signature of parties;
(5) Issue appropriate orders as provided in this part; and
(6) Do all other things necessary to enable him or her to discharge the duties of the office.
(b) Administrative Law Judge. An administrative law judge is authorized to:
(1) Conduct formal hearings in accordance with the provisions of this part;
(2) Administer oaths and examine witnesses;
(3) Compel the production of documents and appearance of witnesses by the issuance of subpoenas;
(4) Issue decisions and orders with respect to claims as provided in this part; and
(5) Do all other things necessary to enable him or her to discharge the duties of the office.
(c) If any person in proceedings before an adjudication officer disobeys or resists any lawful order or process, or misbehaves during a hearing or so near the place thereof as to obstruct the same, or neglects to produce, after having been ordered to do so, any pertinent book, paper or document, or refuses to appear after having been subpoenaed, or upon appearing refuses to take the oath as a witness, or after having taken the oath refuses to be examined according to law, the district director, or the administrative law judge responsible for the adjudication of the claim, shall certify the facts to the Federal district court having jurisdiction in the place in which he or she is sitting (or to the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia if he or she is sitting in the District) which shall thereupon in a summary manner hear the evidence as to the acts complained of, and, if the evidence so warrants, punish such person in the same manner and to the same extent as for a contempt committed before the court, or commit such person upon the same condition as if the doing of the forbidden act had occurred with reference to the process or in the presence of the court.
§ 725.352
Disqualification of adjudication officer.
(a) No adjudication officer shall conduct any proceedings in a claim in which he or she is prejudiced or partial, or where he or she has any interest in the matter pending for decision. A decision to withdraw from the consideration of a claim shall be within the discretion of the adjudication officer. If that adjudication officer withdraws, another officer shall be designated by the Director or the Chief Administrative Law Judge, as the case may be, to complete the adjudication of the claim.
(b) No adjudication officer shall be permitted to appear or act as a representative of a party under this part while such individual is employed as an adjudication officer. No adjudication officer shall be permitted at any time to appear or act as a representative in connection with any case or claim in which he or she was personally involved. No fee or reimbursement shall be awarded under this part to an individual who acts in violation of this paragraph.
(c) No adjudication officer shall act in any claim involving a party which employed such adjudication officer within one year before the adjudication of such claim.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, no adjudication officer shall be permitted to act in any claim involving a party who is related to the adjudication officer by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree as determined by the law of the place where such party is domiciled. Any action taken by an adjudication officer in knowing violation of this paragraph shall be void.
§ 725.360
Parties to proceedings.
(a) Except as provided in § 725.361, no person other than the Secretary of Labor and authorized personnel of the Department of Labor shall participate at any stage in the adjudication of a claim for benefits under this part, unless such person is determined by the appropriate adjudication officer to qualify under the provisions of this section as a party to the claim. The following persons shall be parties:
(1) The claimant;
(2) A person other than a claimant, authorized to execute a claim on such claimant's behalf under § 725.301;
(3) Any coal mine operator notified under § 725.407 of its possible liability for the claim;
(4) Any insurance carrier of such operator; and
(5) The Director in all proceedings relating to a claim for benefits under this part.
(b) A widow, child, parent, brother, or sister, or the representative of a decedent's estate, who makes a showing in writing that his or her rights with respect to benefits may be prejudiced by a decision of an adjudication officer, may be made a party.
(c) Any coal mine operator or prior operator or insurance carrier which has not been notified under § 725.407 and which makes a showing in writing that its rights may be prejudiced by a decision of an adjudication officer may be made a party.
(d) Any other individual may be made a party if that individual's rights with respect to benefits may be prejudiced by a decision to be made.
§ 725.361
Party amicus curiae.
At the discretion of the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the administrative law judge assigned to the case, a person or entity which is not a party may be allowed to participate amicus curiae in a formal hearing only as to an issue of law. A person may participate amicus curiae in a formal hearing upon written request submitted with supporting arguments prior to the hearing. If the request is granted, the administrative law judge hearing the case will inform the party of the extent to which participation will be permitted. The request may, however, be denied summarily and without explanation.
§ 725.362
Representation of parties.
(a) Except for the Secretary of Labor, whose interests shall be represented by the Solicitor of Labor or his or her designee, each of the parties may appoint an individual to represent his or her interest in any proceeding for determination of a claim under this part. Such appointment shall be made in writing or on the record at the hearing. An attorney qualified in accordance with § 725.363(a) shall file a written declaration that he or she is authorized to represent a party, or declare his or her representation on the record at a formal hearing. Any other person (see § 725.363(b)) shall file a written notice of appointment signed by the party or his or her legal guardian, or enter his or her appearance on the record at a formal hearing if the party he or she seeks to represent is present and consents to the representation. Any written declaration or notice required by this section shall include the OWCP number assigned by the Office and shall be sent to the Office or, for representation at a formal hearing, to the Chief Administrative Law Judge. In any case, such representative must be qualified under § 725.363. No authorization for representation or agreement between a claimant and representative as to the amount of a fee, filed with the Social Security Administration in connection with a claim under part B of title IV of the Act, shall be valid under this part. A claimant who has previously authorized a person to represent him or her in connection with a claim originally filed under part B of title IV may renew such authorization by filing a statement to such effect with the Office or appropriate adjudication officer.
(b) Any party may waive his or her right to be represented in the adjudication of a claim. If an adjudication officer determines, after an appropriate inquiry has been made, that a claimant who has been informed of his or her right to representation does not wish to obtain the services of a representative, such adjudication officer shall proceed to consider the claim in accordance with this part, unless it is apparent that the claimant is, for any reason, unable to continue without the help of a representative. However, it shall not be necessary for an adjudication officer to inquire as to the ability of a claimant to proceed without representation in any adjudication taking place without a hearing. The failure of a claimant to obtain representation in an adjudication taking place without a hearing shall be considered a waiver of the claimant's right to representation. However, at any time during the processing or adjudication of a claim, any claimant may revoke such waiver and obtain a representative.
§ 725.363
Qualification of representative.
(a)
Attorney.
Any attorney in good standing who is admitted to practice before a court of a State, territory, district, or insular possession, or before the Supreme Court of the United States or other Federal court and is not, pursuant to any provision of law, prohibited from acting as a representative, may be appointed as a representative.
(b)
Other person.
With the approval of the adjudication officer, any other person may be appointed as a representative so long as that person is not, pursuant to any provision of law, prohibited from acting as a representative.
§ 725.364
Authority of representative.
A representative, appointed and qualified as provided in §§ 725.362 and 725.363, may make or give on behalf of the party he or she represents, any request or notice relative to any proceeding before an adjudication officer, including formal hearing and review, except that such representative may not execute a claim for benefits, unless he or she is a person designated in § 725.301 as authorized to execute a claim. A representative shall be entitled to present or elicit evidence and make allegations as to facts and law in any proceeding affecting the party represented and to obtain information with respect to the claim of such party to the same extent as such party. Notice given to any party of any administrative action, determination, or decision, or request to any party for the production of evidence shall be sent to the representative of such party and such notice or request shall have the same force and effect as if it had been sent to the party represented.
§ 725.365
Approval of representative's fees; lien against benefits.
No fee charged for representation services rendered to a claimant with respect to any claim under this part shall be valid unless approved under this subpart. No contract or prior agreement for a fee shall be valid. In cases where the obligation to pay the attorney's fee is upon the claimant, the amount of the fee awarded may be made a lien upon the benefits due under an award and the adjudication officer shall fix, in the award approving the fee, such lien and the manner of payment of the fee. Any representative who is not an attorney may be awarded a fee for services under this subpart, except that no lien may be imposed with respect to such representative's fee.
§ 725.366
Fees for representatives.
(a) A representative seeking a fee for services performed on behalf of a claimant shall make application therefor to the district director, administrative law judge, or appropriate appellate tribunal, as the case may be, before whom the services were performed. The application shall be filed and served upon the claimant and all other parties within the time limits allowed by the district director, administrative law judge, or appropriate appellate tribunal. The application shall be supported by a complete statement of the extent and character of the necessary work done, and shall indicate the professional status (e.g., attorney, paralegal, law clerk, lay representative or clerical) of the person performing such work, and the customary billing rate for each such person. The application shall also include a listing of reasonable unreimbursed expenses, including those for travel, incurred by the representative or an employee of a representative in establishing the claimant's case. Any fee requested under this paragraph shall also contain a description of any fee requested, charged, or received for services rendered to the claimant before any State or Federal court or agency in connection with a related matter.
(b) Any fee approved under paragraph (a) of this section shall be reasonably commensurate with the necessary work done and shall take into account the quality of the representation, the qualifications of the representative, the complexity of the legal issues involved, the level of proceedings to which the claim was raised, the level at which the representative entered the proceedings, and any other information which may be relevant to the amount of fee requested. No fee approved shall include payment for time spent in preparation of a fee application. No fee
shall be approved for work done on claims filed between December 30, 1969, and June 30, 1973, under part B of title IV of the Act, except for services rendered on behalf of the claimant in regard to the review of the claim under section 435 of the Act and part 727 of this subchapter (see § 725.4(d)).
(c) In awarding a fee, the appropriate adjudication officer shall consider, and shall add to the fee, the amount of reasonable and unreimbursed expenses incurred in establishing the claimant's case. Reimbursement for travel expenses incurred by an attorney shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of § 725.459(a). No reimbursement shall be permitted for expenses incurred in obtaining medical or other evidence which has previously been submitted to the Office in connection with the claim.
(d) Upon receipt of a request for approval of a fee, such request shall be reviewed and evaluated by the appropriate adjudication officer and a fee award issued. Any party may request reconsideration of a fee awarded by the adjudication officer. A revised or modified fee award may then be issued, if appropriate.
(e) Each request for reconsideration or review of a fee award shall be in writing and shall contain supporting statements or information pertinent to any increase or decrease requested. If a fee awarded by a district director is disputed, such award shall be appealable directly to the Benefits Review Board. In such a fee dispute case, the record before the Board shall consist of the order of the district director awarding or denying the fee, the application for a fee, any written statement in opposition to the fee and the documentary evidence contained in the file which verifies or refutes any item claimed in the fee application.
§ 725.367
Payment of a claimant's attorney's fee by responsible operator or fund.
(a) An attorney who represents a claimant in the successful prosecution of a claim for benefits may be entitled to collect a reasonable attorney's fee from the responsible operator that is ultimately found liable for the payment of benefits, or, in a case in which there is no operator who is liable for the payment of benefits, from the fund. Generally, the operator or fund liable for the payment of benefits shall be liable for the payment of the claimant's attorney's fees where the operator or fund, as appropriate, took action, or acquiesced in action, that created an adversarial relationship between itself and the claimant. The fees payable under this section shall include reasonable fees for necessary services performed prior to the creation of the adversarial relationship. Circumstances in which a successful attorney's fees shall be payable by the responsible operator or the fund include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The responsible operator designated by the district director (see § 725.410(a)(3)) fails to accept the claimant's entitlement to benefits within the 30-day period provided by § 725.412(b) and is ultimately determined to be liable for benefits. The operator shall be liable for an attorney's fee with respect to all necessary services performed by the claimant's attorney;
(2) There is no operator that may be held liable for the payment of benefits, and the district director issues a schedule for the submission of additional evidence under § 725.410. The fund shall be liable for an attorney's fee with respect to all necessary services performed by the claimant's attorney;
(3) The claimant submits a bill for medical treatment, and the party liable for the payment of benefits declines to pay the bill on the grounds that the treatment is unreasonable, or is for a condition that is not compensable. The responsible operator or fund, as appropriate, shall be liable for an attorney's fee with respect to all necessary services performed by the claimant's attorney;
(4) A beneficiary seeks an increase in the amount of benefits payable, and the responsible operator or fund contests the claimant's right to that increase. If the beneficiary is successful in securing an increase in the amount of benefits payable, the operator or fund shall be liable for an attorney's fee with respect to all necessary services performed by the beneficiary's attorney;
(5) The responsible operator or fund seeks a decrease in the amount of benefits payable. If the beneficiary is successful in resisting the request for a decrease in the amount of benefits payable, the operator or fund shall be liable for an attorney's fee with respect to all necessary services performed by the beneficiary's attorney. A request for information clarifying the amount of benefits payable shall not be considered a request to decrease that amount.
(b) Any fee awarded under this section shall be in addition to the award of benefits, and shall be awarded, in an order, by the district director, administrative law judge, Board or court, before whom the work was performed. The operator or fund shall pay such fee promptly and directly to the claimant's attorney in a lump sum after the award of benefits becomes final.
(c) Section 205(a) of the Black Lung Benefits Amendments of 1981, Public Law 97-119, amended section 422 of the Act and relieved operators and carriers from liability for the payment of benefits on certain claims. Payment of benefits on those claims was made the responsibility of the fund. The claims subject to this transfer of liability are described in § 725.496. On claims subject to the transfer of liability described in this paragraph the fund will pay all fees and costs which have been or will be awarded to claimant's attorneys which were or would have become the liability of an operator or carrier but for the enactment of the 1981 Amendments and which have not already been paid by such operator or carrier. Section 9501(d)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.), which was also enacted as a part of the 1981 Amendments to the Act, expressly prohibits the fund from reimbursing an operator or carrier for any attorney fees or costs which it has paid on cases subject to the transfer of liability provisions.

# Subpart E—Adjudication of Claims by the District Director
§ 725.401
Claims development—general.
After a claim has been received by the district director, the district director shall take such action as is necessary to develop, process, and make determinations with respect to the claim as provided in this subpart.
§ 725.402
Approved State workers' compensation law.
If a district director determines that any claim filed under this part is one subject to adjudication under a workers' compensation law approved under part 722 of this subchapter, he or she shall advise the claimant of this determination and of the Act's requirement that the claim must be filed under the applicable State workers' compensation law. The district director shall then prepare a proposed decision and order dismissing the claim for lack of jurisdiction pursuant to § 725.418 and proceed as appropriate.
§ 725.403
[Reserved]
§ 725.404
Development of evidence—general.
(a)
Employment history.
Each claimant shall furnish the district director with a complete and detailed history of the coal miner's employment and, upon request, supporting documentation.
(b)
Matters of record.
Where it is necessary to obtain proof of age, marriage or termination of marriage, death, family relationship, dependency (see subpart B of this part), or any other fact which may be proven as a matter of public record, the claimant shall furnish such proof to the district director upon request.
(c)
Documentary evidence.
If a claimant is required to submit documents to the district director, the claimant shall submit either the original, a certified copy or a clear readable copy thereof. The district director or administrative law judge may require the submission of an original document or certified copy thereof, if necessary.
(d)
Submission of insufficient evidence.
In the event a claimant submits insufficient evidence regarding any matter, the district director shall inform the claimant of what further evidence is necessary and request that such evidence be submitted within a specified reasonable time which may, upon request, be extended for good cause.
§ 725.405
Development of medical evidence; scheduling of medical examinations and tests.
(a) Upon receipt of a claim, the district director shall ascertain whether the claim was filed by or on account of a miner as defined in § 725.202, and in the case of a claim filed on account of a deceased miner, whether the claim was filed by an eligible survivor of such miner as defined in subpart B of this part.
(b) In the case of a claim filed by or on behalf of a miner, the district director shall, where necessary, schedule the miner for a medical examination and testing under § 725.406.
(c) In the case of a claim filed by or on behalf of a survivor of a miner, the district director shall obtain whatever medical evidence is necessary and available for the development and evaluation of the claim.
(d) The district director shall, where appropriate, collect other evidence necessary to establish:
(1) The nature and duration of the miner's employment; and
(2) All other matters relevant to the determination of the claim.
(e) If at any time during the processing of the claim by the district director, the evidence establishes that the claimant is not entitled to benefits under the Act, the district director may terminate evidentiary development of the claim and proceed as appropriate.
§ 725.406
Medical examinations and tests.
(a) The Act requires the Department to provide each miner who applies for benefits with the opportunity to undergo a complete pulmonary evaluation at no expense to the miner. A complete pulmonary evaluation includes a report of physical examination, a pulmonary function study, a chest radiograph, and, unless medically contraindicated, a blood gas study.
(b) As soon as possible after a miner files an application for benefits, the district director will provide the miner with a list of medical facilities and physicians in the state of the miner's residence and states contiguous to the state of the miner's residence that the Office has authorized to perform complete pulmonary evaluations. The miner must select one of the facilities or physicians on the list, provided that the miner may not select any physician to whom the miner or the miner's spouse is related to the fourth degree of consanguinity, and the miner may not select any physician who has examined or provided medical treatment to the miner within the twelve months preceding the date of the miner's application. The district director will make arrangements for the miner to be given a complete pulmonary evaluation by that facility or physician. The results of the complete pulmonary evaluation must not be counted as evidence submitted by the miner under § 725.414.
(c) If any medical examination or test conducted under paragraph (a) of this section is not administered or reported in substantial compliance with the provisions of part 718 of this subchapter, or does not provide sufficient information to allow the district director to decide whether the miner is eligible for benefits, the district director must schedule the miner for further examination and testing. Where the deficiencies in the report are the result of a lack of effort on the part of the miner, the miner will be afforded one additional opportunity to produce a satisfactory result. In order to determine whether any medical examination or test was administered and reported in substantial compliance with the provisions of part 718 of this subchapter, the district director may have any component of such examination or test reviewed by a physician selected by the district director.
(d) After the physician completes the report authorized by paragraph (a), the district director will inform the miner that he may elect to have the results of the objective testing sent to his treating physician for use in preparing a medical opinion. The district director will also inform the claimant that any medical opinion submitted by his treating physician will count as one of the two medical opinions that the miner may submit under § 725.414 of this part.
(e) The cost of any medical examination or test authorized under this section, including the cost of travel to and from the examination, must be paid by
the fund. Reimbursement for overnight accommodations must not be authorized unless the district director determines that an adequate testing facility is unavailable within one day's round trip travel by automobile from the miner's residence. The fund must be reimbursed for such payments by an operator, if any, found liable for the payment of benefits to the claimant. If an operator fails to repay such expenses, with interest, upon request of the Office, the entire amount may be collected in an action brought under section 424 of the Act and § 725.603.
[65 FR 80054, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 35558, June 13, 2013; 79 FR 21615, Apr. 17, 2014]
§ 725.407
Identification and notification of responsible operator.
(a) Upon receipt of the miner's employment history, the district director shall investigate whether any operator may be held liable for the payment of benefits as a responsible operator in accordance with the criteria contained in Subpart G of this part.
(b) The district director may identify one or more operators potentially liable for the payment of benefits in accordance with the criteria set forth in § 725.495 of this part. The district director shall notify each such operator of the existence of the claim. Where the records maintained by the Office pursuant to part 726 of this subchapter indicate that the operator had obtained a policy of insurance, and the claim falls within such policy, the notice provided pursuant to this section shall also be sent to the operator's carrier. Any operator or carrier notified of the claim shall thereafter be considered a party to the claim in accordance with § 725.360 of this part unless it is dismissed by an adjudication officer and is not thereafter notified again of its potential liability.
(c) The notification issued pursuant to this section shall include a copy of the claimant's application and a copy of all evidence obtained by the district director relating to the miner's employment. The district director may request the operator to answer specific questions, including, but not limited to, questions related to the nature of its operations, its relationship with the miner, its financial status, including any insurance obtained to secure its obligations under the Act, and its relationship with other potentially liable operators. A copy of any notification issued pursuant to this section shall be sent to the claimant by regular mail.
(d) If at any time before a case is referred to the Office of Administrative Law Judges, the district director determines that an operator which may be liable for the payment of benefits has not been notified under this section or has been incorrectly dismissed pursuant to § 725.410(a)(3), the district director shall give such operator notice of its potential liability in accordance with this section. The adjudication officer shall then take such further action on the claim as may be appropriate. There shall be no time limit applicable to a later identification of an operator under this paragraph if the operator fraudulently concealed its identity as an employer of the miner. The district director may not notify additional operators of their potential liability after a case has been referred to the Office of Administrative Law Judges, unless the case was referred for a hearing to determine whether the claim was properly denied as abandoned pursuant to § 725.409.
§ 725.408
Operator's response to notification.
(a)(1) An operator which receives notification under § 725.407 shall, within 30 days of receipt, file a response indicating its intent to accept or contest its identification as a potentially liable operator. The operator's response shall also be sent to the claimant by regular mail.
(2) If the operator contests its identification, it shall, on a form supplied by the district director, state the precise nature of its disagreement by admitting or denying each of the following assertions. In answering these assertions, the term “operator” shall include any operator for which the identified operator may be considered a successor operator pursuant to § 725.492.
(i) That the named operator was an operator for any period after June 30, 1973;
(ii) That the operator employed the miner as a miner for a cumulative period of not less than one year;
(iii) That the miner was exposed to coal mine dust while working for the operator;
(iv) That the miner's employment with the operator included at least one working day after December 31, 1969; and
(v) That the operator is capable of assuming liability for the payment of benefits.
(3) An operator which receives notification under § 725.407, and which fails to file a response within the time limit provided by this section, shall not be allowed to contest its liability for the payment of benefits on any of the grounds set forth in paragraph (a)(2).
(b)(1) Within 90 days of the date on which it receives notification under § 725.407, an operator may submit documentary evidence in support of its position.
(2) No documentary evidence relevant to the grounds set forth in paragraph (a)(2) may be admitted in any further proceedings unless it is submitted within the time limits set forth in this section.
§ 725.409
Denial of a claim by reason of abandonment.
(a) A claim may be denied at any time by the district director by reason of abandonment where the claimant fails:
(1) To undergo a required medical examination without good cause; or,
(2) To submit evidence sufficient to make a determination of the claim; or,
(3) To pursue the claim with reasonable diligence; or,
(4) To attend an informal conference without good cause.
(b)(1) If the district director determines that a denial by reason of abandonment under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section is appropriate, he or she shall notify the claimant of the reasons for such denial and of the action which must be taken to avoid a denial by reason of abandonment. If the claimant completes the action requested within the time allowed, the claim shall be developed, processed and adjudicated as specified in this part. If the claimant does not fully comply with the action requested by the district director, the district director shall notify the claimant that the claim has been denied by reason of abandonment. Such notification shall be served on the claimant and all other parties to the claim by certified mail.
(2) In any case in which a claimant has failed to attend an informal conference and has not provided the district director with his reasons for failing to attend, the district director shall ask the claimant to explain his absence. In considering whether the claimant had good cause for his failure to attend the conference, the district director shall consider all relevant circumstances, including the age, education, and health of the claimant, as well as the distance between the claimant's residence and the location of the conference. If the district director concludes that the claimant had good cause for failing to attend the conference, he may continue processing the claim, including, where appropriate under § 725.416, the scheduling of an informal conference. If the claimant does not supply the district director with his reasons for failing to attend the conference within 30 days of the date of the district director's request, or the district director concludes that the reasons supplied by the claimant do not establish good cause, the district director shall notify the claimant that the claim has been denied by reason of abandonment. Such notification shall be served on the claimant and all other parties to the claim by certified mail.
(c) The denial of a claim by reason of abandonment shall become effective and final unless, within 30 days after the denial is issued, the claimant requests a hearing. Following the expiration of the 30-day period, a new claim may be filed at any time pursuant to § 725.309. For purposes of § 725.309, a denial by reason of abandonment shall be deemed a finding that the claimant has not established any applicable condition of entitlement. If the claimant timely requests a hearing, the district director shall refer the case to the Office of Administrative Law Judges in accordance with § 725.421. Except upon the motion or written agreement of the Director, the hearing will be limited to the issue of whether the claim was
properly denied by reason of abandonment. If the hearing is limited to the issue of abandonment and the administrative law judge determines that the claim was not properly denied by reason of abandonment, he shall remand the claim to the district director for the completion of administrative processing.
§ 725.410
Submission of additional evidence.
(a) After the district director completes the development of medical evidence under § 725.405 of this part, including the complete pulmonary evaluation authorized by § 725.406, and receives the responses and evidence submitted pursuant to § 725.408, he shall issue a schedule for the submission of additional evidence. The schedule shall contain the following information:
(1) If the claim was filed by, or on behalf of, a miner, the schedule shall contain a summary of the complete pulmonary evaluation administered pursuant to § 725.406. If the claim was filed by, or on behalf of, a survivor, the schedule shall contain a summary of any medical evidence developed by the district director pursuant to § 725.405(c).
(2) The schedule shall contain the district director's preliminary analysis of the medical evidence. If the district director believes that the evidence fails to establish any necessary element of entitlement, he shall inform the claimant of the element of entitlement not established and the reasons for his conclusions and advise the claimant that, unless he submits additional evidence, the district director will issue a proposed decision and order denying the claim.
(3) The schedule shall contain the district director's designation of a responsible operator liable for the payment of benefits. In the event that the district director has designated as the responsible operator an employer other than the employer who last employed the claimant as a miner, the district director shall include, with the schedule, a copy of the statements required by § 725.495(d) of this part. The district director may, in his discretion, dismiss as parties any of the operators notified of their potential liability pursuant to § 725.407. If the district director thereafter determines that the participation of a party dismissed pursuant to this section is required, he may once again notify the operator in accordance with § 725.407(d).
(4) The schedule shall notify the claimant and the designated responsible operator that they have the right to obtain further adjudication of the claim in accordance with this subpart, and that they have the right to submit additional evidence in accordance with this subpart. The schedule shall also notify the claimant that he has the right to obtain representation, under the terms set forth in subpart D, in order to assist him. In a case in which the district director has designated a responsible operator pursuant to paragraph (a)(3), the schedule shall further notify the claimant that if the operator fails to accept the claimant's entitlement to benefits within the time limit provided by § 725.412, the cost of obtaining additional medical and other necessary evidence, along with a reasonable attorney's fee, shall be reimbursed by the responsible operator in the event that the claimant establishes his entitlement to benefits payable by that operator. In a case in which there is no operator liable for the payment of benefits, the schedule shall notify the claimant that the cost of obtaining additional medical and other necessary evidence, along with a reasonable attorney's fee, shall be reimbursed by the fund.
(b) The schedule shall allow all parties not less than 60 days within which to submit additional evidence, including evidence relevant to the claimant's eligibility for benefits and evidence relevant to the liability of the designated responsible operator, and shall provide not less than an additional 30 days within which the parties may respond to evidence submitted by other parties. Any such evidence must meet the requirements set forth in § 725.414 in order to be admitted into the record.
(c) The district director shall serve a copy of the schedule, together with a copy of all of the evidence developed, on the claimant, the designated responsible operator, and all other operators which received notification pursuant to
§ 725.407. The schedule shall be served on each party by certified mail.
§ 725.411
Initial adjudication in Trust Fund cases.
Notwithstanding the requirements of § 725.410 of this part, if the district director concludes that the results of the complete pulmonary evaluation support a finding of eligibility, and that there is no operator responsible for the payment of benefits, the district director shall issue a proposed decision and order in accordance with § 725.418 of this part.
§ 725.412
Operator's response.
(a)(1) Within 30 days after the district director issues a schedule pursuant to § 725.410 of this part containing a designation of the responsible operator liable for the payment of benefits, that operator shall file a response with regard to its liability. The response shall specifically indicate whether the operator agrees or disagrees with the district director's designation.
(2) If the responsible operator designated by the district director does not file a timely response, it shall be deemed to have accepted the district director's designation with respect to its liability, and to have waived its right to contest its liability in any further proceeding conducted with respect to the claim.
(b) The responsible operator designated by the district director may also file a statement accepting claimant's entitlement to benefits. If that operator fails to file a timely response to the district director's designation, the district director shall, upon receipt of such a statement, issue a proposed decision and order in accordance with § 725.418 of this part. If the operator fails to file a statement accepting the claimant's entitlement to benefits within 30 days after the district director issues a schedule pursuant to § 725.410 of this part, the operator shall be deemed to have contested the claimant's entitlement.
§ 725.413
Disclosure of medical information.
(a) For purposes of this section, medical information is any written medical data, including data in electronic format, about the miner that a party develops in connection with a claim for benefits, including medical data developed with any prior claim that has not been disclosed previously to the other parties. Medical information includes, but is not limited to—
(1) Any examining physician's written or testimonial assessment of the miner, including the examiner's findings, diagnoses, conclusions, and the results of any tests;
(2) Any other physician's written or testimonial assessment of the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition;
(3) The results of any test or procedure related to the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition, including any information relevant to the test or procedure's administration; and
(4) Any physician's or other medical professional's interpretation of the results of any test or procedure related to the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition.
(b) For purposes of this section, medical information does not include—
(1) Any record of a miner's hospitalization or other medical treatment; or
(2) Communications from a party's representative to a medical expert.
(c) Each party must disclose medical information the party or the party's agent receives by sending a complete copy of the information to all other parties in the claim within 30 days after receipt. If the information is received after the claim is already scheduled for hearing before an administrative law judge, the disclosure must be made at least 20 days before the scheduled hearing is held (
see
§ 725.456(b)).
(d) Medical information disclosed under this section must not be considered in adjudicating any claim unless a party designates the information as evidence in the claim.
(e) At the request of any party or on his or her own motion, an adjudication officer may impose sanctions on any party or his or her representative who fails to timely disclose medical information in compliance with this section.
(1) Sanctions must be appropriate to the circumstances and may only be imposed after giving the party an opportunity to demonstrate good cause why
disclosure was not made and sanctions are not warranted. In determining an appropriate sanction, the adjudication officer must consider—
(i) Whether the sanction should be mitigated because the party was not represented by an attorney when the information should have been disclosed; and
(ii) Whether the party should not be sanctioned because the failure to disclose was attributable solely to the party's attorney.
(2) Sanctions may include, but are not limited to—
(i) Drawing an adverse inference against the non-disclosing party on the facts relevant to the disclosure;
(ii) Limiting the non-disclosing party's claims, defenses or right to introduce evidence;
(iii) Dismissing the claim proceeding if the non-disclosing party is the claimant and no payments prior to final adjudication have been made to the claimant unless the Director agrees to the dismissal in writing (
see
§ 725.465(d));
(iv) Rendering a default decision against the non-disclosing party;
(v) Disqualifying the non-disclosing party's attorney from further participation in the claim proceedings; and
(vi) Relieving a claimant who files a subsequent claim from the impact of § 725.309(c)(6) if the non-disclosed evidence predates the denial of the prior claim and the non-disclosing party is the operator.
(3) Sanctions must not include—
(i) Fines or
(ii) Imprisonment.
(4) Sanctions imposed by a district director are subject to review by an administrative law judge in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(f) This rule applies to—
(1) All claims filed after May 26, 2016;
(2) Pending claims not yet adjudicated by an administrative law judge, except that medical information received prior to May 26, 2016 and not previously disclosed must be provided to the other parties within 60 days of May 26, 2016; and
(3) Pending claims already adjudicated by an administrative law judge where—
(i) The administrative law judge reopens the record for receipt of additional evidence in response to a timely reconsideration motion (
see
§ 725.479(b)) or after remand by the Benefits Review Board or a reviewing court; or
(ii) A party requests modification of the award or denial of benefits (
see
§ 725.310(a)).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection contained in this section and assigned control number 1240-0054 with an expiration date of May 31, 2019.)
[81 FR 24480, Apr. 26, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 31854, May 20, 2016]
§ 725.414
Development of evidence.
(a)
Medical evidence.
(1) For purposes of this section, a medical report is a physician's written assessment of the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition. A medical report may be prepared by a physician who examined the miner and/or reviewed the available admissible evidence. Supplemental medical reports prepared by the same physician must be considered part of the physician's original medical report. A physician's written assessment of a single objective test, such as a chest X-ray or a pulmonary function test, is not a medical report for purposes of this section.
(2)(i) The claimant is entitled to submit, in support of his affirmative case, no more than two chest X-ray interpretations, the results of no more than two pulmonary function tests, the results of no more than two arterial blood gas studies, no more than one report of an autopsy, no more than one report of each biopsy, and no more than two medical reports. Any chest X-ray interpretations, pulmonary function test results, blood gas studies, autopsy report, biopsy report, and physicians' opinions that appear in a medical report must each be admissible under this paragraph or paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
