We will charge review fees to requesters who make commercial use requests. We will assess review fees in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review we conduct to determine if an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. We will not charge for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if a particular exemption is deemed no longer to apply, any costs associated with re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. We will charge review fees at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(d)
Other charges
—(1)
Special services.
We will charge you the direct cost of providing any special services you request, such as sending records by express mail, certifying that records are true copies, or providing multiple copies of the same document.
(2)
Interest.
We may assess interest charges on any unpaid fees starting on the 31st day following the day on which we sent the bill to you at the rate prescribed in Interest and Penalty on Claims, 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(e)
Aggregating requests.
We may aggregate separate FOIA requests for the purpose of assessing fees when we reasonably believe that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert, is dividing a request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding or minimizing fees. For example, we may aggregate multiple requests for similar information filed within a short period of time.
(f)
If we anticipate fees will exceed $25.
Unless you have indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as anticipated, we will notify you if we estimate that charges will exceed $25 including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication and whether applicable entitlements to duplication and search at no charge have been provided. We will advise you if we can readily estimate only a portion of the fee.
(1) We will not process your request until you either commit in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designate some amount of fees you are willing to pay. If you are a noncommercial use requester and we have not yet provided your statutory entitlements (
i.e.,
two hours of search time and 100 free pages), you can tell us to stop when we exhaust the statutory entitlements. We will start the twenty-day response clock when we receive your written reply.
(2) If you agree to pay some designated amount of fees, but we estimate that the total fee will exceed that amount, we will toll processing when we notify you of the estimated fees in excess of the amount you had indicated a willingness to pay. When we receive your written commitment to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designate an additional amount of fees you are willing to pay, we will restart the processing clock.
(3) If you decide to reformulate your request to reduce costs, you can contact USTR's FOIA Public Liaison at
FOIA@ustr.eop.gov
for assistance.
(4) We will close your request if you do not respond in writing within thirty calendar days after the date we notify you of the fee estimate.
(g)
Advance payments.
(1) If we determine or estimate that the total fee will exceed $250, we may require you to make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before we begin to process your request.
(2) If you previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any Federal agency within thirty calendar days of the billing date, we may require proof that you paid the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and that you make an advance payment to us of the full amount of any anticipated fee before we begin to process a new request or continue to process a pending request or any pending appeal. If we have a reasonable basis to believe that you have misrepresented your identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, we may require you to provide proof of identity.
(3) If we require advance payment, we will not consider your request received
and will not do any additional work until we receive the required payment. We will close your request if you do not pay the advance payment within thirty calendar days after the date of our fee determination.
(4) Before we provide records in response to your request, we may collect payments you owe for work we already have completed.
(h)
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) You can seek a fee waiver or reduction by explaining in writing how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in your commercial interest. In determining whether to waive or reduce a fee we will consider whether disclosure of the requested information would:
(i) Shed light on the operations or activities of the government. The subject of the request must specifically concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.
(ii) Likely contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding. The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience interested in the subject. We will consider your expertise in the subject area as well as your ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public.
(iii) Primarily advance your commercial interests. For example, we ordinarily presume that the public's interest is greater than the requester's commercial interest when we receive a request from a representative of the news media. We will not presume that disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return primarily serves the public interest.
(2) We will grant a partial waiver when only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements in this section.
(3) You should include your fee waiver or reduction request when you first submit your FOIA request to us. You can submit a fee waiver or reduction request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. If you already committed to pay fees and subsequently request a waiver of those fees that we deny, you must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
[81 FR 89846, Dec. 13, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 18986, Apr. 25, 2017]

# Subpart C—Privacy Act Policies and Procedures

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a; 19 U.S.C. 2171(e)(3).

# Source:
82 FR 18986, Apr. 25, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2004.20
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Access
means making a record available to a subject individual.
Amendment
means any correction, addition to or deletion of information in a record.
Individual
means a natural person who either is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
Maintain
means to keep or hold and preserve in an existing state, and includes the terms collect, use, disseminate and control.
Privacy Act Office
means the USTR officials who are authorized to respond to requests and to process requests for amendment of records USTR maintains under the Privacy Act.
Record
means any item, collection or grouping of information about an individual that USTR maintains within a system of records and contains the individual's name or the identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual,
such as a finger or voice print or photograph.
System of records
means a group of records USTR maintains or controls from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. USTR publishes notices in the
Federal Register
announcing the creation, deletion or amendment of its systems of records. You can find a description of our systems of records on the USTR Web site:
www.ustr.gov
.
§ 2004.21
Purpose and scope.
(a) This subpart implements the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, a Federal law that requires Federal agencies to protect private information about individuals that the agencies collect or maintain. It establishes USTR's rules for access to records in systems of records we maintain that are retrieved by an individual's name or another personal identifier. It describes the procedures by which individuals may request access to records, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of disclosures of those records by USTR. Whenever it is appropriate to do so, USTR automatically processes a Privacy Act request for access to records under both the Privacy Act and the FOIA, following the rules contained in this subpart and subpart B of part 2004. USTR processes a request under both the Privacy Act and the FOIA so you will receive the maximum amount of information available to you by law.
(b) This subpart does not entitle you to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which you are not entitled under the Privacy Act. It also does not, and may not be relied upon to create any substantive or procedural right or benefit enforceable against USTR.
§ 2004.22
How do I make a Privacy Act request?
(a)
In general
. You can make a Privacy Act request on your own behalf for records or information about you. You also can make a request on behalf of another individual as the parent or guardian of a minor, or as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent. You may request access to another individual's record or information if you have that individual's written consent, unless other conditions of disclosure apply.
(b)
How do I make a request?
—(1)
Where do I send my written request?
To make a request for access to a record, you should write directly to our Privacy Act Office. Heightened security delays mail delivery. To avoid mail delivery delays, we strongly suggest that you email your request to
PRIVACY@ustr.eop.gov
. Our mailing address is: Privacy Act Office, Office of the US Trade Representative, Anacostia Naval Annex, Building 410/Door 123, 250 Murray Lane SW., Washington, DC 20509. To make sure that the Privacy Act Office receives your request without delay, you should include the notation `Privacy Act Request' in the subject line of your email or on the front of your envelope and also at the beginning of your request.
(2)
Security concerns
. To protect our computer systems, we will not open attachments to emailed requests—you must include your request within the body of the email. We will not process email attachments.
(c)
What should my request include?
You must describe the record that you seek in enough detail to enable the Privacy Act Office to locate the system of records containing the record with a reasonable amount of effort. Include specific information about each record sought, such as the time period in which you believe it was compiled, the name or identifying number of each system of records in which you believe it is kept, and the date, title or name, author, recipient, or subject matter of the record. As a general rule, the more specific you are about the record that you seek, the more likely we will be able to locate it in response to your request.
(d)
How do I request amendment or correction of a record?
If you are requesting an amendment or correction of a USTR record, you must identify each particular record in question and the system of records in which the record is located, describe the amendment or correction that you seek, and state why you believe that the record is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete. You may submit any documentation
that you think would be helpful, including an annotated copy of the record.
(e)
How do I request an accounting of record disclosures?
If you are requesting an accounting of disclosures made by USTR to another person, organization or Federal agency, you must identify each particular record in question. An accounting generally includes the date, nature and purpose of each disclosure, as well as the name and address of the person, organization, or Federal agency to which the disclosure was made.
(f)
Verification of identity
. When making a Privacy Act request, you must verify your identity in accordance with these procedures to protect your privacy or the privacy of the individual on whose behalf you are acting. If you make a Privacy Act request and you do not follow these identity verification procedures, USTR cannot process your request.
(1)
How do I verify my own identity?
You must state your full name, current address, and date and place of birth. In order to help identify and locate the records, you also may, at your option, include your Social Security number. To verify your own identity, you must provide an unsworn declaration under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury. To fulfill this requirement, you must include the following statement just before the signature on your request:
I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on [date].
(2)
How do I verify parentage or guardianship?
If you make a request as the parent or guardian of a minor, or as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access records or information about that individual, you must establish:
(i) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record, by stating the individual's name, current address and date and place of birth, and, at your option, the Social Security number of the individual;
(ii) Your own identity, as required in paragraph (f)(1) of this section;
(iii) That you are the parent or guardian of the individual, which you may prove by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing your parentage or a court order establishing your guardianship; and
(iv) That you are acting on behalf of the individual in making the request.
§ 2004.23
How will USTR respond to my Privacy Act request?
(a)
When will we respond to your request?
We will search to determine if the requested records exist in a system of records USTR owns or controls. The Privacy Act Office will respond to you in writing within twenty days after we receive your request, if it meets the requirements of this subpart. We may extend the response time in unusual circumstances, such as the need to consult with another agency about a record or to retrieve a record shipped offsite for storage.
(b)
What will our response include?
Our written response will include our determination whether to grant or deny your request in whole or in part, a brief explanation of the reasons for the determination, and the amount of the fee charged, if any, under § 2004.25. If you requested access to records, we will make the records, if any, available to you. If you requested amendment or correction of a record, the response will describe any amendments or corrections made and advise you of your right to obtain a copy of the amended or corrected record.
(c)
Adverse determinations
—(1)
What is an adverse determination?
An adverse determination is a response to a Privacy Act request that:
(i) Withholds any requested record in whole or in part;
(ii) Denies a request to amend or correct a record in whole or in part;
(iii) Declines to provide an accounting of disclosures;
(iv) Advises that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located;
(v) Finds that what you requested is not a record subject to the Privacy Act; or
(vi) Advises on any disputed fee matter.
(2)
Responses that include an adverse determination
. If the Privacy Act Office makes an adverse determination with respect to your request, our written response will identify the person responsible for the adverse determination,
that the adverse determination is not a final agency action, and that you may appeal the adverse determination under § 2004.24.
§ 2004.24
What can I do if I am dissatisfied with USTR's response to my Privacy Act request?
(a)
What can I appeal?
You can appeal any adverse determination in writing to our Privacy Act Appeals Committee within thirty calendar days after the date of our response. We provide a list of adverse determinations in § 2004.23(c).
(b)
How do I make an appeal?
—(1)
What should I include?
You may appeal by submitting a written statement giving the reasons why you believe the Committee should overturn the adverse determination. Your written appeal may include as much or as little related information as you wish to provide, as long as it clearly identifies the determination (including the request number, if known) that you are appealing.
(2)
Where do I send my appeal?
You should mark both your letter and the envelope, or the subject of your email, “Privacy Act Appeal”. To avoid mail delivery delays caused by heightened security, we strongly suggest that you email any appeal to
PRIVACY@ustr.eop.gov
. Our mailing address is: Privacy Office, Office of the US Trade Representative, Anacostia Naval Annex, Building 410/Door 123, 250 Murray Lane SW., Washington, DC 20509.
(c)
Who will decide your appeal?
(1) The Privacy Act Appeals Committee or designee will act on all appeals under this section.
(2) We ordinarily will not adjudicate an appeal if the request becomes a matter of litigation.
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the Privacy Act Appeals Committee must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(d)
When will we respond to your appeal?
The Privacy Act Appeals Committee will notify you of its appeal decision in writing within thirty days from the date it receives an appeal that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. We may extend the response time in unusual circumstances, such as the need to consult with another agency about a record or to retrieve a record shipped offsite for storage.
(e)
What will our response include?
The written response will include the Committee's determination whether to grant or deny your appeal in whole or in part, a brief explanation of the reasons for the determination, and information about the Privacy Act provisions for court review of the determination.
(1)
Appeals concerning access to records
. If your appeal concerns a request for access to records and the appeal is granted in whole or in part, we will make the records, if any, available to you.
(2)
Appeals concerning amendments or corrections
. If your appeal concerns amendment or correction of a record, the response will describe any amendment or correction made and advise you of your right to obtain a copy of the amended or corrected record. We will notify all persons, organizations or Federal agencies to which we previously disclosed the record, if an accounting of that disclosure was made, that the record has been amended or corrected. Whenever the record is subsequently disclosed, the record will be disclosed as amended or corrected. If our response denies your request for an amendment or correction to a record, we will advise you of your right to file a statement of disagreement under paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Statements of disagreement
—(1)
What is a statement of disagreement?
A statement of disagreement is a concise written statement in which you clearly identify each part of any record that you dispute and explain your reason(s) for disagreeing with our denial in whole or in part of your appeal requesting amendment or correction.
(2)
How do I file a statement of disagreement?
We must receive your statement of disagreement within thirty calendar days of our denial in whole or in part of your appeal concerning amendment or correction of a record.
(3)
What will we do with your statement of disagreement?
We will place your statement of disagreement in the system(s) of records in which the disputed
record is maintained. We also may append a concise statement of our reason(s) for denying the request to amend or correct the record. Whenever the record is subsequently disclosed, the record will be disclosed along with your statement of disagreement and our explanation, if any.
(g)
When appeal is required
. Before seeking review by a court of an adverse determination or denial of a request, you generally first must submit a timely administrative appeal under this section.
§ 2004.25
What does it cost to get records under the Privacy Act?
(a)
Your request is an agreement to pay fees
. We consider your Privacy Act request as your agreement to pay all applicable fees unless you specify a limit on the amount of fees you agree to pay. We will not exceed the specified limit without your written agreement.
(b)
How do we calculate fees?
We will charge a fee for duplication of a record under the Privacy Act in the same way we charge for duplication of records under the FOIA in § 2004.9. There are no fees to search for or review records requested under the Privacy Act.
§ 2004.26
Are there any exemptions from the Privacy Act?
(a)
What is a Privacy Act exemption?
The Privacy Act authorizes USTR to exempt records or information in a system of records from some of the Privacy Act requirements, if we determine that the exemption is necessary. With the exception of certain law enforcement records, we will not provide you with an accounting of disclosures or make available to you records that are exempt.
(b)
How do I know if the records or information I want are exempt?
Each USTR system of records notice will advise you if we have determined that records or information in records are exempt from Privacy Act requirements. If we have claimed an exemption for a system of records, the system of records notice will identify the exemption and the provisions of the Privacy Act from which the system is exempt.
§ 2004.27
How are records secured?
(a)
Controls
. USTR must establish administrative and physical controls to prevent unauthorized access to its systems of records, unauthorized or inadvertent disclosure of records, and physical damage to or destruction of records. The stringency of these controls corresponds to the sensitivity of the records that the controls protect. At a minimum, the administrative and physical controls must ensure that:
(1) Records are protected from public view;
(2) The area in which records are kept is supervised during business hours to prevent unauthorized persons from having access to them;
(3) Records are inaccessible to unauthorized persons outside of business hours; and
(4) Records are not disclosed to unauthorized persons or under unauthorized circumstances in either oral or written form.
(b)
Limited access
. Access to records is restricted only to individuals who require access in order to perform their official duties.
§ 2004.28
Use and collection of Social Security numbers.
We will collect Social Security numbers only when it is necessary and we are authorized to do so. At least annually, the Privacy Act Office will inform employees who are authorized to collect information that:
(a) Individuals may not be denied any right, benefit or privilege as a result of refusing to provide their Social Security numbers, unless the collection is authorized either by a statute or by a regulation issued prior to 1975; and
(b) They must inform individuals who are asked to provide their Social Security numbers:
(1) If providing a Social Security number is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) If any statutory or regulatory authority authorizes collection of a Social Security number; and
(3) The uses that will be made of the Social Security number.
§ 2004.29
Employee responsibilities under the Privacy Act.
At least annually, the Privacy Act Office will inform employees about the
provisions of the Privacy Act, including the Act's civil liability and criminal penalty provisions. Unless otherwise permitted by law, a USTR employee must:
(a) Collect from individuals only information that is relevant and necessary to discharge USTR's responsibilities.
(b) Collect information about an individual directly from that individual whenever practicable.
(c) Inform each individual from whom information is collected of:
(1) The legal authority to collect the information and whether providing it is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) The principal purpose for which USTR intends to use the information;
(3) The routine uses,
i.e.,
disclosures of records and information contained in a system of records without the consent of the subject of the record, USTR may make; and
(4) The effects on the individual, if any, of not providing the information.
(d) Ensure that the employee's office does not maintain a system of records without public notice and notify appropriate officials of the existence or development of any system of records that is not the subject of a current or planned public notice.
(e) Maintain all records that are used in making any determination about an individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness as is reasonably necessary to ensure fairness to the individual in the determination.
(f) Except for disclosures made to an agency or under the FOIA, make reasonable efforts, prior to disseminating any record about an individual, to ensure that the record is accurate, relevant, timely and complete.
(g) When required by the Privacy Act, maintain an accounting in the specified form of all disclosures of records by USTR to persons, organizations or agencies.
(h) Maintain and use records with care to prevent the unauthorized or inadvertent disclosure of a record to anyone.
(i) Notify the appropriate official of any record that contains information that the Privacy Act does not permit USTR to maintain.

# Subpart D—Production or Disclosure of USTR Records, Information and Employee Testimony in Legal Proceedings

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 2171(e)(3).
§ 2004.30
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Why are we issuing this rule?
This subpart establishes the procedures USTR will follow when any federal, state or local government court or other authority seeks production of USTR records or information, or testimony relating to an employee's official duties, in the context of a legal proceeding. Parties seeking records, information or testimony must comply with these requirements when submitting demands or requests to USTR.
(b)
What does this rule cover?
This subpart applies to demands or requests for records, information or testimony in legal proceedings in which USTR is not a named party. It does not apply to: Demands or requests for a USTR employee to testify as to facts or events that are unrelated to his or her official duties or to USTR's functions; FOIA or Privacy Act requests; or Congressional demands or requests for records or testimony.
(c)
Not a waiver.
(1) By providing these policies and procedures, USTR does not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States.
(2) The production of records, information or testimony pursuant to this subpart does not constitute a waiver by USTR of any privilege.
(d) This subpart provides guidance for USTR's internal operations and does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, that a party may rely upon in any legal proceeding against USTR or the United States.
§ 2004.31
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Demand
means a request, order, subpoena or other demand of a federal, state or local court or other authority for records, information or employee testimony in a legal proceeding in which USTR is not a named party.
Employee
means any current or former employee or officer of USTR,
including contractors, detailees, interns, and any individual who has served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to USTR, whether formal or informal.
General Counsel
means USTR's General Counsel or a person within USTR's Office of General Counsel to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this subpart.
Legal proceeding
means any matter, including all phases of litigation, before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding.
Records
or
information
means all documents and materials that are USTR agency records under the FOIA; any original or copy of a record or other property, no matter what media, contained in USTR files; and any other information or materials acquired by a USTR employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.
Request
means any informal request, by whatever method, in connection with a legal proceeding, seeking production of records, information or testimony that has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations and recorded interviews made by an individual about USTR information in connection with a legal proceeding.
§ 2004.32
Production prohibited unless approved.
(a)
Approval required.
An employee or any other person or entity in possession of records or information may not produce those records or information, or provide any testimony related to the records or information, in response to any demand or request without prior written approval from the General Counsel.
(b)
Penalties.
Any person or entity that fails to comply with this subpart may be subject to the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 641 and other applicable laws. A current employee also may be subject to administrative or disciplinary proceedings.
§ 2004.33
Factors the General Counsel may consider.
The General Counsel may grant an employee permission to testify regarding USTR matters and to produce records and information in response to a demand or request. Among the relevant factors the General Counsel may consider in making this determination are whether:
(a) The requested records, information or testimony are reasonable in scope, relevant and material to the pending action, and unavailable from other sources such as a non-USTR employee, or a USTR employee other than the employee named.
(b) Production of the records, information or testimony might result in USTR appearing to favor one litigant over another.
(c) USTR has an interest in the decision that may be rendered in the legal proceeding.
(d) Approving the demand or request would assist or hinder USTR in performing statutory duties or unduly burden USTR resources.
(e) The demand or request is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the rules of discovery or procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand or request arose.
(f) Production of the records, information or testimony might violate or be inconsistent with a statute, Executive Order, regulation or other legal authority.
(g) Disclosure, including release in camera, is appropriate or necessary under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege.
(h) Disclosure, except when in camera and necessary to assert a claim of privilege, would reveal information properly classified or other matters exempt from unrestricted disclosure.
(i) Disclosure would interfere with ongoing enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, reveal the identity of an intelligence source or confidential informant, or disclose trade secrets or similarly confidential commercial or financial information.
(j) Any other appropriate factor.
§ 2004.34
Submitting demands and requests.
(a)
Where do I send a demand or request?
To make a demand or request for records, information or testimony you should write directly to the General Counsel. Heightened security delays mail delivery. To avoid mail delivery delays, we strongly suggest that you email your demand or request to
TOUHY@ustr.eop.gov.
The mailing address is General Counsel, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Anacostia Naval Annex, Building 410/Door 123, 250 Murray Lane SW., Washington, DC 20509. To ensure delivery, you should mark the subject line of your email or your envelope and letter “Touhy Request.”
(b)
When should I submit it?
You should submit your demand or request at least 45 calendar days in advance of the date on which the records, information or testimony is needed.
(c)
What must be included?
(1) A demand or request must include an affidavit or, if that is not feasible, a clear and concise statement by the party or his or her counsel summarizing the legal and factual issues in the proceeding and explaining how the records, information or testimony will contribute substantially to the resolution of one or more specifically identified issues.
(2) A demand or request for testimony also must include an estimate of the amount of time that the employee will need to devote to the process of testifying (including anticipated travel time and anticipated duration of round trip travel), plus a showing that no document or the testimony of non-USTR persons, including retained experts, could suffice in lieu of the employee's testimony.
(d)
Limits.
The General Counsel will limit any authorization for testimony to the scope of the demand, and the scope of permissible production of records and information to that set forth in the written authorization.
(e)
Failure to meet requirements and exceptions.
USTR may oppose any demand or request that does not meet the requirements set forth in this subpart. The General Counsel may grant exceptions to the requirements in this subpart upon a showing of compelling need, to promote a significant interest of USTR or the United States, or for other good cause.
§ 2004.35
Processing demands and requests.
(a) The General Counsel will review a request or demand to produce or disclose records, information or testimony and determine whether, or under what conditions, to authorize the employee to testify regarding USTR matters or produce records and information. The General Counsel will notify the requester of the final determination, the reasons for the grant or denial of the demand or request, and any conditions on disclosure.
(b) When necessary, the General Counsel will coordinate with the U.S. Department of Justice to file appropriate motions, including motions to remove the matter to Federal court, to quash, or to obtain a protective order.
(c) The General Counsel will process demands and requests in the order in which they are received. Absent unusual circumstances and depending on the scope of the demand or request, the General Counsel will respond within 45 calendar days of the date USTR receives all information necessary to evaluate the demand or request.
§ 2004.36
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the testimony of USTR employees including, for example, limiting the scope of testimony or requiring the requester and other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the testimony transcript will be kept under seal or will only be used or made available in the particular legal proceeding for which testimony was requested. The General Counsel also may require a copy of the testimony transcript at the requester's expense.
(b) USTR may offer the employee's written declaration in lieu of testimony.
(c) If authorized to testify pursuant to this subpart, an employee may testify as to relevant facts within his or her personal knowledge, but, unless specifically authorized to do so by the
General Counsel, the employee must not:
(1) Disclose classified, confidential or privileged information; or
(2) For a current USTR employee, testify as an expert or opinion witness with regard to any matter arising out of the employee's official duties or USTR's mission or functions, unless testimony is provided on behalf of the United States. A former employee can provide expert or opinion testimony where the testimony involves only general expertise gained while employed as a USTR employee.
§ 2004.37
Restrictions that apply to released records and information.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of records and information, including requiring the parties to the legal proceeding to obtain a protective order or to execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and further disclosure. The terms of a protective order or confidentiality agreement must be acceptable to the General Counsel. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements already have been executed, USTR may condition the release of records and information on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b) If the General Counsel so determines, USTR may present original records for examination in response to a demand or request, but the records cannot be marked or altered or presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their status as original records. In lieu of original records, certified copies will be presented for evidentiary purposes. (
See
28 U.S.C. 1733).
§ 2004.38
In the event of an adverse ruling.
(a) Notwithstanding USTR's rejection of a demand or request for records, information or testimony, if a court or other competent authority orders a USTR employee to comply with the demand, the employee promptly must notify the General Counsel of the order, and must respectfully decline to comply, citing
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
(b) To seek reconsideration of USTR's rejection of a demand or request, or of any restrictions on receiving records, information or testimony, a requester must send a petition for reconsideration in accordance with § 2004.34(a) within 10 days of the date of the determination. The petition must contain a clear and concise statement of the basis for the reconsideration with supporting authorities. Determinations about petitions for reconsideration are within the discretion of the United States Trade Representative or his/her designee, and are final.
(c) Pursuant to section 704 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 704, a petition for reconsideration of a final determination under this section is a prerequisite to judicial review.
§ 2004.39
Fees.
(a) USTR may condition the production of records, information or an employee's appearance on advance payment of reasonable costs, which may include but are not limited to those associated with employee search time, copying, computer usage, and certifications.
(b) Witness fees will include fees, expenses and allowances prescribed by the rules applicable to the particular legal proceeding. If no fees are prescribed, USTR will base fees on the rule of the federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear. Such fees may include but are not limited to time for preparation, travel and attendance at the legal proceeding.
Pt. 2006

# PART 2006—PROCEDURES FOR FILING PETITIONS FOR ACTION UNDER SECTION 301 OF THE TRADE ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED
Sec.
2006.0
Submission of petitions requesting action under section 301.
2006.1
Information to be included in petition.
2006.2
Adequacy of the petition.
2006.3
Determinations regarding petitions.
2006.4
Requests for information made to Foreign Governments or Instrumentalities.
2006.5
Consultations with the Foreign Government.
2006.6
Formal dispute settlement.
2006.7
Public hearings.
2006.8
Submission of written briefs.
2006.9
Presentation of oral testimony at public hearings.
2006.10
Waiver of requirements.
2006.11
Consultations before making determinations.
2006.12
Determinations; time limits.
2006.13
Information open to public inspection.
2006.14
Information not available.
2006.15
Information exempt from public inspection.

# Authority:
Sec. 309(a)(1), Trade Act of 1974, as amended by sec. 1301 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-418, 102 Stat. 1176 (19 U.S.C. 2419).

# Source:
55 FR 20595, May 18, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2006.0
Submission of petitions requesting action under section 301.
(a) Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the “Trade Act”) requires the United States Trade Representative, subject to the specific direction, if any, of the President regarding such action, to take appropriate and feasible action in response to a foreign government's violation of a trade agreement, or any other international agreement the breach of which burdens or restricts United States commerce; and authorizes the Trade Representative, subject to the specific direction of the President, if any, to take action to obtain the elimination of acts, policies, and practices of foreign countries that are unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burden or restrict United States commerce. Section 302 of the Trade Act provides for petitions to be filed with the Trade Representative requesting that action be taken under section 301. Petitions filed under section 302 will be treated as specified in these regulations.
(b) Petitions may be submitted by an interested person. An interested person is deemed to be any party who has a significant interest affected by the act, policy, or practice complained of, for example: A producer, a commercial importer, or an exporter of an affected product or service; a United States person seeking to invest directly abroad, with implications for trade in goods or services; a person who relies on protection of intellectual property rights; a trade association, a certified union or recognized union or group of workers which is representative of an industry engaged in the manufacture, production or wholesale distribution in the United States of a product or service so affected; or any other private party representing a significant economic interest affected directly by the act, policy or practice complained of in the petition.
(c) The petitioner shall submit 20 copies of the petition in English, clearly typed, photocopied, or printed to: Chairman, Section 301 Committee, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506.
To ensure proper docketing, petitions may be filed only during the following hours on days when the Federal Government is open for business: between 9 a.m. and 12 noon and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
(d) Recorded information on section 302 petitions and investigations may be obtained by calling (202) 395-3871.
§ 2006.1
Information to be included in petition.
(a)
General information.
Petitions submitted pursuant to section 302 of the Trade Act shall clearly state on the first page that the petition requests that action be taken under section 301 of the Trade Act and shall contain allegations and information reasonably available to petitioner in support of the request, in the form specified below. Petitioners for whom such information is difficult or impossible to obtain shall provide as much information as possible, and assistance in filing their petition may be obtained through the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee. All petitions shall:
(1) Identify the petitioner and the person, firm or association, if any, which petitioner represents and describe briefly the economic interest of the petitioner which is directly affected by the failure of a foreign government or instrumentality to grant rights of the United States under a trade agreement, or which is otherwise directly affected economically by an act, policy, or practice which is actionable under section 301.
(2) Describe the rights of the United States being violated or denied under the trade agreement which petitioner
seeks to enforce or the other act, policy or practice which is the subject of the petition, and provide a reference to the particular part of section 301 related to the assertion in the petition.
(3) Include, wherever possible, copies of laws or regulations which are the subject of the petition. If this is not possible, the laws and regulations shall be identified with the greatest possible particularity, such as by citation.
(4) Identify the foreign country or instrumentality with whom the United States has an agreement under which petitioner is asserting rights claimed to be denied or whose acts, policies or practices are the subject of the petition.
(5) Identify the product, service, intellectual property right, or foreign direct investment matter for which the rights of the United States under the agreement claimed to be violated or denied are sought, or which is subject to the act, policy or practice of the foreign government or instrumentality named in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(6) Demonstrate that rights of the United States under a trade agreement are not being provided; or show the manner in which the act, policy or practice violates or is inconsistent with the provisions of a trade agreement or otherwise denies benefits accruing to the United States under a trade agreement, or is unjustifiable, unreasonable, or discriminatory and burdens or restricts United States commerce.
(7) Provide information concerning
(i) The degree to which U.S. commerce is burdened or restricted by the denial of rights under a trade agreement or by any other act, policy, or practice which is actionable under section 301,
(ii) The volume of trade in the goods or services involved, and
(iii) A description of the methodology used to calculate the burden or restriction on U.S. commerce.
(8) State whether petitioner has filed or is filing for other forms of relief under the Trade Act or any other provision of law. If the foreign government practice at issue is the subject of investigation under any other provision of law, the USTR may determine not to initiate an investigation; or if the same matter is subsequently subject to investigation under some other provision of law, USTR may terminate the section 302 investigation.
(b)
Additional specific information
—(1)
Subsidies.
If the petition includes an assertion that subsidy payments are having an adverse effect upon products or services of the United States in United States' markets or in other foreign markets, it shall include an analysis supporting any claim that the subsidy complained of is inconsistent with any trade agreement and describe the manner in which it burdens or restricts United States commerce.
(2)
Certain unreasonable practices.
If the petition asserts that an unreasonable practice defined in section 301(d) (3) denies fair and equitable opportunities for the establishment of an enterprise, or denies adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, or denies fair and equitable market opportunities, and burdens or restricts U.S. commerce, the petition should include, to the extent possible, identification of reciprocal opportunities in the United States that may exist for foreign nationals and firms; and
(i) If the petition asserts that fair and equitable opportunities for the establishment of an enterprise in a foreign country are denied, the petition shall
(A) Describe in detail the nature of any foreign direct investment proposed by the United States person, including estimates of trade in goods and services that could reasonably be expected to result from that investment,
(B) Indicate the manner in which the foreign government is denying the United States person a fair and equitable opportunity for the establishment of an enterprise,
(C) State whether action by the foreign government is in violation of or inconsistent with the international legal rights of the United States, citing the relevant provisions of any international agreements to which the United States and the foreign government are party, and
(D) To the extent possible, provide copies of all relevant foreign government statutes, regulations, directives,
public policy statements and correspondence with the United States person with respect to the proposed investment.
(ii) If the petition asserts that fair and equitable provision of adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights in a foreign country is denied, the petition shall
(A) Identify the intellectual property right for which protection has been sought,
(B) Indicate how persons who are not citizens or nationals of such foreign country are denied the opportunity to secure, exercise, and enforce rights relating to patents, process patents, registered trademarks, copyrights, or mask works, and
(C) Provide information on the relevant laws of the foreign country and an analysis of how the foreign country's law or policies conform to provisions of international law or international agreements to which both the United States and the foreign country are parties;
(iii) If the petition asserts that fair and equitable market opportunities are denied through the toleration by a foreign government of systematic private anticompetitive activities, the petition shall specifically
(A) Identify the private firms in the foreign country whose systematic anticompetitive activities have the effect of restricting access of United States goods to purchasing by those firms, inconsistent with commercial considerations,
(B) Describe in detail the private activities in question,
(C) State whether evidence of such activities has been provided (by petitioner or others) to the appropriate foreign government authorities, and describe the evidence indicating that the foreign government is aware of and supports, encourages, or tolerates such activities,
(D) Describe the duration and pervasiveness of such activities,
(E) Indicate whether such activities are inconsistent with the laws of the foreign country involved, making specific reference to any laws in question, and
(F) Indicate whether the foreign government's enforcement of (or failure to enforce) its relevant laws with respect to the private activities at issue is inconsistent with its enforcement practices in other situations;
(iv) If the petition asserts that an act, policy or practice, or combination thereof constitutes export targeting, the petition shall
(A) Identify the specific enterprise, industry, or group thereof which has been assisted in becoming more competitive in the export of the affected product or products,
(B) Describe the elements of the foreign government's plan or scheme consisting of coordinated actions to assist that enterprise, industry, or group, and
(C) Provide information on how and to what degree exports of the affected products by that enterprise, industry, or group have become more competitive as a result of the foreign government's plan or scheme; and
(v) If the petition asserts that an act, policy or practice, or combination thereof constitutes a persistent pattern of conduct that denies workers the right of association or the right to organize and bargain collectively, or permits forced or compulsory labor, or fails to provide a minimum age for employment of children or standards for minimum wages, hours, and occupational safety and health of workers, the petition shall
(A) Describe the rights or standards denied and provide information on the laws, policies and practices of the foreign country involved, if any, that relate to such rights or standards, and
(B) Indicate, to the extent such information is available to petitioner, whether the foreign country has taken, or is taking, actions that demonstrate a significant and tangible overall advancement in providing these rights or standards.
§ 2006.2
Adequacy of the petition.
If the petition filed pursuant to section 302 does not conform substantially to the requirements of §§ 2006.0 and 2006.1, the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee may decline to docket the petition as filed and, if requested by petitioner, return it to petitioner with
guidance on making the petition conform to the requirements, or may nevertheless determine that there is sufficient information on which to proceed to a determination whether to initiate an investigation.
§ 2006.3
Determinations regarding petitions.
Within 45 days after the day on which the petition is received, the Trade Representative shall determine, after receiving the advice of the Section 301 Committee, whether to initiate an investigation.
(a) If the Trade Representative determines not to initiate an investigation, the Section 301 Chairman shall notify the petitioner of the reasons and shall publish notice of the negative determination and a summary of the reasons therefor in the
Federal Register.
(b) If the Trade Representative determines to initiate an investigation regarding the petition, the Section 301 Chairman shall publish a summary of the petition in the
Federal Register,
and provide an opportunity for the presentation of views concerning the issues, including a public hearing if requested. A hearing may be requested by the petitioner or any interested person, including but not limited to a domestic firm or worker, a representative of consumer interests, a United States product exporter, or any industrial user of any goods or services that may be affected by actions taken under section 301 with respect to the act, policy or practice that is the subject of the petition.
§ 2006.4
Requests for information made to Foreign Governments or Instrumentalities.
If the U.S. Trade Representative receives a petition alleging violations of any international agreement, he will notify the foreign government or instrumentality of the allegations and may request information, in English, necessary to a determination under section 304(a)(1)(A) of the Trade Act. The Trade Representative may proceed on the basis of best information available if, within a reasonable time, no information is received in response to the request.
§ 2006.5
Consultations with the Foreign Government.
(a) If the Trade Representative determines to initiate an investigation on the basis of a petition he shall, on behalf of the United States, request consultations with the foreign country concerned regarding the issues involved in such an investigation. In preparing United States presentations for consultations and dispute settlement proceedings, the Trade Representative shall seek information and advice from the petitioner and any appropriate private sector representatives, including committees established pursuant to section 135 of the Trade Act.
(b) To ensure an adequate basis for consultation, the Trade Representative may, after consulting with the petitioner, delay requests for consultations for up to 90 days in order to verify or improve the petition. If consultations are delayed, the time limits referred to in § 2006.12 below shall be extended for the period of such delay.
§ 2006.6
Formal dispute settlement.
If the issues in a petition are covered by a trade agreement between the United States and the foreign government involved and a mutually acceptable resolution cannot be reached within the consultation period provided for in the agreement, or by 150 days after consultations begin, whichever is earlier, the Trade Representative shall institute the formal dispute settlement proceedings, if any, provided for in the trade agreement.
§ 2006.7
Public hearings.
(a) A public hearing for the purpose of receiving views on the issues raised in a petition shall be held by the Section 301 Committee:
(1) Within 30 days after the date that an investigation is initiated under section 302(a)(2) if a hearing is requested in the petition (or later, if agreed to by the petitioner); or
(2) Within a reasonable period if, after the investigation is initiated, a timely request is made by the petitioner, or any other interested person as defined in § 2006.3(b).
(b) Prior to making a recommendation on what action, if any, should be taken in response to issues raised in
the petition, the Section 301 Committee shall hold a public hearing upon the written request of any interested person. An interested person should submit an application to the Section 301 Chairman stating briefly the interest of the person requesting the hearing, the firm, person, or association he represents, and the position to be taken. A hearing so requested shall be held:
(1) Prior to determining what action should be taken under section 301, and after at least 30 days' notice; or
(2) Within 30 days after the determination of action is made, if the Trade Representative determines that expeditious action is required.
(c) After receipt of a request for a public hearing under sections 302(a)(4)(B) or 304(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Act, the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee will notify the applicant whether the request meets the requirements of this part, and if not, the reasons therefor. If the applicant has met the requirements of this part, he will receive at least 30 days' notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(d) Notice of public hearings to be held under sections 302(a)(4)(B) and 304(b)(1)(A) shall be published in the
Federal Register
by the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee.
§ 2006.8
Submission of written briefs.
(a) In order to participate in the presentation of views either at a public hearing or otherwise, an interested person must submit a written brief before the close of the period of submission announced in the public notice. The brief may be, but need not be, supplemented by the presentation of oral testimony in any public hearing scheduled in accordance with § 2006.7.
(b) The brief shall state clearly the position taken and shall describe with particularity the supporting rationale. It shall be submitted in 20 copies, which must be legibly typed, printed, or duplicated.
(c) In order to assure each interested person an opportunity to contest the information provided by other parties, the Section 301 Committee will entertain rebuttal briefs filed by any interested person within a time limit specified in the public notice. Rebuttal briefs should be strictly limited to demonstrating errors of fact or analysis not pointed out in the briefs or hearing and should be as concise as possible.
§ 2006.9
Presentation of oral testimony at public hearings.
(a) A request by an interested person to present oral testimony at a public hearing shall be submitted in writing before the close of the period of submission announced in the public notice and shall state briefly the interest of the applicant. Such request will be granted if a brief has been submitted in accordance with § 2006.8.
(b) After consideration of a request to present oral testimony at a public hearing, the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee will notify the applicant whether the request conforms to the requirements of § 2006.8(a) and, if it does not, will give the reasons. If the applicant has submitted a conforming request he shall be notified of the time and place for the hearing and for his oral testimony.
§ 2006.10
Waiver of requirements.
To the extent consistent with the requirements of the Trade Act, the requirements of §§ 2006.0 through 2006.3 and 2006.8 may be waived by the Trade Representative or the Chairman of the Section 301 Committee upon a showing of good cause and for reasons of equity and the public interest.
§ 2006.11
Consultations before making determinations.
Prior to making a determination on what action, if any, should be taken in regard to issues raised in the petition, the Trade Representative shall obtain advice from any appropriate private sector advisory representatives, including committees established pursuant to section 135 of the Trade Act, unless expeditious action is required, in which case he shall seek such advice after making the determination. The Trade Representative may also request the views of the International Trade Commission regarding the probable economic impact of the proposed action.
§ 2006.12
Determinations; time limits.
On the basis of the petition, investigation and consultations, and after receiving the advice of the Section 301 Committee, the Trade Representative shall determine whether U.S. rights under any trade agreement are being denied, or whether any other act, policy, or practice actionable under section 301 exists and, if so, what action (if any) should be taken under section 301. These determinations shall be made:
(a) In the case of an investigation involving a trade agreement (other than the agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures described in section 2(c)(5) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979), within 30 days after the dispute settlement procedure concludes, or 18 months after the initiation of the investigation, whichever is earlier.
(b) In all other cases, within 12 months after initiating an investigation.
§ 2006.13
Information open to public inspection.
(a) With the exception of information subject to § 2006.15, an interested person may, upon advance request, inspect at a public reading room in the Office of the United States Trade Representative:
(1) Any written petition, brief, or similar submission of information (other than that to which confidentiality applies) made in the course of a section 302 proceeding;
(2) Any stenographic record of a public hearing held pursuant to section 302 or 304.
(b) In addition, upon written request submitted in accordance with section 308 of the Trade Act, any person may obtain from the Section 301 Chairman the following, to the extent that such information is available to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative or other Federal agencies:
(1) Information on the nature and extent of a specific trade policy or practice of a foreign government or instrumentality with respect to particular goods, services, investment, or intellectual property rights;
(2) Information on United States rights under any trade agreement and the remedies which may be available under that agreement and under the laws of the United States; and
(3) Information on past and present domestic and international proceedings or actions with respect to the policy or practice concerned.
(c) An appropriate fee will be charged for duplication of documents requested under § 2006.13.
§ 2006.14
Information not available.
If the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative does not have, and cannot obtain from other Federal agencies, information requested in writing by any person, the Section 301 Chairman shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the request:
(a) Request the information from the foreign government involved; or
(b) Decline to request the information and inform the person in writing of the reasons for the refusal.
§ 2006.15
Information exempt from public inspection.
(a) The Chairman of the Section 301 Committee shall exempt from public inspection business information submitted in confidence if he determines that such information involves trade secrets or commercial and financial information the disclosure of which is not authorized by the person furnishing such information nor required by law.
(b) An interested person requesting that the Chairman exempt from public inspection confidential business information submitted in writing must certify in writing that such information is business confidential, the disclosure of such information would endanger trade secrets or profitability, and such information is not generally available. The information submitted must be clearly marked “BUSINESS CONFIDENTIAL” in a contrasting color ink at the top of each page on each copy, and shall be accompanied by a nonconfidential summary of the confidential information.
(c) The Section 301 Chairman may use such information, or make such information available (in his own discretion) to any employee of the Federal Government for use in any investigation under section 302, or make such
information available to any other person in a form which cannot be associated with, or otherwise identify, the person providing the information.
(d) The Section 301 Chairman may deny a request that he exempt from public inspection any particular business information if he determines that such information is not entitled to exemption under law. In the event of a denial, the interested person submitting the particular business information will be notified of the reasons for the denial and will be permitted to withdraw the submission.
Pt. 2007

# PART 2007—REGULATIONS OF THE U.S. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE PERTAINING TO ELIGIBILITY OF ARTICLES AND COUNTRIES FOR THE GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF PREFERENCE PROGRAM (GSP (15 CFR PART 2007))
Sec.
2007.0
Requests for reviews.
2007.1
Information required of interested parties in submitting requests for modifications in the list of eligible articles.
2007.2
Action following receipt of requests for modifications in the list of eligible articles and for reviews of the GSP status of eligible beneficiary countries with respect to designation criteria.
2007.3
Timetable for reviews.
2007.4
Publication regarding requests.
2007.5
Written briefs and oral testimony.
2007.6
Information open to public inspection.
2007.7
Information exempt from public inspection.
2007.8
Other reviews of article eligibilities.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2461-65, 88 Stat. 2066-2071, as amended by Title V of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98-573, 98 Stat. 3018-3024; E.O. 11846 of March 27, 1975 (40 FR 14291), E.O. 12188 of January 2, 1980 (45 FR 989).

# Source:
51 FR 5037, Feb. 11, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2007.0
Requests for reviews.
(a) An interested party may submit a request (1) that additional articles be designated as eligible for GSP duty-free treatment, provided that the article has not been accepted for review within the three preceding calendar years; or (2) that the duty-free treatment accorded to eligible articles under the GSP be withdrawn, suspended or limited; or (3) for a determination of whether a like or directly competitive product was produced in the United States on January 3, 1985 for the purposes of section 504(d)(1) (19 U.S. 2464(d)(1)); or (4) that the President exercise his waiver authority with respect to a specific article or articles pursuant to section 504(c)(3) (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)(3)); or (5) that product coverage be otherwise modified.
(b) During the annual reviews and general reviews conducted pursuant to the schedule set out in § 2007.3 any person may file a request to have the GSP status of any eligible beneficiary developing country reviewed with respect to any of the designation criteria listed in section 502(b) or 502(c) (19 U.S.C. 2642 (b) and (c)). Such requests must (1) specify the name of the person or the group requesting the review; (2) identify the beneficiary country that would be subject to the review; (3) indicate the specific section 502(b) or 502(c) criteria which the requestor believes warrants review; (4) provide a statement of reasons why the beneficiary country's status should be reviewed along with all available supporting information; (5) supply any other relevant information as requested by the GSP Subcommittee. If the subject matter of the request has been reviewed pursuant to a previous request, the request must include substantial new information warranting further consideration of the issue.
(c) An interested party or any other person may make submissions supporting, opposing or otherwise commenting on a request submitted pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d) For the purposes of the regulations set out under § 2007.0
et seq.,
an interested party is defined as a party who has significant economic interest in the subject matter of the request, or any other party representing a significant economic interest that would be materially affected by the action requested, such as a domestic producer of a like or directly competitive article, a commercial importer or retailer of an article which is eligible for the GSP or for which such eligibility is requested, or a foreign government.
(e) All requests and other submissions should be submitted in 20 copies, and should be addressed to the Chairman, GSP Subcommittee, Trade Policy Staff Committee, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506. Requests by foreign governments may be made in the form of diplomatic correspondence provided that such requests comply with the requirements of § 2007.1.
(f) The Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) may at any time, on its own motion, initiate any of the actions described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
§ 2007.1
Information required of interested parties in submitting requests for modifications in the last of eligible articles.
(a)
General Information Required.
A request submitted pursuant to this part, hereinafter also referred to as a petition, except requests submitted pursuant to § 2007.0(b), shall state clearly on the first page that it is a request for action with respect to the provision of duty-free treatment for an article or articles under the GSP, and must contain all information listed in this paragraph and in paragraphs (b) and (c). Petitions which do not contain the information required by this paragraph shall not be accepted for review except upon a showing that the petitioner made a good faith effort to obtain the information required. Petitions shall contain, in addition to any other information specifically requested, the following information:
(1) The name of the petitioner, the person, firm or association represented by the petitioner, and a brief description of the interest of the petitioner claiming to be affected by the operation of the GSP;
(2) An identification of the product or products of interest to the petitioner, including a detailed description of products and their uses and the identification of the pertinent item number of the Tariff Schedules of the United States (TSUS). Where the product or products of interest are included with other products in a basket category of the TSUS, provide a detailed description of the product or products of interest;
(3) A description of the action requested, together with a statement of the reasons therefor and any supporting information;
(4) A statement of whether to the best of the Petitioner's knowledge, the reasoning and information has been presented to the TPSC previously either by the petitioner or another party. If the Petitioner has knowledge the request has been made previously, it must include either new information which indicates changed circumstances or a rebuttal of the factors supporting the denial of the previous request. If it is a request for a product addition, the previous request must not have been formally accepted for review within the preceding three calendar year period; and
(5) A statement of the benefits anticipated by the petitioner if the request is granted, along with supporting facts or arguments.
(b)
Requests to withdraw, limit or suspend eligibility with respect to designated articles.
Petitions requesting withdrawal or limitation of duty-free treatment accorded under GSP to an eligible article or articles must include the following information with respect to the relevant United States industry for the most recent three year period:
(1) The names, number and locations of the firms producing a like or directly competitive product;
(2) Actual production figures;
(3) Production capacity and capacity utilization;
(4) Employment figures, including number, type, wage rate, location, and changes in any of these elements;
(5) Sales figures in terms of quantity, value and price;
(6) Quantity and value of exports, as well as principal export markets;
(7) Profitability of firm on firms producing the like product, if possible show profit data by product line;
(8) Analysis of cost including materials, labor and overhead;
(9) A discussion of the competitive situation of the domestic industry;
(10) Identification of competitors; analysis of the effect imports receiving duty-free treatment under the GSP have on competition and the business
of the interest on whose behalf the request is made;
(11) Any relevant information relating to the factors listed in section 501 and 502(c) of Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2501, 502(c)) such as identification of tariff and non-tariff barriers to sales in foreign markets;
(12) Any other relevant information including any additional information that may be requested by the GSP Subcommittee.
This information should be submitted with the request for each article that is the subject of the request, both for the party making the request, and to the extent possible, for the industry to which the request pertains.
(c)
Requests to designate new articles.
Information to be provided in petitions requesting the designation of new articles submitted by interested parties must include for the most recent three year period the following information for the beneficiary country on whose behalf the request is being made and, to the extent possible, other principal beneficiary country suppliers:
(1) Identification of the principal beneficiary country suppliers expected to benefit from proposed modification;
(2) Name and location of firms;
(3) Actual production figures (and estimated increase in GSP status is granted);
(4) Actual production and capacity utilization (and estimated increase if GSP status is granted);
(5) Employment figures, including numbers, type, wage rate, location and changes in any of these elements if GSP treatment is granted;
(6) Sales figures in terms of quantity, value and prices;
(7) Information on total exports including principal markets, the distribution of products, existing tariff preferences in such markets, total quantity, value and trends in exports;
(8) Information on exports to the United States in terms of quantity, value and price, as well as considerations which affect the competitiveness of these exports relative to exports to the United States by other beneficiary countries of a like or directly competitive product. Where possible, petitioners should provide information on the development of the industry in beneficiary countries and trends in their production and promotional activities;
(9) Analysis of cost including materials, labor and overhead;
(10) Profitability of firms producing the product;
(11) Information on unit prices and a statement of other considerations such as variations in quality or use that affect price competition;
(12) If the petition is submitted by a foreign government or a government controlled entity, it should include a statement of the manner in which the requested action would further the economic development of the country submitting the petition;
(13) If appropriate, an assessment of how the article would qualify under the GSP's 35 percent value-added requirements; and
(14) Any other relevant information, including any information that may be requested by the GSP Subcommittee.
Submissions made by persons in support of or opposition to a request made under this part should conform to the requirements for requests contained in § 2007.1(a) (3) and (4), and should supply such other relevant information as is available.
§ 2007.2
Action following receipt of requests for modifications in the list of eligible articles and for reviews of the GSP status of eligible beneficiary countries with respect to designation criteria.
(a)(1) If a request submitted pursuant to § 2007.0(a) does not conform to the requirements set forth above, or if it is clear from available information that the request does not warrant further consideration, the request shall not be accepted for review. Upon written request, requests which are not accepted for review will be returned together with a written statement of the reasons why the request was not accepted.
(2) If a request submitted pursuant to § 2007.0(b) does not conform to the requirements set forth above, or if the request does not provide sufficient information relevant to subsection 502(b) or 502(c) (19 U.S.C. 2642 (b) and (c)) to warrant review, or if it is clear from available information that the request does
not fall within the criteria of subsection 502(b) or 502(c), the request shall not be accepted for review. Upon written request, requests which are not accepted for review will be returned together with a written statement of the reasons why the request was not accepted.
(b) Requests which conform to the requirements set forth above or for which petitioners have demonstrated a good faith effort to obtain information in order to meet the requirements set forth above, and for which further consideration is deemed warranted, shall be accepted for review.
(c) The TPSC shall announce in the
Federal Register
those requests which will be considered for full examination in the annual review and the deadlines for submissions made pursuant to the review, including the deadlines for submission of comments on the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) report in instances in which USITC advice is requested.
(d) In conducting annual reviews, the TPSC shall hold public hearings in order to provide the opportunity for public testimony on petitions and requests filed pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 2007.0.
(e) As appropriate, the USTR on behalf of the President will request advice from the USITC.
(f) The GSP Subcommittee of the TPSC shall conduct the first level of interagency consideration under this part, and shall submit the results of its review to the TPSC.
(g) The TPSC shall review the work of the GSP Subcommittee and shall conduct, as necessary, further reviews of requests submitted and accepted under this part. Unless subject to additional review, the TPSC shall prepare recommendations for the President on any modifications to the GSP under this part. The Chairman of the TPSC shall report the results of the TPSC's review to the U.S. Trade Representative who may convene the Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG) or the Trade Policy Committee (TPC) for further review of recommendations and other decisions as necessary. The U.S. Trade Representative, after receiving the advice of the TPSC, TPRG or TPC, shall make recommendations to the President on any modifications to the GSP under this part, including recommendations that no modifications be made.
(h) In considering whether to recommend: (1) That additional articles be designated as eligible for the GSP; (2) that the duty-free treatment accorded to eligible articles under the GSP be withdrawn, suspended or limited; (3) that product coverage be otherwise modified; or (4) that changes be made with respect to the GSP status of eligible beneficiary countries, the GSP Subcommittee on behalf of the TPSC, TPRG, or TPC shall review the relevant information submitted in connection with or concerning a request under this part together with any other information which may be available relevant to the statutory prerequisites for Presidential action contained in Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2461-2465).
§ 2007.3
Timetable for reviews.
(a)
Annual review.
Beginning in calendar year 1986, reviews of pending requests shall be conducted at least once each year, according to the following schedule, unless otherwise specified by
Federal Register
notice:
(1) June 1, deadline for acceptance of petitions for review;
(2) July 15,
Federal Register
announcement of petitions accepted for review;
(3) September/October—public hearings and submission of written briefs and rebuttal materials;
(4) December/January—opportunity for public comment on USITC public reports;
(5) Results announced on April 1 will be implemented on July 1, the statutory effective date of modifications to the program. If the date specified is on or immediately follows a weekend or holiday, the effective date will be on the second working day following such weekend or holiday.
(b) Requests filed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of § 2007.0 which indicate the existence of unusual circumstances warranting an immediate review may be considered separately. Requests for such urgent consideration should contain a statement of reasons
indicating why an expedited review is warranted.
(c)
General Review.
Section 504(c)(2) of Title V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)(2)) requires that, not later than January 4, 1987 and periodically thereafter, the President conduct a general review of eligible articles based on the considerations in sections 501 and 502(c) of Title V. The initiation and scheduling of such reviews as well as the timetable for submission of comments and statements will be announced in the
Federal Register.
The first general review was initiated on February 14, 1985 and will be completed by January 3, 1987.
The initiation of the review and deadlines for submission of comments and statements were announced in the
Federal Register
on February 14, 1985 (50 FR 6294).
§ 2007.4
Publication regarding requests.
(a) Whenever a request is received which conforms to these regulations or which is accepted pursuant to § 2007.2 a statement of the fact that the request has been received, the subject matter of the request (including if appropriate, the TSUS item number or numbers and description of the article or articles covered by the request), and a request for public comment on the petitions received shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Upon the completion of a review and publication of any Presidential action modifying the GSP, a summary of the decisions made will be published in the
Federal Register
including:
(1) A list of actions taken in response to requests; and
(2) A list of requests which are pending.
(c) Whenever, following a review, there is to be no change in the status of an article with respect to the GSP in response to a request filed under § 2007.0(a), the party submitting a request with respect to such articles may request an explanation of factors considered.
(d) Whenever, following a review, there is to be no change in the status of a beneficiary country with respect to the GSP in response to a request filed under § 2007.0(b), the GSP Subcommittee will notify the party submitting the request in writing of the reasons why the requested action was not taken.
§ 2007.5
Written briefs and oral testimony.
Sections 2003.2 and 2003.4 of this chapter shall be applicable to the submission of any written briefs or requests to present oral testimony in connection with a review under this part. For the purposes of this section, the term “interested party” as used in §§ 2003.2 and 2003.4 shall be interpreted as including parties submitting petitions and requests pursuant to § 2007.0(a) or (b) as well as any other person wishing to file written briefs or present oral testimony.
§ 2007.6
Information open to public inspection.
With exception of information subject to § 2007.7 any person may, upon request inspect at the Office of the United States Trade Representative:
(a) Any written request, brief, or similar submission of information made pursuant to this part; and
(b) Any stenographic record of any public hearings which may be held pursuant to this part.
§ 2007.7
Information exempt from public inspection.
(a) Information submitted in confidence shall be exempt from public inspection if it is determined that the disclosure of such information is not required by law.
(b) A party requesting an exemption from public inspection for information submitted in writing shall clearly mark each page “Submitted in Confidence” at the top, and shall submit a nonconfidential summary of the confidential information. Such person shall also provide a written explanation of why the material should be so protected.
(c) A request for exemption of any particular information may be denied if it is determined that such information is not entitled to exemption under law. In the event of such a denial, the information will be returned to the person who submitted it, with a statement of the reasons for the denial.
§ 2007.8
Other reviews of article eligibilities.
(a) As soon after the beginning of each calendar year as relevant trade data for the preceding year are available, modifications of the GSP in accordance with section 504(c) of the Trade Act of 1974 as amended (19 U.S.C. 2464) will be considered.
(b)
General review.
Section 504(c)(2) of Title V of the Trade Act of 1974 as amended (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)(2)) requires that not later than January 4, 1987 and periodically thereafter, the President conduct a general review of eligible articles based on the considerations in sections 501 and 502 of Title V. The purpose of these reviews is to determine which articles from which beneficiary countries are “sufficiently competitive” to warrant a reduced competitive need limit. Those articles determined to be “sufficiently competitive” will be subject to a new lower competitive need limit set at 25 percent of the value of total U.S imports of the article, or $25 million (this figure will be adjusted annually in accordance with nominal changes in U.S. gross national product (GNP), using 1984 as the base year). All other articles will continue to be subject to the original competitive need limits of 50 percent or $25 million (this figure is adjusted annually using 1974 as the base year).
(1)
Scope of general reviews.
In addition to an examination the competitiveness of specific articles from particular beneficiary countries, the general review will also include consideration of requests for competitive need limit waivers pursuant to section 504(c)(3)(A) of Title V of the Trade Act of 1974 as amended (19 U.S.C. 2464(c)) and requests for a determination of no domestic production under section 504(d)(1) of Title V of the Trade Act of 1974 as amended (19 U.S.C. 2464(d)(1)).
(2)
Factors to be considered.
In determining whether a beneficiary country should be subjected to the lower competitive need limits with respect to a particular article, the President shall consider the following factors contained in sections 501 and 502(c) of Title V:
(i) The effect such action will have on furthering the economic development of developing countries through expansion of their exports;
(ii) The extent to which other major developed countries are undertaking a comparable effort to assist developing countries by granting generalized preferences with respect to imports of products of such countries;
(iii) The anticipated impact of such action on the United States producers of like or directly competitive products;
(iv) The extent of the beneficiary developing country's competitiveness with respect to eligible articles;
(v) The level of economic development of such country, including its per capita GNP, the living standard of its inhabitants and any other economic factors the President deems appropriate;
(vi) Whether or not the other major developed countries are extending generalized preferential tariff treatment to such country;
(vii) The extent to which such country has assured the United States it will provide equitable and reasonable access to the markets and basic commodity resources of such country and the extent to which such country has assured the United States that it will refrain from engaging in unreasonable export practices;
(viii) The extent to which such country is providing adequate and effective means under its laws for foreign nationals to secure, to exercise and to enforce exclusive rights in intellectual property, including patents, trademarks and copyrights;
(ix) The extent to which such country has taken action to—
(A) Reduce trade distorting investment practices and policies (including export performance requirements); and
(B) Reduce or eliminate barriers to trade in services; and
(x) Whether or not such country has taken or is taking steps to afford workers in that country (including any designated zone in that country) internationally recognized worker rights.
PART 2008 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2009

# PART 2009—PROCEDURES FOR REPRESENTATIONS UNDER SECTION 422 OF THE TRADE AGREEMENTS ACT OF 1979
Sec.
2009.0
Submission of representation.
2009.1
Information required in representation.
§ 2009.0
Submission of representation.
(a) Any—(1) Part to the Agreement; or
(2) Foreign country that is not a Party to the Agreement but is found by the United States Trade Representative, (“Trade Representative”) to extend rights and privileges to the United States that are substantially the same as those that would be so extended if that foreign country were a Party to the Agreement, may make a representation to the Trade Representative alleging that a standards-related activity engaged in within the United States violates the obligations of the United States under the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade.
(b) All representations under section 422 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (“section 422”) shall be addressed to the United States Trade Representative, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506. Alternatively, such a representation may be made by diplomatic correspondence and may be accepted by the Trade Representative.
(c) “The Agreement”, a “Party to the Agreement” and “standards-related activity” are defined as in section 451 of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2561).
(5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 2504(b), 2551-2554; E.O. 11846, 40 FR 14291; Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979, 44 FR 69173; E.O. 12188, 45 FR 989)
[47 FR 50207, Nov. 5, 1982]
§ 2009.1
Information required in representation.
(a) Each representation submitted under section 422 should state clearly on the first page that the representation is a request for action with respect to the obligations of the United States under the Agreement, and should contain the following information:
(1) The foreign country making the representation, the division of the foreign country's government representing that country's interest, the person(s) within the division who is (are) coordinating the foreign country's representation.
(2) A description of the standards-related activity at issues, including, whenever possible, copies of the standards-related activity's provisions.
(3) Identification of the foreign goods or services affected by the standards-related activity at issue.
(4) A statement of how the standards-related activity concerned is alleged to violate the obligations of the United States under the Agreement. This statement shoud indicate with particularity which such obligations are alleged to be violated.
(5) Indication as to whether the foreign country has officially petitioned, filed or complained for relief concerning the same subject matter as this representation to any international forum.
(b) Each representation submitted under section 422 of the Act must contain information sufficient to provide a reasonable indication that the standards-related activity concerned is having a significant trade effect, including (but not limited to) the volume of trade in the goods concerned.
(c) Representations should be submitted in 10 copies.
(5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 2504(b), 2551-2554; E.O. 11846, 40 FR 14291; Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979, 44 FR 69173; E.O. 12188, 45 FR 989)
[47 FR 50207, Nov. 5, 1982]
Pt. 2011

# PART 2011—ALLOCATION OF TARIFF-RATE QUOTA ON IMPORTED SUGARS, SYRUPS AND MOLASSES

# Subpart A—Certificates of Quota Eligibility
Sec.
2011.101
General.
2011.102
Definitions.
2011.103
Entry into the United States.
2011.104
Waiver.
2011.105
Form and applicability of certificate.
2011.106
Agreements with foreign countries.
2011.107
Issuance of certificates to foreign countries.
2011.108
Execution and issuance of certificates by the certifying authority.
2011.109
Suspension or revocation of individual certificates.
2011.110
Suspension of certificate system.

# Subpart B—Specialty Sugar
2011.201
General.
2011.202
Definitions.
2011.203
Issuance of specialty sugar certificates.
2011.204
Entry of specialty sugars.
2011.205
Application for a specialty sugar certificate.
2011.206
Suspension or revocation of individual certificates.
2011.207
Suspension of the certificate system.
2011.208
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 3601, Presidential Proclamation No. 6763, Additional U.S. note 5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

# Source:
55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Certificate of Quota Eligibility
§ 2011.101
General.
This subpart sets forth the terms and conditions under which certificates of quota eligibility will be issued to foreign countries that have been allocated a share of the U.S. sugar tariff-rate quota. Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, sugar imported from a foreign country may not be entered unless such sugar is accompanied by a certificate of quota eligibility. This subpart applies only to the ability to enter sugar at the in-quota tariff rates of the quota (subheadings 1701.11.10, 1701.12.10, 1701.91.10, 1701.99.10, 1702.90.10, and 2106.90.44 of the HTS). Nothing in this subpart shall affect the ability to enter articles at the over-quota tariff rate (subheadings 1701.11.50, 1701.12.50, 1701.91.30, 1701.99.50, 1702.90.20, 2106.90.46).
[61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.102
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned below.
(a)
Additional U.S. Note 5
means additional U.S. Note 5 to chapter 17 of the HTS, including any amendments thereto.
(b)
Appropriate customs official
means the district or area Director of the U.S. Customs Service, his or her designee, or any other customs officer of similar authority and responsibility for the customs district in which the port of entry is located.
(c)
Certificate of quota eligibility
or
certificate
means a certificate issued by the Secretary to a foreign country that, when duly executed and issued by the certifying authority of such foreign country, authorizes the entry into the United States of sugar produced in such country.
(d)
Certifying authority
means a person designated by the government of a foreign country who is authorized to execute and issue certificates of quota eligibility on behalf of such foreign country.
(e)
Enter
or
Entry
means to enter or withdraw from warehouse, or the entry or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption in the customs territory of the United States.
(f)
Foreign country
means, for any quota period, any foreign country or area with which an agreement or arrangement described in section 2011.106 is in effect for that quota period and to which the United States Trade Representative has allocated a particular quantity of the quota.
(g)
HTS
means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(h)
Licensing Authority
means the Team Leader, Import Quota Programs, Import Policies and Trade Analysis Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or his or her designee.
(i)
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, estate, trust, or other legal entity, and, wherever applicable, any unit, instrumentality, or agency of a government, domestic or foreign.
(j)
Quota
means the tariff-rate quota on imports of sugar provided in additional U.S. Note 5.
(k)
Quota period
means the period October 1 of a calendar year through September 30 of the following calendar year.
(l)
Raw value
has the meaning provided in additional U.S. Note 5.
(m)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the Secretary has delegated the authority or to whom the authority hereafter may be delegated to act in the Secretary's place.
(n)
Sugar
means sugars, syrups, and molasses described in subheadings 1701.11.10, 1701.12.10, 1701.91.10, 1701.99.10, 1702.90.10, and 2106.90.44 of the HTS, but does not include for any foreign country for any quota period specialty sugars as defined in subpart B of this part if a quantity of the quota for that quota period has been reserved for specialty sugars and an amount of that quota quantity has been allocated to that country.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.103
Entry into the United States.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in §§ 2011.104, 2011.109, and 2011.110, no sugar that is the product of a foreign country may be permitted entry unless at the time of entry the person entering such sugar presents to the appropriate customs official a valid and properly executed certificate of quota eligibility for such sugar.
(b)
Determinations of weight.
(1) For purposes of determining the amount of sugar which may be entered into the United States under a certificate of quota eligibility, sugar shall be entered on the basis of the actual weight of the sugar, as determined by the appropriate customs official. No adjustments in weight shall be made for the differences in polarization.
(2) The actual weight of the sugar entered into the United States may not exceed the weight specified on the certificate of quota eligibility by more than five percent. Such tolerance may be modified by the Secretary if the Secretary finds that such modification is appropriate to carry out the provisions of this subpart. Notice of any such modification shall be published by the Secretary in the
Federal Register.
(3) This paragraph (b) shall not affect the manner in which the amount of sugar (raw value) entered is determined fo purposes of administering the quota.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.104
Waiver.
(a)
General.
The Secretary may waive, with respect to individual shipments, any or all of the requirements of this subpart if he or she determines that a waiver will not impair the proper operation of the sugar quota system, that it will not have the effect of modifying the allocation of sugar made pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (b) of additional U.S. Note 5, and that such waiver is justified by unusual, unavoidable, or otherwise appropriate circumstances. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, loss or destruction of the certificate, unavoidable delays in transmittal of the certificate to the port of entry, and clerical errors in the execution or issuance of the certificate.
(b)
Request for waiver.
The request for a waiver must be made to the Secretary in writing. The request need not follow any specific format. However, the request should set forth in detail all pertinent information relating to the shipment in question and the basis upon which the waiver should be granted.
(c)
Issuance of waiver.
The Secretary shall notify, in writing, the applicant for the waiver and the Secretary of the Treasury of any waiver granted under the authority of this section. The Secretary may attach any terms, conditions or limitations to the waiver which he or she determines are appropriate.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.105
Form and applicability of certificate.
(a)
Contents.
Each certificate shall be numbered and identified by the foreign country. The certificate shall state that the quantity specified on the certificate is eligible to be entered into the United States during the applicable
quota period. The certificate shall provide spaces into which the following information must be inserted by the certifying authority of the foreign country: Quantity eligible to be entered; name of shipper; name of vessel; and port of loading. The following information, if known, may also be specified on the certificate by the certifying authority: name and address of consignee; expected date of departure; expected date of arrival in U.S.; and expected port(s) of arrival in the United States. The certificate shall also provide an area where the certifying authority of the foreign country shall affix a seal or other form of authentication and sign and date the certificate.
(b)
Other limitations.
The Secretary may attach such other terms, limitations, or conditions to individual certificates of quota eligibility as he or she determines are appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subpart, provided that such other terms, limitations, or conditions will not have the effect of modifying the allocation of sugar made pursaunt to the provisions of subdivision (b) of additional U.S. Note 5. Such terms, limitations, or conditions may include, but are not limited to, maximum quantities per certificate and a specified period of time during which the certificate shall be valid. In no event shall the maximum quantity per certificate exceed 10,000 short tons.
(c)
Applicability of the certificate.
The certificate of quota eligibility shall only be applicable to the shipment of sugar for which it was executed and issued by the certifying authority.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.106
Agreements with foreign countries.
Agreements or arrangements providing for the certificate system may be entered into by the United States Government with the governments of foreign countries. Such agreements or arrangements may provide for the designation of certifying authorities, the designation of seals or other forms of authentication, the transmittal and exchange of pertinent information, and other appropriate means or forms of cooperation.
§ 2011.107
Issuance of certificates to foreign countries.
(a)
Amount and timing.
The Secretary may issue certificates of quota eligibility to foreign countries for any quota period in such amounts and at such times as he or she determines are appropriate to enable the foreign country to fill its quota allocation for such quota period in a reasonable manner, taking into account traditional shipping patterns, harvesting period, U.S. import requirements, and other relevant factors.
(b)
Adjustments.
The Secretary may adjust the amount of certificates issued to a certifying authority for any quota period, provided that such adjustment will not have the effect of modifying the allocation of sugar made pursaunt to the provisions of subdivision (b) of additional U.S. Note 5 to reflect:
(1) The amount of sugar entered into warehouse during previous quota periods;
(2) Anticipated differences in actual weight and weight determined on a raw value basis; and
(3) Other relevant factors.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.108
Execution and issuance of certificates by the certifying authority.
(a)
Execution.
The certificate of quota eligibility shall be executed by the certifying authority by:
(1) Entering on the certificate the information required under § 2011.105 of this subpart; and
(2) Affixing a seal or other form of authentication to the certificate.
(b)
Issuance.
The executed certificate shall be issued by the certifying authority to the shipper or consignee specified on the certificate.
(c)
Modifications by the certifying authority.
The terms and conditions set forth in the certificate may not be modified, added to, or deleted by the certifying authority without the prior written approval of the Secretary.
(d) A certificate shall not be considered valid unless it is executed and issued in accordance with this section.
§ 2011.109
Suspension or revocation of individual certificates.
(a)
Suspension or revocation.
The Secretary may suspend, revoke, modify or add further limitations to any certificate if the Secretary determines that such action or actions is necessary to ensure the effective operation of the import quota system for sugar and that such suspension, revocation, modification or addition of further limitations will not have the effect of modifying the allocation of sugar made pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (b) of additional U.S. Note 5.
(b)
Reinstatement.
The Secretary may reinstate or reissue any certificate which was previously suspended, revoked, modified, or otherwise limited under the authority of this section.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26784, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.110
Suspension of certificate system.
(a)
Suspension.
The U.S. Trade Representative may suspend the provisions of this subpart whenever he or she determines that such action gives due consideration to the interests in the U.S. sugar market of domestic producers and materially affected contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Notice of such suspension and the effective date thereof shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Reinstatement.
The U.S. Trade Representative may at any time reinstate the operation of this subpart if he or she finds that the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section no longer apply. Notice of such reinstatement and the effective date thereof shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Transitional provisions.
In the case of any suspension or reinstatement of the certificate system established by this subpart, the Secretary, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative, may prescribe such additional guidelines, instructions, and limitations which shall be applied or implemented by appropriate customs officials in order to ensure an orderly transition.

# Subpart B—Specialty Sugar
§ 2011.201
General.
This subpart sets forth the terms and conditions under which certificates will be issued to U.S. importers for importing specialty sugars from specialty sugar source countries. Specialty sugars imported from specialty sugar source countries may not be entered unless accompanied by a specialty sugar certificate. This subpart applies only to the ability to enter specialty sugar at the in-quota tariff rates of the quota (subheadings 1701.11.10, 1701.12.10, 1701.91.10, 1701.99.10, 1702.90.10, and 2106.90.44 of the HTS). Nothing in this subpart shall affect the ability to enter articles at the over-quota tariff rate (subheadings 1701.11.50, 1701.12.50, 1701.91.30, 1701.99.50, 1702.90.20, 2106.90.46).
[61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.202
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned below.
(a)
Appropriate Customs official
means the District or Area Director of Customs, his or her designee, or any other Customs officer of similar authority and responsibility for the Customs district in which the port of entry is located.
(b)
Certificate
means a specialty sugar certificate issued by the Certifying Authority permitting the entry of specialty sugar.
(c)
Certifying Authority
means the Team Leader, Import Quota Programs, Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or his or her designee.
(d)
Date of entry
means the date on which the appropriate Customs entry form is properly executed and deposited, together with any estimated duties and special import fees and any related documents required by law or regulation to be filed with such form at the time of entry with the appropriate Customs Officer.
(e)
Importer
means any person in the United States importing specialty sugar into the United States.
(f)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, estate, trust, or other legal entity, and, wherever applicable, any unit, instrumentality, or agency, of a government, domestic or foreign.
(g)
Quota
means the tariff-rate quota on imports of sugar provided in additional U.S. Note 5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(h)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or any officer of employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the Secretary has delegated the authority or to whom the authority hereafter may be delegated to act in his place.
(i)
Specialty sugar
means brown slab sugar (also known as slab sugar candy), pearl sugar (also known as perl sugar, perle sugar, and nibs sugar), vanilla sugar, rock candy, demerara sugar, dragees for cooking and baking, fondant (a creamy blend of sugar and glucose), ti light sugar (99.2% sugar with the residual comprised of the artificial sweeteners aspartame and acesulfame K), caster sugar, golden syrup, ferdiana granella grossa, golden granulated sugar, muscovado, molasses sugar, sugar decorations, sugar cubes, and other sugars, as determined by the United States Trade Representative, that would be considered specialty sugar products within the normal commerce of the United States, all of which in addition:
(1) Are sugars, syrups, or molasses described in subheading 1701.11.10, 1701.12.10, 1701.91.10, 1701.99.10, 1702.90.10, or 2106.90.44 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States,
(2) Are the product of a specialty sugar source country, and
(j)
Specialty sugar source country
means any country or area to which the United States Trade Representative has allocated an amount of the quantity reserved for the importation of specialty sugars under additional U.S. Note 5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.203
Issuance of specialty sugar certificates.
(a) Specialty sugars imported into the United States from specialty sugar source countries may be entered only if such specialty sugars are accompanied by a certificate issued by the Certifying Authority.
(b) A certificate may be issued to an importer who complies with the provisions of this part. The certificate may contain such conditions, limitations or restrictions as the Certifying Authority, in his discretion, deems necessary. The Certifying Authority will issue a certificate if sufficient evidence has been provided to permit the Certifying Authority to make a reasonable determination that the sugar proposed to be imported under the certificate fits the definition of specialty sugars in this subpart.
(c) Subject to quota availability, an unlimited number of complying shipments may enter under a given certificate and a given certificate may cover more than one type of specialty sugar. Issuance of a certificate does not guarantee the entry of any specific shipment of specialty sugar, but only permits entry of such sugar if the amount allocated to the specialty sugar source country is not already filled.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.204
Entry of specialty sugars.
An importer or the importer's agent must present a certificate to the appropriate customs official at the date of entry of specialty sugars. Entry of specialty sugars shall be allowed only in conformity with the description of sugars and other conditions, if any, stated in the certificate.
[61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.205
Application for a specialty sugar certificate.
Applicants for certificates for the import of specialty sugars must apply in writing to the Certifying Authority. Such letter of application shall contain the following information:
(a) The name and address of the applicant;
(b) A statement of the anticipated quantity of specialty sugars to be imported, if known;
(c) The appropriate six digit HTS subheading number;
(d) A description of the specialty sugar the importer expects to import during the period of the certificate, including the manufacturer's or exporter's usual trade name or designation and use of such specialty sugar, and the importer's use of such specialty sugar;
(e) Sufficient evidence to permit the Certifying Authority to make a reasonable determination that such sugars are specialty sugars within the definition of specialty sugars in this subpart;
(f) The name of the anticipated consumer of the specialty sugars, if known at time of application; and
(g) The anticipated date of entry, if known at time of application.
The Certifying Authority may waive any provision of this section for good cause if her or she determines that such a waiver will not adversely affect the implementation of this subpart.
§ 2011.206
Suspension or revocation of individual certificates.
(a)
Suspension or revocation.
The Certifying Authority may suspend, revoke, modify or add limitations to any certificate which has been issued if he or she determines that such action or actions is necessary to ensure the effective operation of the quota for specialty sugars or determines that the importer has failed to comply with the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Reinstatement.
The Certifying Authority may reinstate or restore any certificate which was previously suspended, revoked, modified or otherwise limited under the authority of this section.
(c) The determination of the Certifying Authority under paragraph (a) that the importer has failed to comply with the requirements of this subpart may be appealed to the Director, Import Policy and Trade Analysis Division, Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS), U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, within 30 days from the date of suspension or revocation. The request for reconsideration shall be presented in writing and shall specifically state the reason or reasons why such determination should not stand. The Director shall provide such person with an opportunity for an informal hearing on such matter. A further appeal may be made to the Administrator, FAS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, within five working days of receipt of the notification of the Director's decision. The Certifying Authority may take action under paragraph (b) during the pendency of any appeal.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.207
Suspension of the certificate system.
(a)
Suspension.
The U.S. Trade Representative may suspend the provisions of this subpart whenever he or she determines that the quota is no longer in force or that this subpart is no longer necessary to implement the quota. Notice of such suspension and the effective date thereof shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Reinstatement.
The U.S. Trade Representative may at any time reinstate the operation of this subpart if he or she finds that the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section no longer apply. Notice of such reinstatement and the effective date thereof shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Transitional provisions.
In the case of any suspension or reinstatement of the certificate system established by this subpart, the Certifying Authority may prescribe such additional guidelines, instructions, and limitations which shall be applied or implemented by appropriate Customs officials in order to ensure an orderly transition.
[55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
§ 2011.208
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection requirements contained in the regulations in this subpart in accordance with 44 U.S.C. Chapter 25 and OMB control number 0551-0014 has been
assigned with corresponding clearance effective through April 30, 1997.
[61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996]
Pt. 2012

# PART 2012—IMPLEMENTATION OF TARIFF-RATE QUOTAS FOR BEEF
Sec.
2012.1
Purpose.
2012.2
Definitions.
2012.3
Export certificates.

# Authority:
Proclamation No. 6763; sec. 404, Pub. L. 103-465, 108 Stat. 4809.

# Source:
60 FR 15230, Mar. 23, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2012.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide for the implementation of the tariff-rate quota for beef established as a result of the Uruguay Round Agreements, approved by the Congress in section 101 of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (Pub. L. 103-465). In particular, this part provides for the administration of export certificates where a country that has an allocation of the in-quota quantity under the tariff-rate quota has chosen to use export certificates.
§ 2012.2
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned below.
(a)
Beef
means any article classified under any of the subheadings of the HTS specified in additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTS.
(b)
Allocated country
means a country to which an allocation of a particular quantity of beef has been assigned under additional U.S. note 3 to chapter 2 of the HTS.
(c)
Enter
means to enter, or withdraw from warehouse, for consumption.
(d)
HTS
means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(e)
Participating country
means any allocated country that USTR has determined is, and notified the U.S. Customs Service as being eligible to use export certificates.
(f)
USTR
means the United States Trade Representative or the designee of the United States Trade Representative.
§ 2012.3
Export certificates.
(a) Beef may only be entered as a product of a participating country if the importer makes a declaration to the Customs Service, in the form and manner determined by the Customs Service, that a valid export certificate is in effect with respect to the beef.
(b) To be valid, an export certificate shall:
(1) Be issued by or under the supervision of the government of the participating country;
(2) Specify the name of the exporter, the product description and quantity, and the calendar year for which the export certificate is in effect;
(3) Be distinct and uniquely identifiable; and
(4) Be used in the calendar year for which it is in effect.
Pt. 2014

# PART 2014—IMPLEMENTATION OF TARIFF-RATE QUOTA FOR IMPORTS OF LAMB MEAT
Sec.
2014.1
Purpose.
2014.2
Definitions.
2014.3
Export certificates.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2253(g); Proclamation 7208, 64 FR 37387, July 9, 1999; Proclamation 7214, 64 FR 42265, Aug. 4, 1999.

# Source:
65 FR 40049, June 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2014.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide for the implementation of the tariff-rate quota for imports of lamb meat established in Proclamation 7208 (64 FR 37387) (July 9, 1999) and modified in Proclamation 7214 (64 FR 42265) (Aug. 4, 1999). In particular, this part provides for the administration of export certificates where a country that has an allocation of the in-quota quantity under the tariff-rate quota has chosen to use export certificates.
§ 2014.2
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of this part, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned as follows:
(a)
Lamb meat
means fresh, chilled, or frozen lamb meat, provided for in subheadings 0204.10.00, 0204.22.20, 0204.23.20,
0204.30.00, 0204.42.20, and 0204.43.20 of the HTS.
(b)
In-quota lamb meat
means lamb meat that is entered under the in-quota rate of duty.
(c)
Participating country
means any country to which an allocation of a particular quantity of lamb meat has been assigned under Proclamation 7208 that USTR has determined is, and has notified to the United States Customs Service as being, eligible to use export certificates.
(d)
Enter or Entered
means to enter or withdraw from warehouse for consumption.
(e)
HTS
means the Harmonized Tariff schedule of the United States.
(f)
USTR
means the United States Trade Representative or the designee of the United States Trade Representative.
(g)
Quota Year
means the period between July 22, 1999 and July 21, 2000, inclusive, and such subsequent periods as set forth in Presidential Proclamations 7208 and 7214 during which lamb meat is exported.
§ 2014.3
Export certificates.
(a) In-quota lamb meat may only be entered as a product of a participating country if the United States importer makes a declaration to the United States Customs Service, in the form and manner determined by the United States Customs Service, that a valid export certificate is in effect with respect to that lamb meat product.
(b) To be valid, an export certificate shall:
(1) Be issued by or under the supervision of the government of the participating country;
(2) Specify the name of the exporter, the product description and quantity, and the quota year for which the export certificate is in effect;
(3) Be distinct and uniquely identifiable; and
(4) Be used for the quota year for which it is in effect.
Pt. 2015

# PART 2015—IMPLEMENTATION OF TARIFF-RATE QUOTAS FOR SUGAR-CONTAINING PRODUCTS
Sec.
2015.1
Purpose.
2015.2
Definitions.
2015.3
Export certificates.

# Authority:
Sec. 404, Pub. L. 103-465, 108 Stat. 4809; Proclamation 6763, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 147; Proclamation 7235, 64 FR 55611, October 13, 1999.

# Source:
64 FR 67153, Dec. 1, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2015.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide for the implementation of the tariff-rate quota for sugar-containing products established as a result of the Uruguay Round Agreements, approved by the Congress in section 101 of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (Pub. L. 103-465). In particular, this party provides for the administration of export certificates where a country that has an allocation of the in-quota quantity under a tariff-rate quota has chosen to use export certificates.
§ 2015.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
In-quota sugar-containing products
means any article classified under any of the subheadings of the HTS specified in additional U.S. note 8 to chapter 17 of the HTS that is entered under the in-quota rate of duty.
(b)
Allocated country
means a country to which an allocation of a particular quantity of sugar-containing products has been assigned.
(c)
Enter
or
Entered
means to enter, or withdraw from warehouse, for consumption.
(d)
HTS
means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(e)
Participating Country
means any allocated country that USTR has determined is, and has notified the U.S. Customs Service as being, eligible to use export certificates.
(f)
USTR
means the United States Trade Representative or the designee of the United States Trade Representative.
§ 2015.3
Export certificates.
(a) To claim the in-quota rate of duty on sugar-containing products of a participating country, the United States importer must make a declaration to the United States Customs Service, in
the form and manner determined by the United States Customs Service, that a valid export certificate is in effect with respect to those sugar-containing products.
(b) To be valid, an export certificate shall:
(1) Be issued by or under the supervision of the government of the participating country;
(2) Specify the name of the party to whom the certificate is issued, the product description and quantity, shipment date, and the quota year for which the export certificate is in effect;
(3) Have a distinct and uniquely identifiable number; and
(4) Be used in the quota year for which it is in effect.
Pt. 2016

# PART 2016—PROCEDURES TO PETITION FOR WITHDRAWAL OR SUSPENSION OF COUNTRY ELIGIBILITY OR DUTY-FREE TREATMENT UNDER THE ANDEAN TRADE PREFERENCE ACT (ATPA), AS AMENDED
Sec.
2016.0
Requests for reviews.
2016.1
Action following receipt of petitions.
2016.2
Timetable for reviews.
2016.3
Publication regarding requests.
2016.4
Information open to public inspection.
2016.5
Information exempt from public inspection.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 3201,
et seq.;
sec. 3103(d), Pub. L. 107-210; 116 Stat. 933; E.O. 13277, 67 FR 70303.

# Source:
68 FR 43924, July 25, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2016.0
Requests for reviews.
(a) Any person may submit a request (hereinafter “petition”) that the designation of a country as an Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) beneficiary country be withdrawn or suspended, or the application of preferential treatment under the ATPA to any article of any ATPA beneficiary country be withdrawn, suspended, or limited. Such petitions should: include the name of the person or the group requesting the review; identify the ATPA beneficiary country that would be subject to the review; if the petition is requesting that the preferential treatment of an article or articles be withdrawn, suspended, or limited, identify such article or articles with particularity and explain why such article or articles were selected; indicate the specific section 203(c) or (d) (19 U.S.C. 3202(c), (d)) eligibility criterion that the petitioner believes warrant(s) review; and include all available supporting information. The Andean Subcommittee of the Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) may request other information. If the subject matter of the petition was reviewed pursuant to a previous petition, the petitioner should consider providing the Andean Subcommittee with any new information related to the issue.
(b) Any person may submit a petition that the designation of a country as an Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication At (ATPDEA) beneficiary country be withdrawn or suspended, or the application of preferential treatment to any article of any ATPDEA beneficiary country under section 204(b)(1), (3), or (4) (19 U.S.C. 3202(b)(1), (3), (4)) be withdrawn, suspended, or limited. Such petitions should: Include the name of the person or the group requesting the review; identify the ATPDEA beneficiary country that would be subject to the review; if the petition is requesting that the preferential treatment of an article or articles be withdrawn, suspended, or limited, identify such article or articles with particularity and explain why such article or articles were selected; indicate the specific section 204(b)(6)(B) (19 U.S.C. 3203(b)(6)(B)) eligibility criterion or criteria that the petition believes warrant(s) review; and include all available supporting information. The Andean Subcommittee may request other information. If the subject matter of the petition was reviewed pursuant to a previous petition, the petitioner should consider providing the Andean Subcommittee with any new information related to the issue.
(c) All petitions and other submissions should be submitted in accordance with the schedule (
see
§ 2016.2) and requirements for submission that The
Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) will publish annually in the
Federal Register
in advance of each review. Foreign governments may make submission in the form of diplomatic correspondence and should observe the deadlines for each annual review published in the
Federal Register.
(d) The TPSC may at any time, on its own motion, initiate a review to determine whether: the designation of a country as an ATPA beneficiary country should be withdrawn or suspended; the application of preferential treatment under the ATPA to any article of any ATPA beneficiary country should be withdrawn, suspended, or limited; the designation of a country as an ATPDEA beneficiary country should be withdrawn or suspended; or the application of preferential treatment to any article of any ATPDEA beneficiary country under section 204(b)(1), (3), or (4) (19 U.S.C. 3202(b)(1), (3), or (4) should be withdrawn, suspended, or limited.
(e) Petitions requesting the action described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section that indicate the existence of exceptional circumstances warranting an immediate review may be considerd outside of the schedule for the annual review announced in the
Federal Register.
Requests for such urgent consideration should contain a statement of reasons indicating why an expedited review is warranted.
§ 2016.1
Action following receipt of petitions.
(a) USTR shall publish in the
Federal Register
a list of petitions filed in response to the announcement of the annual review, including the subject matter of the request and, where appropriate, the description of the article or articles covered by the request.
(b) Thereafter, the Andean Subcommittee shall conduct a preliminary review of the petitions, and shall submit the results of its preliminary review to the TPSC. The TPSC shall review the work of the Andean Subcommittee and shall conduct further review as necessary. The TPSC shall prepare recommendations for the President on any proposed action to modify the ATPA. The Chairman of the TPSC may, as appropriate, convene the Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG) to review the matter, and thereafter refer the matter to the USTR for Cabinet-level review as necessary.
(c) The USTR, after receiving the advice of the TPSC, TPRG, or Cabinet-level officials, shall make recommendations to the President on any proposed action to modify the application of the ATPA's benefits to countries or articles. The President (or if that function is delegated to the USTR, the USTR) shall announce in the
Federal Register
any such action he proposes to take. The USTR shall announce in the
Federal Register
notice of the results of the preliminary review, together with a schedule for receiving public input regarding such proposed action consistent with section 203(e) of the ATPA, as amended (19 U.S.C. 3202(e)).
(1) The schedule shall include the deadline and guidelines for any person to submit written comments supporting, opposing or otherwise commenting on any proposed action.
(2) The schedule shall also include the time and place of the public hearing, as well as the deadline and guidelines for submitting requests to present oral testimony.
(d) After receiving and considering public input, the Andean Subcommittee shall submit the results of the final review to the TPSC. The TPSC shall review the work of the Andean Subcommittee and shall conduct further review as necessary. The TPSC shall prepare recommendations for the President on any proposed action to modify the application of benefits under the ATPA to countries or articles. The Chairman of the TPSC may, as appropriate, convene the TPRG to review the matter, and thereafter refer the matter to the USTR for Cabinet-level review as necessary. The USTR, after receiving the advice of the TPSC, TPRG, or Cabinet-level officials, shall make recommendations to the President on any proposed action to modify the application of the ATPA's benefits to countries or articles, including recommendations that no action be taken. The USTR shall also forward to the President any documentation necessary to implement the recommended proposed action or actions to modify
the application of the ATPA's benefits to countries or articles.
(e) In considering whether to recommend any proposed action to modify the ATPA, the Andean Subcommittee, on behalf of the TPSC, TPRG, or Cabinet-level officials, shall review all relevant information submitted in connection with a petition or otherwise available.
§ 2016.2
Timetable for reviews.
Beginning in calendar year 2003, reviews of pending petitions shall be conducted at least once each year, according to the following schedule, unless otherwise specified by
Federal Register
notice:
(a) September 15: Deadline for submission of petitions for review;
(b) On or about December 1: Announcement published in the
Federal Register
of the results of preliminary review;
(c) Decemeber/January: Written comments submitted and a public hearing held on any proposed actions;
(d) February/March: Preparation of recommendations to the President, Presidential decision, and implementation of Presidential decision.
§ 2016.3
Publication regarding requests.
Following the Presidential decision and where required, the publication of a Presidential proclamation modifying the application of benefits under the ATPA to countries or articles in the
Federal Register,
USTR will publish a summary of the decisions made in the
Federal Register,
including:
(a) For petitions on which decisions were made, a description of the outcome of the review; and
(b) A list of petitions on which no decision was made, and thus which are pending further review.
§ 2016.4
Information open to public inspection.
With the exception of information subject to § 2016.5, any person may, on request, inspect in the USTR Reading Room:
(a) Any written petition, comments, or other submission of information made pursuant to this part; and
(b) Any stenographic record of any public hearings held pursuant to this part.
§ 2016.5
Information exempt from public inspection.
(a) Information submitted in confidence shall be exempt from public inspection if USTR determines that the disclosure of such information is not required by law.
(b) A person requesting an exemption from public inspection for information submitted in writing shall clearly mark each page “BUSINESS CONFIDENTIAL” at the top, and shall submit a non-confidential summary of the confidential information. Such person shall also provide a written explanation of why the material should be so protected.
(c) A request for exemption of any particular information may be denied if USTR determines that such information is not entitled to exemption under law. In the event of such a denial, the information will be returned to the person who submitted it, with a statement of the reasons for the denial.
Pt. 2017

# PART 2017—PETITION PROCESS TO REVIEW ELIGIBILITY OF COUNTRIES UNDER THE AFRICAN GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITY ACT (AGOA)
Sec.
2017.0
Definitions.
2017.1
Petition for review.
2017.2
Action following receipt of a petition.
2017.3
Publication regarding petitions.
2017.4
Public inspection.
2017.5
Expiration.

# Authority:
19 U.S.C. 2466a
et seq.;
Pub. L. 114-27, sec. 105(d)(3), 129 Stat. 366-367, June 29, 2015; E.O. 13720 of Feb. 26, 2016, 81 FR 11087, Mar. 2, 2016

# Source:
81 FR 14717, Mar. 18, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2017.0
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
AGOA
means the African Growth and Opportunity Act, as amended (Title I of the Trade and Development Act of 2000, Pub. L. 106-200) (19 U.S.C. 2466a
et seq.
).
TPC
means the Trade Policy Committee.
TPRG
means the Trade Policy Review Group.
TPSC
means the Trade Policy Staff Committee.
USTR
means the Office of the United States Trade Representative.
§ 2017.1
Petition for review.
(a) Any person may submit a petition to USTR in accordance with this section with respect to the compliance of any country listed in section 107 of the AGOA (19 U.S.C. 3706), with the eligibility requirements set forth in section 104 of the AGOA (19 U.S.C. 3703) and the eligibility criteria set forth in section 502 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2462).
(b) A petition must:
(1) Identify the sub-Saharan African country that would be subject to the review;
(2) Indicate the specific eligibility requirement or criterion that the petitioner believes warrants review; and
(3) Include all available supporting arguments and information to explain why review is warranted.
(c) A petition requesting an out-of-cycle review under section 111(d)(4) of the AGOA (19 U.S.C. 2466a(d)(4)) must contain a statement indicating the existence of exceptional circumstances warranting the out-of-cycle review.
(d) The TPSC may request additional information.
§ 2017.2
Action following receipt of a petition.
(a) USTR will consider a petition received in accordance with the schedule published in the
Federal Register
for the annual (normal cycle) AGOA review process under section 111 of the AGOA (19 U.S.C. 2466a) in conjunction with that annual review.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, USTR will consider a petition received at any time other than the time described in paragraph (a) of this section, in accordance with the schedule published in the
Federal Register
for the next annual (normal cycle) AGOA review process.
(c)(1) If a petition received at any time other than the time described in paragraph (a), requests an out-of-cycle review under section 111(d)(4) of the AGOA (19 U.S.C. 2466a(d)(4)), within 60 days:
(i) The AGOA Implementation Subcommittee will review the petition and report to the TPSC whether there are exceptional circumstances warranting an out-of-cycle review;
(ii) The TPSC will conduct further review as necessary;
(iii) The TPSC Chair will report the results of the TPSC review to the U.S. Trade Representative; and
(iv) The U.S. Trade Representative may convene the TPRG or the TPC for further review of the TPSC recommendations and other decisions.
(2) If the U.S. Trade Representative finds that there are exceptional circumstances warranting an out-of-cycle review, within 30 days of that determination USTR will announce a schedule for the review in the
Federal Register.
The schedule will include the deadline and guidelines for any party to submit written comments supporting, opposing or otherwise commenting on any proposed action.
(3) For any out-of-cycle review initiated under this paragraph (c), the AGOA Implementation Subcommittee will consider public input received by the applicable deadline and any other relevant information and report to the TPSC. The TPSC will conduct further review as necessary and prepare recommendations for the U.S. Trade Representative. The U.S. Trade Representative may convene the TPRG or the TPC for further review of recommendations and other decisions. The U.S. Trade Representative will make recommendations to the President, which may include a recommendation that no action be taken.
§ 2017.3
Publication regarding petitions.
USTR will publish in the
Federal Register
:
(a) A list of actions taken in response to a petition, such as the publication of a Presidential proclamation modifying the designation of a country or the application of duty-free treatment with respect to articles from a country pursuant to the AGOA; and
(b) A list of petitions upon which no decision was made, and thus which are pending further review.
§ 2017.4
Public inspection.
USTR will make publicly available at
www.regulations.gov:
(a) Any written request, brief or similar submission of information made pursuant to this part; and
(b) Any stenographic record of any public hearing that may be held pursuant to this part.
(c)(1) USTR will grant business confidential status and withhold from public disclosure the information submitted if the petitioner certifies that the information customarily would not be released to the public and clearly designates the information as confidential business information.
(2) To request business confidential status the petitioner must mark the submission “BUSINESS CONFIDENTIAL” at the top and bottom of the cover page and on each succeeding page, and the submission should indicate, via brackets, the specific information that is confidential.
(3) If the submission contains business confidential information, the petitioner also must submit a non-confidential version or summary, indicating where confidential information has been redacted, and a written explanation of why the material should be protected.
(4) The non-confidential version or summary will be made publicly available at
www.regulations.gov.
(5) A request for exemption of any particular information may be denied if it is determined that such information is not entitled to exemption under law. In the event of such a denial, the information will be returned to the person who submitted it, with a statement of the reasons for the denial.
§ 2017.5
Expiration.
The Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 extended the AGOA until September 30, 2025 (Pub. L. 114-27, sec. 103, 129 Stat. 364). Accordingly, this part will expire on that date unless extended by statute.
PARTS 2018-2099 [RESERVED]
Ch. XX, App. A

# Appendix A to Chapter XX—Administration of the Trade Agreements Program
Text of Executive Order No. 11846 of Mar. 27, 1975 (40 FR 14291).
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Trade Act of 1974, hereinafter referred to as the Act (Pub. L. 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978), the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1801), section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1351), and section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1.
The Trade Agreements Program.
The “trade agreements program” includes all activities consisting of, or related to, the negotiation or administration of international agreements which primarily concern trade and which are concluded pursuant to the authority vested in the President by the Constitution, section 350 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, or the Act.
Sec. 2.
The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations.
(a) The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, hereinafter referred to as the Special Representative, in addition to the functions conferred upon him by the Act, including section 141 thereof, and in addition to the functions and responsibilities set forth in this Order, shall be responsible for such other functions as the President may direct.
(b) The Special Representative, except where otherwise expressly provided by statute, Executive order, or instructions of the President, shall be the chief representative of the United States for each negotiation under the trade agreements program and shall participate in other negotiations which may have a direct and significant impact on trade.
(c) The Special Representative shall prepare, for the President's transmission to Congress, the annual report on the trade agreements program required by section 163(a) of the Act. At the request of the Special Representative, other agencies shall assist in the preparation of that report.
(d) The Special Representative, except where expressly otherwise provided or prohibited by statute, Executive order, or instructions of the President, shall be responsible for the proper administration of the trade agreements program, and may, as he deems necessary, assign to the head of any Executive agency or body the performance of his duties which are incidental to the administration of the trade agreements program.
(e) The Special Representative shall consult with the Trade Policy Committee in connection with the performance of his functions, including those established or delegated by this Order, and shall, as appropriate, consult with other Federal agencies
or bodies. With respect to the performance of his functions under Title IV of the Act, including those established or delegated by this Order, the Special Representative shall also consult with the East-West Foreign Trade Board.
(f) The Special Representative shall be responsible for the preparation and submission of any Proclamation which relates wholly or primarily to the trade agreements program. Any such Proclamation shall be subject to all the provisions of Executive Order 11030, as amended, except that such Proclamation need not be submitted to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(g) The Secretary of State shall advise the Special Representative, and the Committee, on the foreign policy implications of any action under the trade agreements program. The Special Representative shall invite appropriate departments to participate in trade negotiations of particular interest to such departments, and the Department of State shall participate in trade negotiations which have a direct and significant impact on foreign policy.
Sec. 3.
The Trade Policy Committee.
(a) As provided by section 242 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1872), as amended by section 602(b) of the Act, there is established the Trade Policy Committee hereinafter referred to as the Committee. The Committee shall be composed of:
(1) The Special Representative, who shall be Chairman.
(2) The Secretary of State.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(4) The Secretary of Defense.
(5) The Attorney General.
(6) The Secretary of the Interior.
(7) The Secretary of Agriculture.
(8) The Secretary of Commerce.
(9) The Secretary of Labor.
(10) The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs.
(11) The Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy. Each member of the Committee may designate an officer of his agency, whose status is not below that of an Assistant Secretary, to serve in his stead, when he is unable to attend any meetings of the Committee. The Chairman, as he deems appropriate, may invite representatives from other agencies to attend the meetings of the Committee.
(b) The Committee shall have the functions conferred by the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, upon the inter-agency organization referred to in section 242 thereof, as amended, the functions delegated to it by the provisions of this Order, and such other functions as the President may from time to time direct. Recommendations and advice of the Committee shall be submitted to the President by the Chairman.
(c) The recommendations made by the Committee under section 242(b)(1) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, with respect to basic policy issues arising in the administration of the trade agreements program, as approved or modified by the President, shall guide the administration of the trade agreements program. The Special Representative or any other officer who is chief representative of the United States in a negotiation in connection with the trade agreements program shall keep the Committee informed with respect to the status and conduct of negotiations and shall consult with the Committee regarding the basic policy issues arising in the course of negotiations.
(d) Before making recommendations to the President under section 242(b)(2) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, the Committee shall, through the Special Representative, request the advice of the Adjustment Assistance Coordinating Committee, established by section 281 of the Act.
(e) The Committee shall advise the President as to what action, if any, he should take under section 337(g) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended by section 341 of the Act, relating to unfair practices in import trade.
(f) The Trade Expansion Act Advisory Committee established by Section 4 of Executive Order 11075 of January 15, 1963, is abolished and all of its records are transferred to the Trade Policy Committee.
Sec. 4.
Trade Negotiations Under Title I of the Act.
(a) The functions of the President under section 102 of the Act concerning notice to, and consultation with, Congress, in connection with agreements on nontariff barriers to, and other distortions of, trade, are hereby delegated to the Special Representative.
(b) The Special Representative, after consultation with the Committee, shall prepare, for the President's transmission to Congress, all proposed legislation and other documents necessary or appropriate for the implementation of, or otherwise required in connection with, trade agreements; provided, however, that where implementation of an agreement on nontariff barriers to, and other distortions of, trade requires a change in a domestic law, the department or agency having the primary interest in the administration of such domestic law shall prepare and transmit to the Special Representative the proposed legislation necessary or appropriate for such implementation.
(c) The functions of the President under section 131(c) of the Act with respect to advice of the International Trade Commission and under section 132 of the Act with respect to advice of the departments of the Federal Government and other sources, are delegated to the Special Representative. The functions of the President under section 133 of the Act with respect to public hearings in connection with certain trade negotiations are delegated
to the Special Representative, who shall designate an interagency committee to hold and conduct any such hearings.
(d) The functions of the President under section 135 of the Act with respect to advisory committees and, notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (86 Stat. 770, 5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of reporting annually to Congress, which are applicable to advisory committees under the Act are delegated to the Special Representative. In establishing and organizing general policy advisory committees or sector advisory committees under section 135(c) of the Act, the Special Representative shall act through the Secretaries of Commerce, Labor and Agriculture, as appropriate.
(e) The functions of the President with respect to determining ad valorem amounts and equivalents pursuant to sections 601 (3) and (4) of the Act are hereby delegated to the Special Representative. The International Trade Commission is requested to advise the Special Representative with respect to determining such ad valorem amounts and equivalents. The Special Representative shall seek the advice of the Commission and consult with the Committee with respect to the determination of such ad valorem amounts and equivalents.
(f) Advice of the International Trade Commission under section 131 of the Act, and other advice or reports by the International Trade Commission to the President or the Special Representative, the release or disclosure of which is not specifically authorized or required by law, shall not be released or disclosed in any manner or to any extent not specifically authorized by the President or by the Special Representative.
Sec. 5.
Import Relief and Market Disruption.
(a) The Special Representative is authorized to request from the International Trade Commission the information specified in sections 202(d) and 203(i) (1) and (2) of the Act.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary of Agriculture, as appropriate, is authorized to issue, under section 203(g) of the Act, regulations governing the administration of any quantitative restrictions proclaimed in order to provide import relief and is authorized to issue, under section 203(g) of the Act or 352(b) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, regulations governing the entry, or withdrawal from warehouses for consumption, of articles pursuant to any orderly marketing agreement.
(c) The Secretary of Commerce shall exercise primary responsibility for monitoring imports under any orderly marketing agreement.
Sec. 6.
Unfair Trade Practices.
(a) The Special Representative, acting through an interagency committee which he shall designate for such purpose, shall provide the opportunity for the presentation of views, under sections 301(d)(1) and 301(e)(1) of the Act, with respect to unfair or unreasonable foreign trade practices and with respect to the United States response thereto.
(b) The Special Representative shall provide for appropriate public hearings under section 301(e)(2) of the Act; and, shall issue regulations concerning the filing of requests for, and the conduct of, such hearings.
(c) The Special Representative is authorized to request, pursuant to section 301(e)(3) of the Act, from the International Trade Commission, its views as to the probable impact on the economy of the United States of any action under section 301(a) of the Act.
Sec. 7.
East-West Foreign Trade Board.
(a) In accordance with section 411 of the Act, there is hereby established the East-West Foreign Trade Board, hereinafter referred to as the Board. The Board shall be composed of the following members and such additional members of the Executive branch as the President may designate:
(1) The Secretary of State.
(2) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(3) The Secretary of Agriculture.
(4) The Secretary of Commerce.
(5) The Special Representative for Trade Negotiations.
(6) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(7) The Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy.
(8) The President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
(9) The Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs.
The President shall designate the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the Board. The President may designate an Executive Secretary, who shall be Chairman of a working group which will include membership from the agencies represented on the Board.
(b) The Board shall perform such functions as are required by section 411 of the Act and such other functions as the President may direct.
(c) The Board is authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary or appropriate to carry out its responsibilities under the Act and this Order.
(d) The Secretary of State shall advise the President with respect to determinations required to be made in connection with sections 402 and 409 of the Act (dealing with freedom of emigration) and section 403 (dealing with United States personnel missing in action in Southeast Asia), and shall prepare, for the President's transmission to Congress, the reports and other documents required by sections 402 and 409 of the Act.
(e) The President's Committee on East-West Trade Policy, established by Executive Order 11789 of June 25, 1974, as amended by
section 6(d) of Executive Order 11808 of September 30, 1974, is abolished and all of its records are transferred to the Board.
Sec. 8.
Generalized System of Preferences.
(a) The Special Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall be responsible for the administration of the generalized system of preferences under Title V of the Act.
(b) The Committee, through the Special Representative, shall advise the President as to which countries should be designated as beneficiary developing countries, and as to which articles should be designated as eligible articles for the purposes of the system of generalized preferences.
Sec. 9.
Prior Executive Orders.
(a) Executive Order 11789 of June 25, 1974, and Section 6(d) of Executive Order 11808 of September 30, 1974, relating to the President's Committee on East-West Trade Policy are hereby revoked.
(b)(1) Sections 5(b), 7, and 8 of the Executive Order 11075 of January 15, 1963, are hereby revoked effective April 3, 1975; (2) the remainder of Executive Order 11075, and Executive Order 11106 of April 18, 1963 and Executive Order 11113 of June 13, 1963, are hereby revoked.
[40 FR 18422, Apr. 28, 1975]
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information [Reserved]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
15 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
15 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter VIII
801.3 Revised
31052
801.13 Added
31052
Chapter IX
902.1 (b) table amended
4907
Correction: (b) table amended
15949
960 Revised
30806
Subtitle C
Chapter XX
2013 Removed
7449
2021
15 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter IX
902.1 (b) table amended
22588
922.1 Revised
32752
922.1 Regulation at 86 FR 32752 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.3 Amended
32752
922.3 Regulation at 86 FR 32752 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.13 Regulation at 86 FR 32757 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.44 Revised
32752
922.44 Regulation at 86 FR 32752 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.47 (b) revised
32753
922.47 Regulation at 86 FR 32753 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.48 Revised
32753
922.48 Regulation at 86 FR 32753 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.49 Revised
32753
922.49 Regulation at 86 FR 32753 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.50 Revised
32754
922.50 Regulation at 86 FR 32754 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.120 Revised; eff. date pending
4953
922.120 Regulation at 86 FR 4953 eff. date confirmed
15404
922.121 Amended; eff. date pending
4953
922.121 Regulation at 86 FR 4953 eff. date confirmed
15404
922.122 (e)(1) revised; eff. date pending
4954
922.122 (e)(1) amended; regulation at 86 FR 4953 eff. date confirmed
15404
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Appendix A revised; eff. date pending
4954
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Appendix B revised; eff. date pending
4958
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Regulation at 86 FR 4954 eff. date confirmed
15404
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Regulation at 86 FR 4958 eff. date confirmed
15404
922.131 Amended
62912
922.132 (a)(7) and (c)(1) revised; (f) amended
62912
922.130—922.134 (Subpart M) Appendix E revised
62913
922.210—922.216 (Subpart T) Added
32754
922.210—922.216 (Subpart T) Regulation at 86 FR 32754 eff. date 8-16-21
45860
922.213 (a)(2) stayed to 10-1-23
32757
922.216 (a) amended
45860
950 Appendix A revised
52400
Chapter XV
1500 Added
23276
1500.0—1500.88 (Subpart A) Added
51478
2022
15 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter VIII
801.3 Introductory text revised
54887
801.7 Revised
58956
801.9 Removed
54887
801.10 Revised
58954
801.11 Revised
54887
801.12 Revised
54888
801.13 Revised
54889
Chapter IX
904 Authority citation revised
38935
904.1 (c)(1) through (34) revised; (c)(35) through (40) added
38935
904.2 Amended
38936
904.3 Revised
38936
904.4 Amended
38936
904.101 (a) introductory text revised
38937
904.102 (c) and (d) revised
38937
904.103 Removed
38937
904.105 (a) revised
38937
904.107 (b) revised
38937
904.108 (e), (f), and (h) revised
38937
904.200 (a) revised
38937
904.201 Revised
38937
904.202 (a) revised
38938
904.204 (a) and (m) revised
38938
904.206 (a), (b), and (d) revised
38938
904.209 Revised
38938
904.214 Revised
38938
904.216 (a) introductory text revised
38938
904.240 (a), (b), and (f) introductory text revised
38938
904.241 (a), (c), and (d)(1) revised
38938
904.242 (a) and (b) revised; (d) added
38939
904.243 (a) and (b) revised
38939
904.250 (a) revised
38939
904.251 (a)(3) and (i) revised; (j) added
38939
904.252 (a) and (f) revised
38939
904.260 (b) revised
38939
904.270 (b) revised
38939
904.271 (a) introductory text, (b), (c), and (d) introductory text revised
38939
904.272 Revised
38940
904.273 Revised
38940
904.300 Revised
38941
904.301 Revised
38941
904.302 (a) revised
38941
904.303 (a) removed; (b) and (d) revised
38941
904.304 (b) revised
38941
904.310 Removed
38942
904.311 Heading, introductory text, and (b) revised
38942
904.320 Removed
38942
904.402 (a) revised
38942
904.403 (a) removed; (b) revised
38942
904.500 Revised
38942
904.501 Revised
38942
904.502 (c) revised
38942
904.503 Revised
38942
904.504 (a), (b)(1), and (3)(i) revised
38942
904.505 (c) revised
38942
904.506 (a)(1) and (b)(1) revised
38943
904.509 (g)(2) revised
38943
IX
922.1—922.13 (Subpart A) Revised; interim
29625
922.1—922.13 (Subpart A) Regulation at 87 FR 29625 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.1—922.13 (Subpart A) Regulation at 87 FR 29625 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.10—922.11 (Subpart B) Removed; interim
29629
922.10—922.11 (Subpart B) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.10—922.11 (Subpart B) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.20—922.25 (Subpart C) Removed; interim
29629
922.20—922.25 (Subpart C) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.20—922.25 (Subpart C) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.30—922.37 (Subpart D) Revised; interim
29629
922.30—922.37 (Subpart D) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.30—922.37 (Subpart D) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.40—922.50 (Subpart E) Removed; interim
29629
922.40—922.50 (Subpart E) Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.40—922.50 (Subpart E) Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.60 Revised; interim
29632
922.60 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.60 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.62 Revised; interim
29632
922.62 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.62 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.70 Amended; interim
29632
922.70 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.70 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.71 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29632
922.71 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.71 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.72 (c) revised; interim
29632
922.72 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.72 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.74 Revised; interim
29632
922.74 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.74 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.80 (a) amended; interim
29632
922.80 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.80 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.81 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29632
922.81 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.81 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.82 (c) and (d) revised; interim
29633
922.82 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.82 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.83 Revised; interim
29633
922.83 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.83 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.90 Revised; interim
29633
922.90 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.90 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.91 Introductory text revised; interim
29633
922.91 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.91 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.92 (a) and (c) revised; interim
29633
922.92 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.92 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.93 Revised; interim
29633
922.93 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.93 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.101 Introductory text and (a) revised; interim
29633
922.101 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.101 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.102 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29633
922.102 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.102 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.103 (e) revised; interim
29633
922.103 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.103 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.107 Revised; interim
29633
922.107 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.107 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.110 Amended; interim
29634
922.110 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.110 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.111 Removed; interim
29634
922.111 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.111 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.112 (b) and (d) revised; interim
29634
922.112 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.112 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.113 Revised; interim
29634
922.113 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.113 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.120 Revised; interim
29634
922.120 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.120 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.121 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29634
922.121 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.121 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.122 (a)(7), (f), and (h) revised; interim
29634
922.122 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.122 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.123 Revised; interim
29634
922.123 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.123 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Appendix A revised; interim
29634
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Regulation at 87 FR 29634 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.130 Introductory text revised; (b) amended; interim
29635
922.130 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.130 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.131 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29635
922.131 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.131 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.132 (c)(1) and (d) through (f) revised; interim
29635
922.132 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.132 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.133 Revised
29636
922.133 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.133 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.140 (a) amended; (b) revised; interim
29636
922.140 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.140 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.141 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29636
922.141 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.141 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.142 (d) and (f) revised; interim
29636
922.142 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.142 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.143 Revised; interim
29636
922.143 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.143 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.140—922.143 (Subpart N) Appendix A revised; interim
29636
922.140—922.143 (Subpart N) Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.140—922.143 (Subpart N) Regulation at 87 FR 29636 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.150 (a) revised; interim
29637
922.150 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.150 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.151 Introductory text revised; section amended; interim
29637
922.151 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.151 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.152 (a)(5) introductory text, (e), and (h) revised; interim
29637
922.152 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.152 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.153 Revised; interim
29637
922.153 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.153 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.150—922.154 (Subpart O) Appendix A revised; interim
29637
922.150—922.154 (Subpart O) Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.150—922.154 (Subpart O) Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.161 Revised; interim
29637
922.161 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.161 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.162 (a) introductory text and (b) revised; section amended; interim
29637
922.162 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.162 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.163 (b), (c), and (f) revised; interim
29638
922.163 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.163 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.166 (a) revised; (e), (g), and (h) removed; interim
29638
922.166 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.166 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.181 (a) introductory text revised; interim
29638
922.181 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.181 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.182 (b) revised; interim
29638
922.182 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.182 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.180—922.187 (Subpart Q) Appendix A amended; interim
29638
922.180—922.187 (Subpart Q) Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.180—922.187 (Subpart Q) Regulation at 87 FR 29638 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.190 (a) revised; interim
29640
922.190 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.190 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.194 Removed; interim
29640
922.194 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.194 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.195 Revised; interim
29640
922.195 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.195 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.190—922.198 (Subpart R) Appendix A revised; interim
29641
922.190—922.198 (Subpart R) Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.190—922.198 (Subpart R) Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.205 Revised; interim
29641
922.205 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.205 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.206 (a) and (j) revised; interim
29641
922.206 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.206 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.215 Revised; interim
29641
922.215 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.215 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
922.216 (a) and (j) revised; interim
29641
922.216 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date delayed to 9-26-22
37728
922.216 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 eff. date further delayed to 1-24-23
56268
997 Authority citation revised
16634
997 Heading revised; section amended
16634
997.11 (b) revised
16635
998 Added
31708
998 Authority citation added
59672
998.40—998.45 (Subpart D) Added
59672
2023
15 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter IX
902.1 (b) table amended
7591, 53731
922 Policy statement
67067, 75229
922.1—922.13 (Subpart A) Regulation at 87 FR 29625 withdrawn
953
922.1—922.13 (Subpart A) Revised
958
922.1—922.13 (Subpart A) Regulation at 88 FR 958 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.5 Correction: Revised
19826
922.20—922.25 (Subpart C) Regulation at 88 FR 962 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.30—922.37 (Subpart D) Regulation at 88 FR 962 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.40—922.50 (Subpart E) Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.60 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.62 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.70 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.71 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.72 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.74 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.80 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.81 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.81 Correction: Introductory text revised; section amended
19826
922.82 Regulation at 88 FR 965 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.82 Correction: (d) revised
19826
922.83 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.83 Correction: (b) revised
19826
922.84 Correction: (a) and (j) revised
19829
922.90 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.91 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.92 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.92 Correction: (a) introductory text and (c) revised
19826
922.93 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.101 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.102 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.103 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.103 Correction: (e) revised
19826
922.107 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.110 Regulation at 88 FR 966 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.111 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.112 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.112 Correction: (d) revised
19827
922.113 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.113 Correction: Revised
19827
922.121 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.122 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.122 (b) removed
9393
922.122 Correction: (a)(8) and (f) through (h) revised
19827
922.123 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.123 Correction: Revised
19827
922.130 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.130 Correction: Introductory text revised; (a) and (b) amended
19827
922.131 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.132 Regulation at 88 FR 967 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.132 Correction: (c)(1) and (d) through (f) revised
19827
922.133 Regulation at 88 FR 968 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.134 Correction: (a)(2) and (b)(2) revised
19829
922.140 Regulation at 88 FR 968 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.141 Regulation at 88 FR 968 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.142 Regulation at 88 FR 968 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.142 Correction: (d) and (f) revised
19828
922.143 Regulation at 88 FR 968 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.140—922.143 (Subpart N) Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.150 Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.151 Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.152 Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.152 Correction: (e) and (h) revised
19828
922.153 Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.150—922.154 (Subpart O) Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.161 Regulation at 88 FR 969 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.161 Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.162 Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.162 Correction: (a) introductory text and (b) revised; (a) amended
19828
922.163 Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.166 Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.160—922.167 (Subpart P) Appendix VI amended (temporary)
60889
922.181 Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.182 Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.180—922.187 (Subpart Q) Regulation at 88 FR 970 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.190 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.190 Correction: (a) amended
19828
922.193 Correction: (d) introductory text and (1) revised; (d)(2) removed
19829
922.194 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.195 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.190—922.187 (Subpart R) Regulation at 88 FR 973 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.201 Correction: (b) revised
19829
922.205 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.205 Correction: Revised
19828
922.206 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.206 Correction: (a) and (j) revised
19829
922.211 Correction: (b) revised
19829
922.215 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.215 Correction: Revised
19829
922.216 Regulation at 88 FR 972 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.216 Correction: (a) and (j) revised
19829
922.910—922.911 (Subpart B) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 withdrawn
953
922.910—922.911 (Subpart B) Removed
958
922.910—922.911 (Subpart B) Regulation at 88 FR 958 eff. date delayed to 4-7-23
7357
922.30—922.37 (Subpart C) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 withdrawn
953
922.20—922.25 (Subpart C) Removed
962
922.30—922.37 (Subpart D) Regulation at 87 FR 29629 withdrawn
953
922.30—922.37 (Subpart D) Revised
962
922.40—922.50 (Subpart E) Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.40—922.50 (Subpart E) Removed
965
922.60 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.60 Revised
965
922.62 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.62 Revised
965
922.70 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.70 Amended
965
922.71 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.71 Introductory text revised; section amended
965
922.72 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.72 (c) revised
965
922.74 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.74 Revised
965
922.80 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.80 (a) amended
965
922.81 Regulation at 87 FR 29632 withdrawn
953
922.81 Introductory text revised; section amended
965
922.82 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.82 (c) and (d) revised
965
922.83 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.83 Revised
966
922.90 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.90 Revised
966
922.91 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.91 Introductory text revised
966
922.92 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.92 (a) introductory text and (c) revised
966
922.93 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.93 Revised
966
922.101 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.101 Introductory text and (a) revised
966
922.102 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.102 Introductory text revised; section amended
966
922.103 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.103 (e) revised
966
922.107 Regulation at 87 FR 29633 withdrawn
953
922.107 Revised
966
922.110 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.110 Amended
966
922.111 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.111 Removed
967
922.112 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.112 (b) and (d) revised
967
922.113 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.113 Revised
967
922.120 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.121 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.121 Introductory text revised; section amended
967
922.122 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.122 (a)(7), (f), and (h) revised
967
922.123 Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.123 Revised
967
922.120—922.123 (Subpart L) Regulation at 87 FR 29634 withdrawn
953
922.130 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 withdrawn
953
922.130 Introductory text and (a) revised; (b) amended
967
922.131 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 withdrawn
953
922.131 Introductory text revised; section amended
967
922.132 Regulation at 87 FR 29635 withdrawn
953
922.132 (c)(1) and (d) through (f) revised
967
922.133 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 withdrawn
953
922.133 Revised
968
922.140 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 withdrawn
953
922.140 (a) amended; (b) revised
968
922.141 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 withdrawn
953
922.141 Introductory text revised; section amended
968
922.142 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 withdrawn
953
922.142 (d) and (f) revised
968
922.143 Regulation at 87 FR 29636 withdrawn
953
922.143 Revised
968
922.140—922.143 (Subpart N) Regulation at 87 FR 29636 withdrawn
953
922.140—922.143 (Subpart N) Appendix A revised
969
922.150 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.150 (a) revised
969
922.151 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.151 Introductory text revised; section amended
969
922.152 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.152 (a)(5) introductory text, (e), and (h) revised
969
922.153 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.153 Revised
969
922.150—922.154 (Subpart O) Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.150—922.154 (Subpart O) Appendix A revised
969
922.161 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.161 Revised
969
922.162 Regulation at 87 FR 29637 withdrawn
953
922.162 (a) introductory text and (b) revised; (a) amended
970
922.163 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 withdrawn
953
922.163 (b), (c), and (f) revised
970
922.166 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 withdrawn
953
922.166 (a) revised; (e), (g), and (h) removed
970
922.181 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 withdrawn
953
922.181 (a) introductory text revised
970
922.182 Regulation at 87 FR 29638 withdrawn
953
922.182 (b) Revised
970
922.180—922.187 (Subpart Q) Regulation at 87 FR 29638 withdrawn
953
922.180—922.187 (Subpart Q) Appendix A amended
970
922.190 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 withdrawn
953
922.190 (a) revised
972
922.194 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 withdrawn
953
922.194 Removed
972
922.195 Regulation at 87 FR 29640 withdrawn
953
922.195 Revised
972
922.190—922.198 (Subpart R) Regulation at 87 FR 29641 withdrawn
953
922.190—922.198 (Subpart R) Appendix A revised
973
922.205 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 withdrawn
953
922.205 Revised
973
922.206 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 withdrawn
953
922.206 (a) and (j) revised
973
922.215 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 withdrawn
953
922.215 Revised
973
922.216 Regulation at 87 FR 29641 withdrawn
953
922.216 (a) and (j) revised
973
950 Appendix A revised
56466
998 (Subchapter H) Added
48725
998 Transferred to Subchapter H; heading revised
48725
998.50—998.54 (Subpart E) Added
48725
Chapter XX
2004 Authority citation added
47772
2004.6 (d)(2)(i) and (ii) revised; (d)(2)(iii) and (iv) added; interim
47772
2004.6 Regulation at 88 FR 47772 confirmed
60117
2024
15 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter IX
902.1 (b) table amended
34757, 60807
922 Policy statement
68100
922.1 (a)(2) revised
48286, 83594
922.1 Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
922.4 Revised
48286, 83594
922.4 Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
922.6 Revised
48286, 83594
922.6 Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
922.7 (b)(7) added
48287
922.11 Amended
48287
922.30 (a)(2) revised
48287
922.30 (a)(2) revised; (b)(5) and (6) amended; (b)(7) added
83594
922.30 Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
922.36 (a) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
48287, 83594
922.36 Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
922.37 (a)(2) revised
83594
922.37 Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
922.132 CFR correction: (f) amended
93169
922.160—922.168 (Subpart P) Appendix VI amended (temporary); interim
53486
922.220—922.227 (Subpart U) Added
48287
922.223 (a)(3); eff. date stayed until 7-21-26
48291
922.223 Regulation at 89 FR 48291 eff. date confirmed
59610
922.230—922.235 (Subpart V) Added
83594
922.230—922.235 (Subpart V) Regulation at 83594 eff. date confirmed
95101
Chapter XIV
1400.1 Revised; eff. 1-15-25
101467
1400.2 (a) revised; eff. 1-15-25
101467
1400.3 Undesignated text following (d) redesignated as (d) Note 1 and amended; eff. 1-15-25
101467
○
