(2) The nature and extent of the life tenant's disability, if any.
(3) The location of the life estate lease, including but not limited to, the following factors:
(i) Topography,
(ii) Proximity to water,
(iii) Proximity to fuel,
(iv) Proximity to shopping and medical services, and
(v) Any other factors deemed relevant to the Commission.
(4) The nature and extent of care to be provided to a disabled life tenant.
(5) Any other factors deemed relevant by the Commission.
(c) In the event it becomes necessary to change the identity of the person(s) or number of persons identified as necessarily present for the care of the life tenant, the life tenant shall make such request for change to the Commission. The Commission, upon review of the request, may grant an amended life estate lease to reflect the requested change.
§ 700.341
Access to life estate leases.
(a) Family members and other persons may enter upon the life estate lease premises for the purpose of visiting the life estate lease residents so long as such visit does not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days in any one visit or ninety (90) days total of all visits within any lease year, except that grandchildren and their descendants who are not minor dependents of the life tenant and who have not attained the age of 18 (eighteen) years may visit for ninety (90) consecutive days in any lease year, the first of which shall commence on the date of issuance of the life estate lease. There shall be no limitation on visits which do not extend overnight.
(b) Visitors and residents shall use the existing road systems and access rights of way when traveling to and from life estate lease premises.
§ 700.343
Life estate leases.
The Commission shall execute a life estate lease to each applicant to whom a life estate lease is granted, which lease shall contain the following:
(a) The names of the persons entitled to reside on the life estate lease which shall be the life tenant, his or her spouse, and minor dependents and/or such persons who are necessarily present to provide for the care of life tenant.
(b) A description of the exterior boundaries of the land included in said lease.
(c) The term of the life estate lease which shall end either upon voluntary relinquishment or upon the death of the life tenant or his/her spouse, whichever occurs last.
(d) That the life tenant may feed not to exceed twenty-five (25) sheep units per year or equivalent livestock on the life estate lease premises.
(e) That no person may reside on a life estate lease other than the life tenant, his or her spouse, and minor dependents, and/or such persons who are necessarily present to provide for the care of the life tenant.
(f) That the Secretary of Interior shall pay, pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-28(i), Pub. L. 96-305, section 30(i), on an annual basis, the fair market rental value of such life estate lease to the tribe to whom the lands leased were partitioned. Rental payments shall be made within thirty (30) days of the execution date of the life estate lease.
(g) That the life tenant may make reasonable improvements on the life estate lease which are related to the residence and agricultural purposes of
the life tenancy as determined by the Commission. Such improvements:
(1) May include the renovation or replacement of existing dwelling structures and privies or outhouses so as to improve their utility, safety or level of modern utilities or amenities, but
(2) Shall not increase the number, size, or capacity of dwelling structures on the leased area except with the express written approval of the Commission based upon a showing of actual need, or to reasonably accommodate a resident care provider for whom there is not adequate existing residential capacity.
(3) May include not more than one shed or barn to be used in connection with livestock and/or agricultural activities permitted.
(4) May include one ceremonial hogan and one traditional ramada type structure.
(5) May include a garden of reasonable size.
(6) May include such other improvements as the Commission finds to be reasonable under the circumstances of each lease.
(h) That no person may visit on a life estate lease for more than thirty (30) consecutive days in any one visit or ninety (90) days total of all visits within any lease year the first of which shall commence on the date of issuance of the life estate lease, except that grandchildren and their descendants who are not minor dependents of the life tenant and who have not attained the age of eighteen (18) years may visit for ninety (90) consecutive days in any lease year. There shall be no limitation on visits which do not extend overnight.
(i) That said life tenant or his or her surviving spouse may relinquish said life estate lease at any time and may receive relocation benefits from the Secretary at the time of relinquishment as provided in 25 U.S.C. 640d-28(h), (Pub. L. 96-305, section 30(h)).
(j) The purposes for which the life estate lease may be used.
(k) The life estate tenure shall end by voluntary relinquishment, or at the death of the life tenant or the death of his or her spouse, whichever occurs last, all as provided in 25 U.S.C. 640d-28(g) (Pub. L. 96-305, section 30(g)).
(l) No livestock shall be allowed in the lease area until the perimeter of the lease area is fenced.
(m) Such other terms and conditions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Commission.

# Subpart N—Discretionary Funds

# Source:
47 FR 57916, Dec 29, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.451
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to establish procedures for the submission, review and approval, and administration of applications for financial assistance from the discretionary fund established by Pub. L. 93-531, as amended.
(b) The purpose of the discretionary fund is to provide financial assistance to activities which will facilitate and expedite the relocation and resettlement of individuals under the Act and ease the hardship incurred by these individuals.
§ 700.453
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means Pub. L. 93-531 (88 Stat. 1712, 25 U.S.C. 640d), as amended.
(b)
Applicant
means with respect to this subpart, any applicant as defined under § 700.457(c) or § 700.459(b).
(c)
Business
means any lawful activity, except a nonprofit organization, that is—
(1) Conducted primarily for the purchase, sale, lease and/or rental of personal and/or real property, and/or for the manufacture, processing, and/or marketing of products, commodities, and/or any other personal property; or
(2) Conducted primarily for the sale of services to the public.
(d)
Commissioners
means the three Commissioners of the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission.
(e)
In-kind contribution
means a noncash contribution as described in attachment F of OMB Circular A-102.
(f)
Local government
means a local unit of government including specifically a county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority, special district, council of governments, and other regional or interstate entity, or any agency or instrumentality of a local government.
(g)
Nonprofit organization
means a corporation, partnership, individual, or other public or private entity that is engaged in a lawful business, professional, or instructional activity on a nonprofit basis and that has established its nonprofit status under applicable Federal, State, or Tribal law.
(h)
Related facilities
means any building or structure normally found in a community and includes but is not limited to water, sewer and electrical lines, community centers, health centers and clinics, roads, and business establishments.
(i)
Services
means activities relating to human development including, but not limited to, educational and job training, mental health counseling, health care, and technical assistance in business administration, agriculture, and home economics.
(j)
Tribe
means the Navajo Chapter or the Hopi Village.
(k)
Tribal subdivision
means a Navajo Chapter or a Hopi Village.
§ 700.455
Financial assistance.
(a) The Commission may provide financial assistance to applicants eligible under this subpart from funds available for any fiscal year.
(b) To obtain financial assistance, an applicant shall submit an application in accordance with § 700.463.
(c) The Commission may make funding decisions throughout the year as applications are approved. The Commission shall, to the extent possible, make funds available throughout the year for approved applications. Based upon the merit of applications received under this subpart, the Commission shall determine how funds available under this subpart shall be apportioned among the activities described in §§ 700.457 and 700.459.
§ 700.457
Assistance to match or pay 30% of grants, contracts or other expenditures.
(a) The purpose of applications for financial assistance under this section shall be to aid individuals subject to relocation under the Act and to assist the host communities, towns, cities, or other entities in adjusting to and meeting the needs of the relocatees. For this purpose, the discretionary fund may be used to match or pay not to exceed 30% (thirty percent) of any grant, contract, or other expenditure of the Federal Government, State or local government, tribal government or chapter, or private organization for the benefit of the Navajo or Hopi Tribe, if the Commission determines that such grant, contract, or expenditure would significantly assist the Commission in carrying out its responsibility or assist either tribe in meeting the burdens imposed by this Act.
(b) An “other expenditure” under this subsection is defined as cooperative agreements, direct provision of services, or in-kind contributions. The Commission may match or pay not to exceed 30% (thirty percent) of another expenditure through a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.
(c) Eligible applicants under this section for a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement are defined as States, local government, the Navajo and Hopi Tribes, tribal chapters or villages and profit and nonprofit organizations.
(d) Total Federal financial assistance under this section may reach 100% (one hundred percent) if the applicant receives 70% (seventy percent) Federal funding from Federal agencies other than the Commission.
(e) When another Federal agency is a primary source of financial assistance for an applicant, the Commission may, pursuant to an interagency agreement, transfer funds to the primary Federal agency providing financial assistance to the applicant.
(f) The Commission may, pursuant to an interagency agreement, transfer not to exceed 10% (ten percent) of the funds available under this subpart to another Federal agency directly assisting relocatees if such agency's activities would accomplish the purpose of paragraph (a) of this section. Financial assistance transferred to accomplish an eligible activity under paragraph (a) of this section may not exceed the funding limitation of paragraph (a) of this section.
(g) An applicant may apply for financial assistance under this section in accordance with the funding limitations described in paragraph (a) for the purpose of undertaking a technical feasibility study of a construction project
or any major project with a total funding of over $200,000 (two hundred thousand dollars) or any dollar amount which the Commission may prescribe at some future time.
§ 700.459
Assistance for demonstration projects and for provision of related facilities and services.
(a) The purpose of applications for financial assistance under this section shall be to aid individuals subject to relocation under the Act. For this purpose, the discretionary fund may be used by the Commission to engage or participate either directly through Federal activities, or by cooperative agreement, grant, or contract in demonstration efforts to employ innovative energy or other technologies in providing housing and related facilities and services in the relocation and resettlement of individuals under this Act.
(b) Applicants eligible under this section to receive grants, cooperative agreements or contracts are: states, local governments, the Navajo and Hopi Tribes, tribal chapters, profit and nonprofit organizations, and individuals.
(c) Applicants for assistance under this section may receive up to 100% (one hundred percent) project or program funding from the Commission, however, the Commission may specify whether applications for certain types of programs or projects under this section require matching funding from the applicant.
(d) Activities described in § 700.457(a) and paragraph (a) of this section may be provided by the Commission through in-house activities which receive financial assistance under this section.
(e) The Commission may, pursuant to an interagency agreement, transfer not to exceed 10% (ten percent) of the funds available under this subpart to another Federal agency directly assisting relocatees if such agency's activities would accomplish the purpose of §§ 700.457(a) and 700.459(a).
(f) An applicant may apply for financial assistance under this section for the purpose of undertaking a technical feasibility study of a construction project, or any major project with a total planned funding of over $200,000, (two hundred thousand dollars) or any dollar amount which the Commission may prescribe at some future time.
§ 700.461
Method for soliciting applications.
(a) The Commission shall utilize two methods to solicit applications for funding:
(1) The Commission shall issue an annual announcement of the availability of funds for programs which will most effectively meet the purposes of § 700.457(a) or 700.459(a). Applicants submitting applications under this announcement must demonstrate that the proposed project or program will effectively facilitate and expedite the relocation effort of the Commission.
(2) As priority needs are identified by the Commission, calls shall be issued during the fiscal year for specific proposals. Requests for proposal shall define the need to be addressed and the scope of work required.
(b) The annual announcements of the availability of funds and periodic requests for proposals shall be issued through the Commerce Business Daily and media which has regional and local circulation. The Commission may fund approved applications through grant, contract, or direct provision of services, pursuant to Pub. L. 93-531, as amended.
§ 700.463
Requirements for applications.
(a) Applicants shall submit preapplications for funding assistance. The preapplication shall be due by the closing date published by the Commission, and shall consist of:
(1) Standard Form 424;
(2) A brief narrative not to exceed one page describing how the program or project will meet the priorities established by the Commission pursuant to § 700.457 or § 700.459.
(b) The Commission shall respond to each preapplication, and shall request each person submitting an acceptable preapplication to submit an application.
(c) Applications for financial assistance for a project or program may be submitted by the due date established by the Commission for a particular
funding cycle. Applications received after the due date will be considered for the next funding cycle, although the Commission, at its discretion, may select such a project for funding under the current cycle. An original and 5 (five) copies of each application must be submitted to the Commission. Applications shall be submitted on such forms as the Commission may prescribe in conformity with OMB circulars A102 or A110.
(d) Applications under § 700.457 for matching financial assistance not to exceed 30% of another expenditure, shall include:
(1) A detail sheet showing the sources of matching funds, including both cash and in-kind contributions, and documentation that the applicant has fulfilled all of the requirements of any Federal agency, state or local government or chapter, or private organization from which the financial assistance is also requested; and
(2) A narrative statement which includes an explanation of how the application would aid relocatees and assist the host communities, towns, cities, or other entities in adjusting to and meeting the needs of relocatees.
(e) Applications for financial assistance under § 700.459 must justify the proposed project or program as a demonstration effort in order to be eligible for 100% funding.
(f) Applications shall contain a statement of how the applicant plans to comply with the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450e) and the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596) as amended (25 U.S.C. 452-457).
§ 700.465
Technical feasibility.
Unless required by a non-Commission source of financial assistance, completed plans and specifications are not required at the time an application is submitted for construction, technology, or another engineering project, however, an application for a construction, technology or another engineering project shall:
(a) Include sufficient information to determine the nature and scope of the project, its probable useful life, and a reasonable estimate of cost;
(b) Fully show that the applicant will follow design and performance criteria which conform to professionally recognized standards and which adequately define the technical capability of the project to serve current and foreseeable needs; and
(c) Justify any evidence or use of unorthodox design.
(d) Show that the applicant has a management plan for the facility which identifies probable sources of operating funds.
(e) An applicant who is awarded a grant under § 700.465 is required to submit completed plans and specifications for the construction, technology, or other engineering project prior to construction. The Commission shall review the completed plans and specifications for technical adequacy as part of its oversight function.
§ 700.467
Construction costs.
Construction costs and costs relating to construction such as machinery and equipment, architect/engineer services, and administrative services may be allowable as determined by the Commission.
§ 700.469
Unallowable program and project costs.
Costs for program or project operating expenses are not allowable except in the following cases—
(a) An application for an annual contract for services under § 700.457 or 700.459 may include necessary operating expenses; and
(b) An application for a demonstration effort under § 700.459 may include costs relating to the operation of the demonstration.
§ 700.471
Review and approval.
(a) Upon receipt of an application for financial assistance under this subpart, members of the Commission staff shall begin a preliminary review of the application with the intent of submitting a recommendation to the Commissioners of whether to accept or deny the application. The Commission staff may inform the applicant before its recommendation to the Commissioners, of any special problems or impediments which may result in a recommendation for disapproval; may
offer any available technical assistance required to overcome such problems or impediments; and solicit the applicants written response.
(b) The Commission staff may solicit comments on an application from technical specialists, community groups and others, when such advice is needed to fully evaluate the application.
(c) The Commission staff shall forward the application with their recommendation to the Commissioners. The Commissioners may approve applications if they determine that:
(1) The application meets the requirements of this subpart;
(2) The application meets the intent of the Act;
(3) The application fully demonstrates that it will expedite the relocation and resettlement of individuals under the Act and ease the hardship incurred by these individuals or by the Tribes;
(4) The application is compatible with priorities identified by the Commission;
(5) The applicant can carry out the activities described in the application and can maintain proper financial controls on the activities for which financial assistance is requested;
(6) The applicant can and will comply with requirements for Indian preference in employment and training in connection with the administration of the grant, and preference to Indian organizations and Indian owned economic enterprises in the award of subcontracts or subgrants; and
(7) Funds are available.
(d) All applicants shall be notified in writing of the Commission's approval or disapproval of the grant applications.
§ 700.473
Administrative expenditures of the Commission.
The Commission may use funds in an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the funds authorized under this subpart for expenses relating to the administration of the discretionary fund including—
(a) Personnel, whose time is expended directly in support of such administration;
(b) Supplies which are expended directly in support of such administration;
(c) Contracts, where the work performed is directly related to such administration;
(d) Printing, directly in support of such administration; and
(e) Travel, directly related to such administration.
§ 700.475
Reports.
Reports shall be furnished by any recipient of financial assistance under this subpart, in such manner as may be required by the Commission.
§ 700.477
Administration of financial assistance and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) A State or local government (except an institution of higher education or a hospital since they are governed by paragraph (b) of this section), or the Navajo or Hopi Tribe receiving a grant or cooperative agreement under this subpart shall comply with applicable law including the following requirements—
(1) Office of Management and Budget Circular A-102, entitled “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants-in-Aid to State and Local Governments” including attachment C describing recordkeeping requirements; and
(2) Federal Management Circular 74-4 5 CFR part 1310, entitled “Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts with State and Local Governments.”
(b) A nonprofit organization, institution of higher education, or hospital receiving a grant or cooperative agreement under this subpart shall comply with applicable law including the following requirements—
(1) Office of Management and Budget Circular A-110, entitled “Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit Organizations” including attachment C describing recordkeeping requirements; and
(2) Office of Management and Budget Circular A-122, entitled “Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations.”
(c) A profit organization receiving a grant or cooperative agreement under this subpart shall comply with applicable law including Federal Procurement Regulations (41 CFR subpart 1-15.2) for
determining the reasonableness, allowability, and allocability of costs.
(d) A profit organization, tribal chapter, or individual receiving a grant or cooperative agreement under this subpart shall—
(1) Follow sound and proper procedures for the administration of the financial assistance including any procedures established by the Commission; and
(2) Retain records as required by the Commission.
(e) A State, local government, the Navajo or Hopi Tribe, a tribal chapter or an individual receiving a contract under this subpart shall comply with applicable law including Federal Procurement Regulations (41 CFR parts 1-1 through 1-30). Recordkeeping requirements for contracts are described in §§ 1-3.814-2, 1-7.103-3, 1-7.103-18, 1-7.603-20, and 1-7.603-7 of the Federal Procurement Regulations.
(f) A State, local government, profit or nonprofit organization, or an individual residing off of the Navajo or Hopi reservation applying for a grant or cooperative agreement under this subpart shall comply with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-95, entitled “Evaluation, Review and Coordination of Federal and Federally Assisted Programs and Projects” unless exempted under Part I, section 8.b. of this circular.
(g) Recipients of financial assistance under this subpart shall comply with other procedures which the Commission may from time to time prescribe for the administration of financial assistance provided under this subpart.
(h) A state or local government, nonprofit organization, institution of higher education, hospital, profit organization or individual receiving a grant, subgrant, contract or subcontract under this part shall comply with the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450e) and the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596) as amended (25 U.S.C. 452-457) which require that to the greatest extent feasible:
(1) Preferences and opportunities for training and employment in connection with the administration of such contracts or grants shall be given to Indians; and
(2) Preference in the award of subcontracts and subgrants in connection with the administration of such contracts or grants shall be given to Indian organization and to Indian owned economic enterprises as defined in section 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77) (25 U.S.C. 1452).
§ 700.479
Administrative review.
(a) If the Commissioners determine that implementation of an application approved according to § 700.471 fails to meet the requirements of this subpart, the Commissioners shall give notice to the recipient of their intent to terminate or suspend financial assistance to the recipient.
(b) The Commission shall issue such notice in written form sent by registered mail, return receipt requested, which notice shall include a statement of the reasons for the findings referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, and an explanation whether any amendments or actions would result in compliance with grant terms and conditions.
(c) Any person whose approved financial assistance is terminated or suspended under paragraph (b) of this section may request a review of such action by the Commission. Such request for review shall be in writing and must be mailed or delivered to the Commission not later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice from the Commission by the applicant. Such request for review shall state the reasons for the request and shall include any additional matters not before the Commission which the applicant deems appropriate. The Commission may grant or deny a review at its discretion and shall inform the applicant of its decision in writing.

# Subpart O—Employee Responsibility and Conduct

# Source:
47 FR 11858, Mar. 19, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.501
Statement of purpose.
This part prescribes appropriate standards of conduct and responsibilites, financial disclosure reports, and rules of ethics in the conduct of Government business that are
mandatory for all who serve with the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission, and in order to implement the requirements of law, Executive Order 11222 and 5 CFR part 905. The rules promulgated by the Commission as essential to agency operations are in addition to the criminal laws and other laws governing conduct of Federal employees. Like the laws, they will be strictly interpreted and firmly enforced. Ignorance of these rules or laxity in observance or enforcement of them will not be condoned. They are the prime responsibility of all Commission personnel.
§ 700.503
Definitions.
(a)
Special Government Employee
: An officer or employee who has been employed to perform temporary duties, with or without compensation, for not more than 130 days during any period of 365 consecutive days, either on a full-time or intermittent basis (18 U.S.C. 202(a)).
(b)
Employee
: Any officer or employee of the Commission who is not a special government employee.
(c)
Commission personnel
: All officers and employees of the Commission, including special Government employees.
(d)
Persons
: An individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or any other organization or institution.
(e)
Gratuity
: Any gift, honorarium, favor, entertainment, hospitality, transportation, loan, or any other tangible thing, and any other intangible benefit (i.e., discounts) given to or on behalf of Commission employees or their spouses or dependent children for which fair market value is not paid by the recipient or by the Government.
§ 700.505
Coverage.
The regulations contained in this part apply to all Commission personnel. Exceptions applicable to special Government employees and members of the Senior Executive Service are noted in the body of this part.
§ 700.507
Responsibilities.
(a)
Office of the Commission and Office of Executive Direction.
(1) The Chairman of the Commission shall prepare and submit to the Office of Personnel Management for approval, standards of employee conduct which implement requirements of law, Executive Order 11222 and provisions of 5 CFR part 905; and prescribe additional standards of ethical and other conduct and reporting requirements that are appropriate to the agency. After OPM approval, the Chairman shall submit the agency's regulations to the
Federal Register
for publication. These requirements also apply to any amendments to agency regulations.
(2) The Commissioners shall appoint a Designated Agency Ethics Official and Deputy Ethics Official in accordance with 5 CFR 738.202(b). Responsibilities of these officials are described below in § 735.15.
(3) The Executive Director shall ensure that the regulations published under this part are disseminated to all Commission personnel and that staff are familiar with and understand the standards of conduct and statutes governing conflicts of interest and post Federal employment restrictions.
(4) The Executive Director shall ensure that disciplinary or remedial action is taken in the case of all agency personnel who violate these standards or related laws and regulations, and against supervisors who fail to carry out their responsibilities in taking disciplinary or remedial action in such cases.
(b)
Managers and supervisors.
Managers and supervisors shall ensure that all Commission personnel under their supervision are familiar with and understand these regulations governing standards of conduct, conflict of interest, and referenced statutory restrictions, and adhere to them at all times. Issues and problems which cannot be resolved through the discussion process inherent in the supervisor-employee relationship shall be referred to the Designated Agency Ethics Official. Managers and supervisors shall ensure that disciplinary or remedial action is taken with all agency personnel who violate these regulations, and against subordinate supervisors who fail to carry out their responsibilities for effecting or recommending disciplinary or remedial action in these cases.
(c)
Employees.
All Commission personnel shall be familiar with the standards of conduct governed in this directive and the laws governing conflicts of interest and post employment restrictions, and shall comply with them. When in doubt as to the permissibility of an action under the terms of this directive, the employee shall not act without first consulting the immediate supervisor and as appropriate seeking the advice of the Designated Agency Ethics Official.
(d)
Office of Management Operations.
(1) The Office of Management Operations shall give each employee a copy of these regulations and shall conduct an oral briefing on their contents, within 30 days of approval. New personnel shall receive a copy and oral briefing promptly upon assuming their duties. Additions and amendments shall be similarly communicated upon approval.
(2) The Office shall conduct annual review sessions of these standards for all personnel.
(3) The Office shall provide the Designated Agency Ethics Official with necessary administrative and clerical staff support.
§ 700.509
Duties of the designated agency ethics official.
The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall coordinate and manage the agency's ethics program. The Deputy Ethics Official shall serve as alternate Agency Ethics Official in the absence of the Designated Agency Ethics Official, or upon his or her express delegation. Specific duties of the Officer include:
(a)
Liaison with Office of Government Ethics (OGE).
The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall establish and maintain close working relations with the OGE, and shall coordinate communications between the Commission and OGE through the Agency Liaison Division and Office of Ethics of the General Services Administration. If the Designated Agency Ethics Official receives a request which he or she believes should be answered by the Office of Government Ethics, a referral procedure is available. Requests for advisory opinions shall be submitted as specified in 5 CFR 738.304. The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall provide the OGE with records, reports and any other information which may be required under the Ethics in Government Act (Pub. L. 95-521, as amended) or requested by the OGE.
(b)
Review of statements.
The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall review the statements of employment and financial interest submitted by agency personnel assessing the application of conflict of interest laws and regulations to the information reported. When the review discloses a conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, between the private interests of an employee and the performance of his or her duties as a Commission employee, the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall bring the conflict to the attention of the employee, grant the individual an opportunity to explain the conflict, and attempt to resolve it. If the conflict is not resolved at this point, the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall forward a written report on the conflict to the Chairman of the Commission recommending appropriate action. In developing the recommendation the Designated Agency Ethics Official may consult, as appropriate, with the agency General Counsel and the GSA Ethics Office.
(c)
Education and counseling program.
The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall design and conduct an education and counseling program for supervisors and employees on all ethics and standards of conduct matters, including post-employment matters. Records shall be kept as appropriate on the advice rendered.
(d)
Administrative systems review.
The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall ensure that these regulations and implementing administrative systems are evaluated annually to determine their adequacy and effectiveness in relation to current agency responsibilities. Amendments shall be developed and approved pursuant to the results of systems review.
§ 700.511
Statements of employment and financial interests.
(a)
Employees required to file statements.
(1) Members of the Commission shall submit Financial Disclosure Reports (SF-278) to the Deputy Ethics
Counselor of the Department of Interior, according to instructions received from that office. Issues of real or apparent conflict of interest which involve employees of the Senior Executive Service shall be resolved by the Ethics Officer of the Department of the Interior.
(2) The Designated Agency Ethics Official shall submit SF-278 to the Office of Government Ethics for review.
(3) The employee appointed as Deputy Ethics Official and incumbents of the positions listed below shall file NHIRC form 738.1F with the Designated Agency Ethics Official:
(i) Executive Director.
(ii) General Counsel.
(iii) Assistant Director for Management Operations.
(iv) Assistant Director for Relocation Operations.
(v) Chief, Technical Services Division.
(vi) Chief, Realty Division.
(vii) Chief, Advisory Services Division.
(viii) Chief, Office of Research, Planning and Evaluation.
(ix) Procurement/Fiscal Officer.
(x) Realty Specialists.
(xi) Construction Inspectors.
(4) The Designated Agency Ethics Official may require Statements of Employment and Financial Interest from employees in other specified positions, if analysis of duties and responsibilities shows the positions meet the criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(5) Special Government Employees shall file NHIRC form 738.2F with the Designated Agency Ethics Official prior to beginning employment or service with the Commission. The Designated Agency Ethics Official may waive this requirement if the duties of the position held by the special Government employee are of a nature or at such a level of responsibility that the submission of the statement by the incumbent is not necessary to protect the integrity of the Commission or the Government.
(b)
Criteria for selection of positions subject to filing requirements.
The following criteria govern selection of employees who must also file statements of Employment and Financial Interest (NHIRC Form 738.1F) with the Designated Agency Ethics Official.
(1) Statements of Employment and Financial Interest shall be required of employees holding positions which are responsible for:
(i) Contracting or procurement.
(ii) Administering or monitoring grants and subcontracts.
(iii) Other activities where the decision or action has an economic impact on the interests of any person or non-Federal enterprise.
(2) When a new position is established or the duties of an existing position are materially changed, the position shall be evaluated pursuant to the criteria of this section to determine whether or not it should be designated as one requiring the incumbent to submit a Statement of Employment and Financial Interests.
(c)
Interests of relatives.
The interest of a spouse, minor child, or other member of an employee's immediate household is considered to be an interest of the employee. Reports must include but are not limited to identification of such an individual's employer, financial holdings and debts. These provisions also apply to special Government employees.
(d)
Employee complaint against filing requirements.
An employee who believes that his or her position has been improperly included among those requiring the submission of a Statement of Employment and Financial Interests may obtain review through the Commission's administrative grievance procedure.
(e)
Procedures for obtaining statements.
Following approval of these regulations, the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall give each employee and special Government employee required to file under this part, a copy of the appropriate NHIRC form. An enclosure with the form shall advise that:
(1) The completed form shall be returned in a sealed envelope marked “personal-in confidence” to the Designated Agency Ethics Official within 30 days.
(2) The services of the Designated Agency Ethics Official are available to assist and advise in preparation of the statement.
(3) Any additions or deletions to the information furnished must be reported within 30 days of the time they occur, or in the case of a special Government employee, at the time the change occurs, and
(4) No later than June 1 of each year all employees and special Government employees required to file under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall file an annual supplementary statement to update the information previously filed.
(5) New employees required to file under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall submit a statement within 30 days of beginning employment with the Commission.
(e)
Confidentiality of statements.
Statements of employment and financial interest shall be held in confidence. Access to information from the statements shall not be disclosed except to carry out the purpose of this directive.
(f)
Resolving conflicts of interest.
When the Designated Agency Ethics Official determines from review of the statement that a conflict of interest may exist, the submitter shall have the opportunity to provide additional information, which shall become part of the record. The Designated Agency Ethics Official and the concerned employee shall make every effort to resolve the conflict in a manner that is mutually acceptable. If these efforts are not successful the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall forward a report and recommendation to the Chairman of the Commission for final action. Remedial action directed by the Chairman may include but is not limited to:
(1) Disqualification for a particular assignment.
(2) Change in assigned duties.
(3) Divestment of the employee or special Government employee of the conflicting interests.
(4) Disciplinary action, including removal.
§ 700.513
Business dealings on behalf of the government.
(a) All employees shall conduct themselves on the job so as to efficiently discharge the work of the Commission. Employees shall observe courtesy, consideration and promptness in dealing with clients, other governmental agencies, and members of the public.
(b) Commission personnel conducting business with contractors, realtors, vendors, service providers and other public and private agencies, organizations, business and individuals shall maintain strict impartiality in their business dealings. Commission employees shall not allow themselves to be placed in a position in which a conflict of interest might arise or might justifiably be suspected. Such a conflict may arise or appear to arise by the acceptance of gratuities or by any action which could reasonably be interpreted as influencing the strict impartiality that must prevail in all business relationships involving the Commission. However, this requirement of impartiality is not intended to prohibit advocacy of client interests, as is required as a stated duty of certain agency positions. Such advocacy may occur for example during warrantee representation or during technical representation with builders.
§ 700.515
Conflicts of interest.
(a) A conflict of interest may exist when an employee uses, or appears to use, his or her official position to obtain benefits for himself or herself, close friends, relatives, or business associates. A conflict of interest may also exist if an employee's private activities interfere with the proper discharge of his or her official duties. If an employee has any doubt about whether or not a particular situation is, or gives the appearance of being a conflict of interest, the situation should be discussed with the immediate supervisor. Should further review be required, the Designated Agency Ethics Official shall be consulted.
(b) Principal situations where conflict of interest may develop are regulated by the sections which follow. However, these regulations do not preclude other conflict of interest situations which may arise in connection with the work of the Commission.
(c) These prohibitions apply to all Commission employees, whether or not they are required to file financial and employment disclosure statements.
§ 700.517
Affiliations and financial interests.
(a) Commission personnel shall not engage in any personal, business, or professional activity, or receive or retain any direct or indirect financial interest, which places them in a position of conflict or apparent conflict between their private interests and the public interests of the United States as related to the duties of their Commission positions.
(b) Employees are prohibited from accepting money, goods or services other than official compensation for any act performed by the employee as part of his or her official duties.
(c) Commission personnel shall not use, directly or indirectly, inside information for private gain for themselves, family members, or others if that information is not generally available to the public and was obtained as a result of Commission employment.
(d) Commission personnel are prohibited from using their official positions to induce, coerce, or in any manner influence any person, including subordinates, to provide any improper benefit, financial or otherwise, to themselves or others.
(e) Employees may not have any personal interest in transactions which are directed, regulated, or effected by the Commission pursuant to the authorities vested in the agency by Pub. L. 93-531 and Pub. L. 96-395. Specifically:
(1) No Commission employee shall have a personal interest in a contract, subcontract, memorandum of understanding or agreement, or other arrangement resulting in payment for the delivery of goods, services, or supplies to the Commission, to the Navajo or Hopi tribal governments, or to individual relocatees or groups of relocatees.
(2) No Commission employee shall have or seek an interest in real or personal property acquired for transfer to the Navajo or Hopi Tribes.
(3) No Commission employee shall have or seek an interest in any activity supported financially by the Commission through the award of Discretionary Funds.
(4) During the process of acquiring replacement housing for relocatees no employee may have a personal interest in the activities of a contractor, realtor, or other business entity selected by the relocatee to furnish replacement housing; nor may the employee influence the relocatee to select any realtor, contractor or other business entity with which the employee has personal or business affiliations.
(5) Nothing in this section shall restrict a relocatee's right to exercise free and independent judgment in selecting a realtor, contractor, or other vendor or service provider; regardless of any personal or business relationship of that entity to a Commission employee, provided the employee has not influenced the choice of the relocatee in any manner.
(6) Nothing in this section shall restrict a Commission employee who is eligible for relocation benefits from applying for and obtaining such benefits according to published criteria; nor to prevent the Commission from employing a member of the Hopi or Navajo Tribe who has been, or is in the process, of being relocated pursuant to the law.
(7) Commission employees shall disqualify themselves from investigating and preparing recommendations regarding eligibility determination for applicants to whom they are closely related by blood or marriage.
§ 700.519
Gifts, entertainment and favors.
(a) Acceptance of gratuities, including gifts, entertainment and favors, (no matter how innocently tendered or received) from those who have or seek business dealings with the Commission, is prohibited as it may be a source of embarrassment to the recipient, and may impair public confidence in the integrity of the conduct of the Government's business. It is emphasized that prohibited conflicts and apparent conficts of interest can sometimes arise even from relationships and transactions that the persons concerned perceive as inconsequential.
(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, Commission personnel and their spouses, minor children and members of their households shall not solicit nor accept, either directly or indirectly, any gift,
gratuity, favor, entertainment loan or any other thing of monetary value from any person who:
(1) Has, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or financial relations with the Commission,
(2) Conducts operations or activities that are regulated by the Commission or significantly affected by Commission decisions, or
(3) Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or non-performance of the employee's official duty.
(c) Employees are specifically prohibited from accepting gifts or favors from vendors, contractors, builders, realtors, tribal officials or other individuals with whom Commission employees do business. This prohibition extends to the acceptance of meals and refreshments offered by individuals conducting or seeking business with the Commission whether during duty or non-duty hours.
(d) The following circumstances are excepted from the prohibitions listed above:
(1) An employee may accept unsolicited advertising or promotional material with the name of the company imprinted, such as pencils, calendars and similar items of nominal intrinsic value.
(2) An employee may accept transportation and meals provided by a contractor in connection with official business when arrangements for Government or commercial transportation or meals are clearly impracticable and the supervisor has granted prior approval.
(3) An employee may accept an invitation extended by a relocatee to attend a housewarming, potluck, accept a meal and refreshments while traveling on the reservation, or similar social activity when circumstances would make it rude for the employee to refuse.
(4) Other circumstances may arise in which it would be to the Commission's advantage for an employee to participate in activities ordinarily prohibited. In such cases, the employee shall consult with his or her supervisor about the course of action to be followed. If prior consultation is not possible, the employee shall exercise prudent judgement and promptly inform the supervisor of the activity.
§ 700.521
Outside work and interests.
Commission employees may engage in outside work or other activity which does not create a conflict between the employee's private interests and official duties nor prevent employees from devoting their talents and energies to the Commission. An employee's outside work shall not reflect discredit upon the Commission.
(a) Employees engaged in or considering outside employment shall inform their supervisor of the work, and supply such additional details as may be required to determine whether the employment is compatible with the full and proper discharge of the employee's official duties.
(b) Similarly, employees shall inform the supervisor and request approval of other types of outside activities which may present an actual or apparent conflict of interest between the employees' official duties and their private lives. The supervisor shall determine if the outside employment or activity is prohibited by these regulations, and so inform the employee. The Designated Agency Ethics Official is available to assist supervisors in making such determinations.
(c)
Guidelines and limitations.
Outside employment or other outside activity is incompatible with the full and proper discharge of an employee's duties and responsibilities and hence is prohibited if:
(1) It would involve the violation of a Federal or State statute, a local ordinance, Executive Order, or regulation to which the employee is subject.
(2) It would be of such extent or nature as to interfere with the efficient performance of the employee's Government duties, or impair the employee's mental or physical capacity to perform them in an acceptable manner.
(3) It would tend to influence the exercise or impartial judgement on any matters coming before the employee in the course of his or her duties;
(4) It would involve work for contractors, subcontractors, realtors, tribal offices, clients or other entities and individuals which have business with or receive services from the Commission or
conduct activities which are regulated by the Commission.
(5) Involves a person or enterprise that may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of the employee's official duties.
(6) It involves the use of the employee's time during official working hours.
(7) It involves the receipt of salary or anything of monetary value from a private source as compensation for services to the Government.
(8) It involves acceptance of a fee, compensation, gift, payment of expense, or any other thing of monetary value under circumstances in which acceptance might result in, or create the appearance of, a conflict of interest.
(9) It would be of a nature which might be construed by the general public to be an official act of the Commission, or would give the impression that a business or product which is involved in the relocation project is officially endorsed or approved by the Commission.
(10) It would involve use by the employee of official facilities, e.g., office space, office machines, or supplies, or the services of other employees during duty hours.
(11) It might bring discredit upon, or cause unfavorable criticism of, the Government or the Commission or lead to relationships which might impair public confidence in the integrity of the Government or the Commission.
(12) It would involve the use of information obtained as a result of Government employment that is not freely available to the general public in that it either has not been made available to the general public or would not be made available upon request.
§ 700.523
Business relationships among employees.
Business relationships among Commission employees which take place after working hours and away from Commission premises are not matters for regulation, unless they violate the restrictions listed above.
§ 700.525
Use of government information or expertise.
(a) Commission personnel may engage in teaching, lecturing and writing about the relocation program, provided the Information which they present is public knowledge or would be made available to the public upon request.
(b) Employees shall inform their supervisors in advance of any teaching, writing, or lecturing activity which relates to the Commission operations. The Commissioners may at their discretion exercise the right of review and approval of materials to be presented.
(c) Employees must obtain supervisory approval for release of information considered confidential, and release of information not previously published as public information.
(d) Disclosure of information from records shall conform with the provisions of the Freedom of information and the Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552). An employee may not release confidential information maintained by the Commission and available to the employee because of his position as an employee of the Commission. Violation of this prohibition may result in prosecution under the terms of the Privacy Act in addition to any disciplinary penalties levied by the employee's supervisor.
(e) Commission personnel may not accept compensation for an article, speech, consultant service, or other activity if it involves the use of information obtained as the result of Government employment which is not available to the general public as described in paragraph (a) of this section, or results in an actual or appearance of conflict of interest.
(f) Unless there is a definite Commission position on a matter which is the subject of an employee's writing or speech, and the individual has been authorized by the Commissioners to present that position officially, the employee shall expressly present his or her views on the matter as his or her own and not as those of the Commission.
(g) The right of an employee to express personal opinions is respected. However, once the Commission has established policy and procedure, every employee is obligated to carry out all lawful regulations, orders, and assignments, and to support the programs of the Commission as long as they are part of recognized public policy.
(h) In dealing with the public and with relocatees, employees should
avoid issuing opinions or decisions contrary to Commission policy which can be mistaken as official Commission policy.
§ 700.527
Endorsements.
Employees are prohibited from endorsing in an official capacity business products or processes or the services of commercial firms for advertising publicity or sale purposes. Use of materials, products or services, by the Commission does not constitute official endorsement. Employees may not recommend for or against any particular builder, supplier, realtor, contractor or other person or business seeking to sell any product or service to relocatees.
§ 700.529
Negotiations for employment.
An employee shall inform the supervisor and seek the advice of the Designated Agency Ethics Official if he or she wishes to negotiate for future non-Federal employment with persons or organizations having business with the Commission if the employee is involved in making recommendations or decisions affecting those persons or organizations.
§ 700.531
Government property.
Employees shall be held accountable for Government property and monies entrusted to their individual use or in connection with their official duties. An employee has a positive duty to protect and conserve Government property and to use it economically and for official purposes only, for example:
(a) Only official documents and materials may be reproduced on Government reproduction equipment.
(b) Government vehicles may be used only on official business and may not be used for personal use or for travel to or from an employee's place of residence, unless specifically authorized or assigned by the supervisor.
(c) An employee may not use FTS to make personal phone calls at Government expense.
(d) An employee may not use Government purchase authority for personal acquisitions even though reimbursement is made.
§ 700.533
Restrictions affecting travel and travel expense reimbursement.
(a) When an employee is on officially authorized travel his or her expenses are reimbursed by the Government. The employee may not request nor accept reimbursement in cash or kind for travel expenses from any other source, even when the employee's expenses exceed the maximum Government allowance.
(b) An employee who is authorized to attend a convention, seminar, or similar meeting while on official duty, whose travel is being paid by the sponsoring association, may not also claim travel expenses from the Government.
(c) An employee may accept accommodations and expense reimbursement for attending meetings, functions, etc. in his or her private capacity and on his or her own time, provided that such acceptance does not produce an actual or apparent conflict of interest. This restriction prohibits an employee from accepting accommodations or reimbursement from anyone having or seeking business with the Commission.
(d) Commission employees traveling on official business, as well as employees traveling on personal business, may not accept the use of private airplanes, cars, or other means of transportation offered at no expense by individuals conducting or seeking business dealings with the Commission, nor from clients of the Commission.
Exception:
An employee may accept transportation and meals of modest value provided by a contractor or client in connection with official business when it is not practical to make arrangements for Government or commercial accommodations. The employee must receive prior approval of the supervisor in such case. This might occur, for example, if an employee were traveling to a remote area where no Government vehicle were available, or where there are no nearby restaurants or eating places. There is no prohibition against a contractor or private citizen traveling as a passenger in a Government vehicle driven by a Commission employee on official business, provided administrative procedures have been followed in making the travel arrangements.
§ 700.535
Nepotism.
An employee may not appoint or advocate the appointment to any position under his or her control, any individual
who is a relative of the employee. No employee shall supervise a member of his or her own family except in emergency situations.
§ 700.537
Indebtedness.
(a) Commission personnel shall pay their just financial obligations in a timely manner, especially those imposed by law, such as Federal, state, or local taxes. For the purposes of this paragraph, “just financial obligation” means one acknowledged by the employee or reduced to judgment by a court.
(b) Employees shall promptly refund any salary overpayments and excess travel advances.
(c) An employee's debts to private creditors are his or her personal concern. Any complaints or questions concerning such obligations will be referred to the employee for handling. Creditors and collectors shall not have access to employees on Agency premises during duty hours.
§ 700.539
Soliciting contributions.
(a) An employee shall not solicit a contribution from another employee for a gift to an official superior, make a donation as a gift to an official superior or accept a gift from an employee receiving less pay than himself or herself. (5 U.S.C. 7351) However, this paragraph does not preclude a voluntary gift of nominal value made on a special occasion.
(b) If authorized by the supervisor, an employee may solicit contributions for charitable causes. He or she may also be permitted to collect small donations for gifts for fellow employees for special occasions during slack moments.
§ 700.541
Fraud or false statement in a Government matter.
“Whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly or wilfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by a trick, scheme or device a material fact, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years or both (18 U.S.C. 1001).” Special attention is required in the certification of time and attendance reports, applications for employment, personnel security forms, requests for travel reimbursement, client certification documents, and purchase orders and receiving forms.
§ 700.543
Gambling.
An employee shall not sponsor or participate in any gambling activity during working hours on Government premises.
§ 700.545
Alcoholism and drug abuse.
An employee who habitually uses intoxicants to excess is subject to removal (5 U.S.C. 7352). The Relocation Commission recognizes alcoholism and drug abuse as serious and treatable illnesses. Excessive absence and poor work performance are two of the specific problems resulting from excessive use of alcohol and drugs. The Commission management will assist any employee who has such a problem to obtain professional help and will make reasonable allowance as permitted by work schedules to allow an employee approved leave for professional treatment. Anyone who seeks such assistance will be guaranteed confidential handling of his or her case. Disciplinary action will be considered if an employee rejects or ignores treatment or other appropriate assistance.
§ 700.547
Consuming intoxicants on Government premises or during duty hours.
Consuming alcohol or non-prescription drugs on agency premises, or while driving or riding in a Government vehicle, or during working hours are prohibited conduct and employees violating this regulation are subject to disciplinary action, including discharge.
§ 700.549
Employee organizations.
An employee may not knowingly be a member of an organization of Government employees that advocates the overthrow of the United States' constitutional form of government (5 U.S.C. 7311). Employees are also prohibited from striking against the Federal Government. With these restrictions, an employee has the right to form,
join, or assist lawful employee organizations. Similarly, an employee has also the right to refrain from such activity. In either case, the employee may exercise his or her right freely and without fear of penalty or reprisal and shall be protected in the exercise of such rights.
§ 700.551
Franking privilege and official stationery.
An employee is strictly prohibited from using Government franked envelopes with or without applied postage, or official letterhead stationery for personal business. (18 U.S.C. 1719)
§ 700.553
Use of official titles.
Employees are prohibited from using their official titles in conducting private business or participation in private or public group activities not concerned with official duties. Use is strictly limited to those occasions and circumstances where representation is official.
§ 700.555
Notary services.
An employee may not charge a fee for performing notarial services as part of his or her job duties (EO 977 Nov. 24, 1908).
§ 700.557
Political activity.
(a) Regulations on the political activity of Federal employees can be found in 5 U.S.C. 73. In general, the law and the rules prohibit using official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting its results, and taking an active part in partisan political management or partisan political campaigns.
(b) Special Government employees of the Commission are subject to the political activity restrictions contained in 5 U.S.C. 73 and 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607 and 608 while on an active duty status only.
(c) Pursuant to provisions of the regulations cited, employees may take part in certain local elections. However, Commission employees are restricted from taking an active role in political elections of the Navajo and Hopi tribal governments, even though such elections are not partisan in the usual meaning of the word. With respect to tribal elections, employees may not:
(1) Run for tribal elective office.
(2) Organize, direct, nor actively participate in a tribal electoral campaign.
(3) Solicit or attempt to coerce fellow employees to contribute anything of value to an individual or group engaged in tribal political activity.
(4) Circulate petitions, posters, or other political materials during working hours or on Commission premises.
(5) Engage in any other type of tribal political activity which produces a conflict of interest between the employee's job responsibilities and the political activity.
§ 700.559
Equal opportunity.
Commission personnel shall scrupulously adhere to the Commission program of equal opportunity regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, or national origin.
§ 700.561
Sexual harassment.
(a) Sexual harassment is a form of employee misconduct which undermines the integrity of the employment relationship. All employees must be allowed to work in an environment free from unsolicited and unwelcome sexual overtures. Sexual harassment is defined by the Office of Personnel Management as “deliberate or repeated unsolicited verbal comments, gestures, or physical contact of a sexual nature which are unwelcome.” Sexual harassment does not refer to occasional compliments. It refers to behavior which is not welcome, which is personally offensive and debilitates morale, interfering with the work effectiveness of its victims and their co-workers.
(b) Sexual harassment is a prohibited personnel practice when it results in discrimination for or against an employee on the basis of conduct not related to performance.
For example:
—If submission to sexual advances is a condition of employment, whether expressed in explicit or implicit terms;
—If employment decisions, such as promotion, training, salary increases, rewards, etc., are based on an employee's submission to or rejection of sexual advances;
—If the sexual conduct substantially interferes with an affected person's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.
(c) Within the Federal Government, a supervisor who uses implicit or explicit coercive sexual behavior to control, influence, or affect the career, salary or job of an employee is engaging in sexual harassment. Similarly, an employee of an agency who behaves in this manner in the process of conducting agency business is engaging in sexual harassment. Finally, any employee who participates in deliberate or repeated unsolicited verbal comments, gestures, or physical contact of a sexual nature which are unwelcome and interfere with work productivity is also engaging in sexual harassment.
(d) It is the policy of the Relocation Commission that sexual harassment is unacceptable conduct in the workplace and will not be condoned. An employee who believes that he or she is subject to sexual harassment may contact one or more of the following people within the Commission for assistance:
(1) The immediate supervisor or second level supervisor.
(2) The EEO Counselor.
(3) The agency EEO Officer.
(4) The EEO Counselor at the Agency Liaison Division of the General Services Administration.
§ 700.563
Statutory restrictions from 18 U.S.C. 207, which are applicable to former Government employees.
(a)
Restrictions applicable to all former officers and employees
—(1)
Permanent bar.
A former Government employee is permanently barred from serving as agent or attorney for anyone other than the United States before any Government office or agency on any particular matter involving specific parties in which the former officer or employee had participated personally and substantially while with the Government.
(2)
Two year bar.
A restriction similar to the one summarized above prevents a former employee for two years from representational activities on all particular matters which were actually pending under the former employee's “official responsibility” during the one-year period prior to the termination of such responsibility.
(b)
Restrictions applicable only to “senior employees.”
(1) Members of the Senior Executive Service are considered senior employees.
(2) Two-year ban on assisting in representation by personal presence. A former senior employee may not assist in the representation of another person by personal presence at an appearance before the Government on any particular matter in which the former employee personally and substantially participated while with the Government.
(3) One-year on attempt to influence former agency. A former senior employee may not represent another person or himself in attempting to influence his own former agency on a matter pending before, or of substantial interest to, such agency. Certain communications are exempted from this provision. These include communications by former senior employees who are employed by State or local governments or by certain educational or medical institutions, other exempt communications are those that are purely social or informational, communications on matters that are personal, including any expression of personal views where the former employee has no pecuniary interest, and response to a former agency's requests for information.
(c)
Implementing regulations.
(1) Detailed regulations implementing this law have been published by the Director, Office of Government Ethics (see 5 CFR part 737). The Designated Agency Ethics Official should be consulted for any additional information.
§ 700.565
Miscellaneous statutory provisions.
Commission personnel shall acquaint themselves with Federal statutes which relate to their ethical and other conducts as employees of the Commission and of the Government. The attention of Commission personnel is directed to the following statutory provisions:
(a) House Concurrent Resolution 175, 85th Congress 2d Session, 72A Stat. B12, the “Code of Ethics for Government Service.”
(b) Chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code, relating to bribery, graftm and conflicts of interest, as appropriate to the employees concerned.
(c) The prohibition against lobbying with appropriated funds (18 U.S.C. 1913).
(d) The prohibitions against disloyalty and striking (5 U.S.C. 7311, 18 U.S.C. 1918).
(e) The prohibition against the employment of a member of the Communist organization (50 U.S.C. 784).
(f) The prohibitions against (1) the disclosures of classified information (18 U.S.C. 798, 50 U.S.C. 783); and (2) the disclosure of confidential information (18 U.S.C. 1905).
(g) The provision relating to the habitual use of intoxicants to excess (5 U.S.C. 7352).
(h) The prohibition against the misuse of a Government vehicle (31 U.S.C. 638a(c)).
(i) The prohibition against the misuse of the franking privilege (18 U.S.C. 1719).
(j) The prohibition against the use of deceit in an examination or personnel action in connection with Government employment (18 U.S.C. 1917).
(k) The prohibition against fraud or false statements in a Government matter.
(l) The prohibition against mutilating or destroying a public record (18 U.S.C. 2071).
(m) The prohibition against counterfeiting and forging transportation requests (18 U.S.C. 508).
(n) The prohibitions against (1) embezzlement of Government money or property (18 U.S.C. 641); (2) failing to account for public money (18 U.S.C. 643); and (3) embezzlement of the money or property of another person in the possession of an employee by reason of his employment (18 U.S.C. 654).
(o) The prohibition against unauthorized use of documents relating to claims from or by the Government (18 U.S.C. 285).
(p) The prohibitions against political activities in subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code and 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607 and 608.
(q) The prohibition against an employee acting as the agent of a foreign principal registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (18 U.S.C. 219).

# Subpart P—Hopi Reservation Evictees

# Source:
48 FR 51771, Nov. 14, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.601
Definitions.
(a)
Hopi reservation evictees.
Hopi reservation evictees are those members of the Navajo Tribe who were evicted from the Hopi Indian Reservation as a consequence of the decision in the case of
United States v. Kabinto
(456 F. 2d 1087) (1972).
(b)
Head of household.
(1) A household is group of two or more persons who live together at a specific location, who form a unit of permanent and domestic character.
(2) The head of household is the individual who speaks on behalf of the members of the household and who is determined by the Commission to represent the household.
(3) In order to be eligible for benefits under this section, an individual must be a head of household as of the date of certification for benefits.
(4) Those single individuals who actually maintain and support themselves as of the date of certification for benefits shall be considered a head of household.
(c)
Hopi reservation.
For purposes of this subpart Hopi reservation shall mean the lands in Land Management District No. Six as defined in the September 28, 1962, Judgment in
Healing v. Jones
Civ. No. 579 pCT (d), Ariz., and shall not include the Hopi Partitioned Lands.
(d)
Equivalent assistance from federal agencies.
Housing provided for Hopi reservation evictees shall be considered equivalent assistance if it meets the Commission's standards for a decent, safe and sanitary dwelling under § 700.55 of these rules.
§ 700.603
Eligibility.
(a) Those heads of household who were members of the Navajo Tribe and were evicted from the Hopi reservation as a consequence of the decision in the
United States v. Kabinto
shall be eligible
to receive relocation assistance on a preference basis.
(b) Proof of eviction shall be determined by one of the following criteria:
(1) Inclusion on the list of defendants in the case of
United States v. Kabinto
(456 F. 2d 1087) (1972);
(2) Inclusion on the lists prepared by the BIA dated May 10, 1979, and May 21, 1979, as a result of having provided services to those heads of household.
(3) Inclusion on a list prepared by the Navajo Tribe and submitted to the Commission on January 16, 1981;
(4) Inclusion on a list prepared by the Navajo Legal Aid Service dated April 29, 1970;
(5) Other evidence furnished by the applicant which is sufficient to prove their status as evictees from the Hopi reservation, as determined by the Commission.
§ 700.605
Relocation assistance.
(a) Each eligible head of household of Hopi reservation evictees shall be entitled to receive the following assistance:
(1) Relocation advisory services as provided in § 700.135 of this part;
(2) Moving and search expenses, as provided in § 700.151 of this part;
(3) Replacement housing payments as set forth below.
(b)(1) If the head of household owns no dwelling, the Commission will make funds available to the head of household as provided in these regulations for the acquisition of a replacement home in one of the following manners:
(i) Purchase of an existing home by the head of household,
(ii) Contracting by the head of household for the construction of a home,
(iii) Participation or purchase by the head of household in a mutual help housing or other home ownership project under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 888, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 1401) or in any other federally assisted housing program.
(2) If the eligible head of household owns or is buying or building a home, the Commission will expend relocation benefits in one of the following manners:
(i) If the home is decent, safe and sanitary, but is encumbered by a mortgage, such mortgage existing as of the effective date of these regulations, the Commission may expend replacement housing benefits up to the maximum then existing replacement home benefit to accelerate to the maximum extent possible the achievement by that household of debt-free home ownership.
(ii) If the home is owned free and clear but does not meet Commission decent, safe and sanitary standards; or the home is neither owned free and clear, nor is decent, safe and sanitary, the Commission will, at its discretion either:
(A) Expend replacement home benefits for improvements to assure the home meets the Commission's decent, safe and sanitary standards, or
(B) Expend replacement home benefits for the acquisition of a replacement dwelling as if the eligible head of household or spouse did not own a home as in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) If the home is decent, safe and sanitary, and is owned free and clear, no replacement housing benefits will be paid.
(4) The amount of the replacement housing payment shall be calculated in accordance with § 700.183 of these rules except that no compensation will be paid for habitation and improvements.
(5) The determination of whether the head of household of Hopi reservation evictees currently occupies a decent, safe and sanitary dwelling shall be made in accordance with § 700.55 of these rules.
(C) If the head of household has received equivalent assistance from other federal agencies as defined in § 700.601(d), they shall not be entitled to additional assistance from the Commission.
§ 700.607
Dual eligibility.
Those individuals who moved from the Hopi reservation following eviction to the Hopi partitioned Lands and who are eligible to receive benefits under the general regulations shall not receive benefits under this subpart but shall receive benefits under the general regulations on a preferential basis.
§ 700.609
Appeals.
Appeals of eligibility, hearings and administrative review (appeals) will be
administered under subpart L of this part.
§ 700.611
Application deadline.
The deadline for receipt of applications for benefits under this subpart shall be 120 days following publication of these final rules.

# Subpart Q—New Lands Grazing

# Source:
56 FR 13397, Apr. 2, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.701
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means Pub. L. 93-531 (88 Sat. 1712, 25 U.S.C. 640
et. seq.
) as amended by Pub. L. 96-305 and Pub. L. 100-666.
(b)
New Lands
means the land acquired for the use of relocatees under the authority of Pub. L. 96-305, 25 U.S.C. 640d-10. These lands include the 215,000 acres of lands acquired by the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission and added to the Navajo Reservation and 150,000 acres of private lands previously owned by the Navajo Nation in fee and taken in trust by the United States pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.
(c)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation in Flagstaff, Arizona. Reference to approval or other action by the Commissioner will also include approval or other action by another Federal officer under delegated authority from the Commissioner.
(d)
Tribe
means the Navajo Nation.
(e)
Range unit
means a tract of range land designated as a management unit for administration of grazing.
(f)
Range Management Plan
means a land use plan for a specific range unit that will provide for a sustained forage production consistent with soil, watershed, wildlife, and other values.
(g)
Stocking rate
means the authorized stocking rate by range unit as determined by the Commissioner. The stocking rate shall be based on forage production, range utilization, land management applications being applied, and range improvements in place to achieve uniformity of grazing under sustained yield management principles.
(h)
Grazing permit
means a revocable privilege granted in writing limited to entering on and utilizing forage by domestic livestock on a specified tract of land. The term, as used herein, shall include written authorization issued to enable the crossing or trailing of domestic livestock across specified tracts or range.
(i)
Animal unit
(AU) means one adult cow with unweaned calf by her side or equivalent thereof based on comparative forage consumption. Accepted conversion factors are: Sheep and Goats—one ewe, doe, buck, or ram equals 0.25 AU. Horses and Mules—one horse, mule, donkey or burro equals 1.25 AU.
(j)
Sheep unit
means one ewe with lamb at side or a doe goat with kid.
(k)
SUYL
means one sheep unit grazed yearlong.
(l)
HPL
means the area partitioned to the Hopi Tribe pursuant to Pub. L. 93-531 known as the Hopi Partitioned Land.
§ 700.703
Authority.
It is within the authority of the Commissioner on Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to administer the New Lands added to the Navajo Reservation pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 6-10(d)-10.
§ 700.705
Objectives.
It is the purpose of the regulations in this part to aid the Navajo Indians in achievement of the following objectives:
(a) The preservation of the forage, the land, and the water resources on the New Lands.
(b) The resettlement of Navajo Indians physically residing on the HPL to the New Lands.
§ 700.707
Regulations; scope.
The grazing regulations in this part apply to the New Lands within the boundaries of the Navajo Reservation held in trust by the United States for the Navajo Tribe which lands were added to the Navajo Reservation pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640(d)-10; 25 CFR parts 166 and 167 are not applicable to the New Lands.
§ 700.709
Grazing privileges.
(a) A list of permittees eligible to receive grazing permits is kept at the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation in Flagstaff, Arizona. This list is
composed of individuals eligible for New Lands grazing permits who:
(1) Have a current HPL grazing permit, or have had an HPL permit issued since 1980, or are current HPL residents and can show documentation of a past grazing permit issued in their name for grazing on an area now on the HPL, and
(2) Who have not received relocation benefits under Pub. L. 93-531, and who relocate from the HPL on to a New Lands range unit. Individuals on this list will receive a commitment that a permit will be issued to them.
(b) If such persons cannot relocate immediately because their chosen relocation site is not ready for occupancy, the Office will issue a commitment to them that a grazing permit will be granted upon their relocation.
(c) If such persons are notified by the Office that their relocation site is ready for occupancy and they fail or refuse to make timely arrangements to relocate when requested by the Office to do so, the commitment may be withdrawn.
(d) Persons on this list must file an application for a New Lands Grazing Permit. The Commissioner will determine when the application period will close and will publish notice of that date. After the close of the period for application, the Commissioner, in his sole discretion, may issue permits to individuals if it is determined that to do so will facilitate relocation.
(e) Initial determinations on eligibility for grazing permits will be made by the Range Supervisor.
[56 FR 13397, Apr. 2, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 24363, June 9, 1992]
§ 700.711
Grazing permits.
(a) All livestock grazed on the New Lands must be covered by a grazing permit authorized and issued by the Commissioner on Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation.
(b) Permit holders must:
(1) Be enrolled Navajo Tribal members,
(2) Be over 18 years of age,
(3) Maintain a permanent residency on the New Lands Range Unit of permit issue, and
(4) Own livestock which graze on the range unit of permit issue.
(c) Permits will be issued for a base of 80 SUYL (20 AU) and may not be divided or transferred for less than 80 SUYL.
(d)(1) Temporary seasonal grazing permits for periods not to exceed one year may be issued to permittees:
(i) To use extra forage made available under rotation grazing management as regulated by a range unit management plan,
(ii) To use forage created by unusually favorable climatic conditions,
(iii) To allow use of range while term permits are held in suspension under § 700.715(d).
(2) These temporary permits may be reissued prior to termination provided:
(i) The permittee is managing grazing in compliance with grazing regulations,
(ii) Livestock grazing is in compliance with the cooperative range unit range management plan, and
(iii) Forage is available on the range to sustain the livestock authorized under the temporary permit.
§ 700.713
Tenure of grazing permits.
(a) All active regular grazing permits shall be for five years and shall be automatically reissued for another five-year period provided the permittee is not in violation of § 700.711 or § 700.715 or § 700.719 or § 700.723 or § 700.725 of the regulations. Permits will initially be issued with an ending date of October 31 of the fifth year following the date of initial issuance.
(b) Amendments to these regulations extending or limiting the tenure of grazing permits are applicable and become a condition of all previously granted permits.
§ 700.715
Assignment, modification, and cancellation of grazing permits.
(a) Grazing permits may be assigned or transferred with the written consent of the contracting parties. The Commissioner will issue a new permit provided the transferee meets qualifications under § 700.711(b).
(b) Temporary permits issued under § 700.711(d) are directly tied to the term permit and may be transferred with the term permit if the transferee signs the range unit management plan which
provides the management for continuation of the temporary grazing permit. Temporary permits will not be transferred and shall be null and void if the term permit transferee does not sign the management plan agreeing to practice conservation management.
(c) Grazing permits may be assigned for transfer through a notarized document to an heir who meets the qualifications for a grazing permit under § 700.711.
(d) Grazing permits must be transferred in whole to a single transferee—the transferor relinquishing all grazing privileges at the time of transfer.
(e) The Commissioner may revoke or withdraw all or any part of a grazing permit by cancellation or modification on a 30 day written notice for violation of the permit or of the management plan, non-payment of grazing fees, violation of these regulations, or because of the termination of the trust status of the permitted land.
§ 700.717
Stocking rate.
The Commissioner will determine livestock carrying capacity for each range unit and set the stocking rate and adjust that rate as conditions warrant. The Commissioner may consult with the Tribe when making adjustments to the stocking rate.
§ 700.719
Establishment of grazing fees.
The Commissioner may establish a minimum acceptable grazing fee per SUYL. The Commissioner may consult with the Tribe prior to establishing fees.
§ 700.721
Range management plans.
The Commissioner (or his designee) and the permittees of each range unit will meet as a group and develop a Range Management Plan for the common use of the range unit. The plan will include but will not be limited to the following:
(a) Goals for improving vegetative productivity.
(b) Incentives for carrying out the goals.
(c) Stocking rate.
(d) Record of brands of livestock authorized to graze on the range unit.
(e) Grazing plan and schedule.
(f) Range monitoring schedule.
(g) Wildlife management.
(h) Needs assessment for range and livestock improvements.
(i) Scheduling for operation and maintenance of existing range improvements.
§ 700.722
Grazing associations.
(a) The Commissioner may recognize, cooperate with, and assist range unit livestock associations in the management of livestock and range resources.
(b) These associations will provide the means for the members:
(1) To jointly manage their permitted livestock and the range resources,
(2) To meet jointly with the ONHIR range staff to discuss and formulate range management plans,
(3) To express their wishes through designated officers or committees,
(4) To share costs for handling livestock, construction of range improvements, fence and livestock facilities maintenance, and other land or livestock improvement projects agreed on, and
(5) To formulate association special rules needed to assure cooperation and resource management.
(c) The requirements for receiving recognition by the Commissioner are:
(1) The members of the association must be grazing permittees and constitute a majority of the grazing permittees on the range unit involved.
(2) The officers of the association must be elected by a majority of the association members or of a quorum as specified by the association's constitution and bylaws.
(3) The officers other than secretary and treasurer must be grazing permittees on the range unit involved.
(4) The association's activities must be governed by a constitution and bylaws acceptable to the Commissioner and signed by him.
(5) The association's constitution and bylaws must recognize conservation management goals and the need to follow a range unit management plan.
(d) The Commissioner may withdraw his recognition of the association whenever:
(1) The majority of the grazing permittees request that the association be dissolved.
(2) The association becomes inactive and does not meet in annual or special meetings during a consecutive two-year period.
(e) A recognized association may hold a grazing permit to benefit its members according to the rules of the association constitution and bylaws. All of the association's livestock will be run under an association brand properly registered with the Navajo Tribe and the ONHIR.
(f) Associations may acquire permits from consenting permittees on the range unit in accordance with § 700.711 and may assign or transfer these permits in accordance with § 700.715.
§ 700.723
Control of livestock disease and parasites.
Whenever livestock within the New Lands become infected with contagious or infectious disease or parasites or have been exposed thereto, such livestock must be treated and the movement thereof restricted by the responsible permittee in accordance with applicable laws.
§ 700.725
Livestock trespass.
The following acts are prohibited:
(a) The grazing of livestock upon, or driving of livestock across, any of the New Lands without a current approved grazing or crossing permit.
(b) The grazing of livestock upon an area specifically rested from the grazing of livestock according to the range unit Range Management Plan.
(c) The grazing of livestock upon any land withdrawn from use for grazing to protect it from damage after receipt of appropriate notice from the Commissioner.
(d) The grazing of livestock in excess of those numbers authorized on the livestock grazing permit approved by the Commissioner.
(e) Grazing of livestock whose brand is not recorded in the range unit Range Management Plan.
The owner of any livestock grazing in trespass on the New Lands is liable to a civil penalty of $1 and 3¢ per head per day for each cow, bull, horse, mule or donkey and 26¢ per head per day for each sheep or goat in trespass and a reasonable value for damages to property injured or destroyed. The Commissioner may take appropriate action to collect all such penalties and damages and seek injunctive relief when appropriate. All payments for such penalties and damages shall be paid to the Commissioner for use as a range improvement fund.
[56 FR 13397, Apr. 2, 1991, as amended at 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 700.727
Impoundment and disposal of unauthorized livestock.
Unauthorized livestock within any range unit of the New Lands which are not removed therefrom within the periods prescribed by the regulation will be impounded and disposed of by the Commissioner as provided herein.
(a) When the Commissioner determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring, and has definite knowledge of the kind of unauthorized livestock and knows the name and address of the owners, the owner shall be given written notice and a 10 day period shall be allowed for the permittee to solve the unauthorized use without penalty. If after this 10 day period the unauthorized use is not resolved, such livestock may be impounded at any time after five days after written Notice of Intent to Impound Unauthorized Livestock is mailed by certified mail or personally delivered to such owners or their agent.
(b) When the Commissioner determines that unauthorized livestock use is occurring, but does not have complete knowledge of the number and class of livestock, or if the name and address of the owner thereof are unknown, such livestock may be impounded at anytime after 15 days after the date a General Notice of Intent to Impound Unauthorized Livestock is first published in a local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts.
(c) Unauthorized livestock on the New Lands which are owned by persons given notice under paragraph (a) of this section and any unauthorized livestock in areas for which notice has been posted and published under paragraph (b) of this section, will be impounded without further notice anytime within the 12-month period immediately following the effective date of the notice.
(d) Following the impoundment of unauthorized livestock, a notice of sale of impounded livestock or unauthorized livestock will be published in a local newspaper, posted at the nearest chapter house, and in one or more local trading posts. The notice will describe the livestock and specify the date, time, and place of sale. The date set shall be at least five days after the publication and posting of such notice.
(e) The owners or their agent may redeem the livestock anytime before the time set for the sale by submitting proof of ownership and paying for all expenses incurred in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock and any trespass fees and/or damages caused by the animals.
(f) Livestock erroneously impounded shall be returned to the rightful owner, and all expenses accruing thereto shall be waived.
(g) If the livestock are not redeemed before the time fixed for their sale, they shall be sold at public sale to the highest bidder. When livestock are sold pursuant to this regulation, the Commissioner shall furnish the buyer a bill of sale or other written instrument evidencing the sale.
(h) The proceeds of any sale of impounded livestock shall be applied as follows:
(1) To the payment of all expenses incurred by the United States in gathering, impounding, and feeding or pasturing the livestock.
(2) Trespass penalties assessed pursuant to § 700.725 shall be paid to a separate account to be administered by the Commissioner for use as a range improvement fund for the New Lands.
(3) Any remaining amount shall be paid over to the owner of said livestock upon his submitting proof of ownership.
Any proceeds remaining after payment of the first and second items noted above, not claimed within one year from the date of sale, will be credited to the United States.
§ 700.729
Amendments.
These regulations may be amended or superseded as needed.
§ 700.731
Appeals.
Persons who have filed a claim for a grazing permit and whose claim has been denied by the Range Supervisor may appeal to the Commissioner. Appeals must be made in writing and must be received by the Office not more than 30 days after the date the claim was denied. The appeal shall state with specificity why the decision being appealed is in error and shall incorporate all supporting documents. The Commissioner will issue a decision affirming or reversing the decision of the Range Supervisor within 60 days of receipt of the appeal. Such decision will constitute final action by the Office and will be communicated to the appellant by certified mail.

# Subpart R—Protection of Archaeological Resources

# Source:
62 FR 35078, June 30, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 700.801
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this subpart implement provisions of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa-11) by establishing the uniform definitions, standards, and procedures to be followed by the O.N.H.I.R. New Lands Manager in providing protection for archaeological resources, located on the New Lands. The regulations enable Federal land managers to protect archaeological resources, taking into consideration provisions of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (92 Stat. 469; 43 U.S.C. 1996), through permits authorizing excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources, through civil penalties for unauthorized excavation and/or removal, through provisions for the preservation of archaeological resource collections and data, and through provisions for ensuring confidentiality of information about archaeological resources.
(b) The regulations in this part do not impose any new restrictions on activities permitted under other laws, authorities, and regulations relating to mining, mineral leasing, reclamation, and other multiple uses of the public lands.
§ 700.803
Authority.
The regulations in this part are promulgated pursuant to section 10(b) of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470ii). Section 10(b) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 470ii) provides that each Federal land manager shall promulgate such rules and regulations, consistent with the uniform rules and regulations in this part, as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of the Act.
§ 700.805
Definitions.
As used for purposes of this part:
(a)
Act
means the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470-aa-11).
(b)
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities which are at least 100 years of age, and which are of archaeological interest.
(1)
Of archaeological interest
means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation and explanation.
(2)
Material remains
means physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location or context in which such evidence is situated.
(3) The following classes of material remains (and illustrative examples), if they are at least 100 years of age, are of archaeological interest and shall be considered archaeological resources unless determined otherwise pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section.
(i) Surface or subsurface structures, shelters, facilities, or features (including, but not limited to, domestic structures, storage structures, cooking structures, ceremonial structures, artificial mounds, earthworks, fortifications, canals, reservoirs, horticultural/agricultural gardens or fields, bedrock mortars, or grinding surfaces, rock alignments, cairns, trails, borrow pits, cooking pits, refuse pits, burial pits, or graves, hearths, kilns, post molds, wall trenches, middens);
(ii) Surface or subsurface artifact concentrations or scatters;
(iii) Whole or fragmentary tools, implements, containers, weapons, and weapon projectiles, clothing, and ornaments (including, but not limited to pottery and other ceramics, cordage, basketry and other weaving, bottles and other glasseware, bone, ivory, shell, metal, wood, hide, feathers, pigments, and flaked ground or pecked stone);
(iv) By products, waste products, or debris resulting from manufacture or use of human-made or natural materials;
(v) Organic waste (including, but not limited to vegetal and animal remains, coprolites);
(vi) Human remains (including, but not limited to, bone, teeth, mummified flesh, burials, cremations);
(vii) Rock carvings, rock paintings, intaglios, and other works of artistic or symbolic representation;
(viii) Rockshelters and caves or portions thereof containing any of the above material remains described in this paragraph (a);
(ix) All portions of shipwrecks (including, but not limited to, armaments, apparel, tackle, cargo);
(x) Any portion or piece of any material remains described in this paragraph (a).
(4) The following material remains shall not be considered of archaeological interest, and shall not be considered to be archaeological resources for purposes of the Act and this part, unless found in a direct physical relationship with archaeological resources as defined in this section:
(i) Paleontological remains;
(ii) Coins, bullets, and unworked minerals and rocks.
(5) The Federal Land Manager may determine that certain material remains, in specified areas under the Federal Land Manager's jurisdiction and under specified circumstances, are not or are no longer of archaeological interest and are not to be considered archaeological resources under this part. Any determination made pursuant to this paragraph (a)(5) shall be documented. Such determination shall
in no way affect the Federal Land Manager's obligations under other applicable laws or regulations. Prior to making a determination that material remains are not or are no longer archaeological resources, the Federal Land Manager shall consult with the Navajo Nation to obtain their concurrences.
(c)
Arrowhead
means any projectile point which appears to have been designed for use with an arrow.
(d)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation. Reference to approval of other action by the Commissioner will also include approval or other action by another Federal Officer under delegated authority from the Commissioner.
(e)
Federal Land Manager
means: With respect to the New Lands, the Commissioner of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, having primary management authority over such lands, including persons to whom such management authority has been officially delegated.
(f)
Indian tribe
or
Tribe
means the Navajo Nation.
(g)
New Lands
means the land acquired for the use of relocatees under the authority of Pub. L. 96-305, 25 U.S.C., 640(d)-10. These lands include the 250,000 acres of land acquired by the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission and added to the Navajo Reservation, 150,000 acres of private lands previously owned by the Navajo Nation in fee and taken in trust by the United States pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10 and up to 35,000 acres of land in the State of New Mexico to be acquired and added to the Navajo Reservation.
(h)
Office
means the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation.
(i)
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, trust, institution, association, or any other private entity, or any officer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of the United States, or of any Indian tribe, or of any State or political subdivision thereof.
(j)
State
means any of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
(k)
Tribe
means the Navajo Nation.
§ 700.807
Prohibited Acts.
(a) No person may excavate, remove, damage or otherwise alter or deface any archaeological resource located on the New Lands unless such activity is pursuant to a permit issued under § 700.815 or exempted by § 700.809(b) of this part.
(b) No person may sell, purchase, exchange, transport, or receive any archaeological resource, if such resource was excavated or removed in violation of:
(1) The prohibitions contained in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Any provision, rule, regulation, ordinance, or permit in effect under any other provision of Federal law.
§ 700.809
Permit requirements and exceptions.
(a) Any person proposing to excavate and/or remove archaeological resources from the New Lands, and to carry out activities associated with such excavation and/or removal, shall apply to the Federal Land Manager for a permit for the proposed work, and shall not begin the proposed work until a permit has been issued. The Federal Land Manager may issue a permit to any qualified person, subject to appropriate terms and conditions, provided that the person applying for a permit meets conditions in § 700.815(a) of this part.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) No permit shall be required under this part for any person conducting activities on the New Lands under other permits leases, licenses, or entitlements for use, when those activities are exclusively for purposes other than the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources, even though those activities might incidentally result in the disturbance of archaeological resources. General earth-moving excavation conducted under a permit or other authorization shall not be construed to mean excavation and/or removal as used in this part. This exception does not, however, affect the Federal Land Manager's responsibility to comply with other authorities which protect archaeological resources prior to approving permits, leases, licenses or entitlements for use; any excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources required for compliance with
those authorities shall be conducted in accordance with the permit requirements of this part.
(2) No permit shall be required under this part for any person collecting for private purposes any rock, coin, bullet, or mineral which is not an archaeological resource as defined in this part, provided that such collecting does not result in disturbance of any archaeological resource.
(3) No permit shall be required under this part or under section 3 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 432), for the excavation or removal by the Navajo Nation or member thereof of any archaeological resource located on the New Lands, except that in the absence of tribal law regulating the excavation or removal of archaeological resources, an individual tribal member shall be required to obtain a permit under this part;
(4) No permit shall be required under this part for any person to carry out any archaeological activity authorized by a permit issued under section 3 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 432), before the enactment of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979. Such permit shall remain in effect according to its terms and conditions until expiration.
(5) No permit shall be required under section 3 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 432) for any archaeological work for which a permit is issued under this part.
(c) Persons carrying out official agency duties under the Federal Land Manager's direction, associated with the management of archaeological resources, need not follow the permit application procedures of § 700.811. However, the Federal Land Manager shall insure that provisions of §§ 700.815 and 700.817 have been met by other documented means and that any official duties which might result in harm to or destruction of any Indian tribal religious or cultural site, as determined by the Federal Land Manager, have been the subject of consideration.
(d) Upon the written request of the Governor of any State, on behalf of the State or its educational institutions, the Federal Land Manager with the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, shall issue a permit, subject to the provisions of §§ 700.809(b)(5), 700.815(a) (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7), 700.817, 700.819, 700.823, 700.825(a), to such Governor or to such designee as the Governor deems qualified to carry out the intent of the Act, for purposes of conducting archaeological research, excavating, and/or removing archaeological resources, and safeguarding and preserving any materials and data collected in a university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution approved by the Federal Land Manager.
(e) Under other statutory, regulatory, or administrative authorities governing the use of the New Lands, authorizations may be required for activities which do not require a permit under this part. Any person wishing to conduct on the New Lands any activity related to but believed to fall outside the scope of this part should consult with the Federal Land Manager, for the purpose of determining whether any authorization is required, prior to beginning such activities.
§ 700.811
Application for permits and information collection.
(a) Any person may apply to the appropriate Federal Land Manager for a permit to excavate and/or remove archaeological resources from the New Lands and to carry out activities associated with such excavation and/or removal.
(b) Each application for a permit shall include:
(1) The nature and extent of the work proposed, including how and why it is proposed to be conducted, proposed time of performance, location maps, and proposed outlet for public written dissemination of the results.
(2) The name and address of the individual(s) proposed to be responsible for conducting the work, institutional affiliation, if any, and evidence of education, training and experience in accord with the minimal qualifications listed in § 700.815(a).
(3) The name and address of the individual(s), if different from the individual(s) named in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, proposed to be responsible for carrying out the terms and conditions of the permit.
(4) Evidence of the applicant's ability to initiate, conduct and complete the
proposed work, including evidence of logistical support and laboratory facilities.
(5) Where the application is for the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources on the New Lands, the name of the university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution in which the applicant proposes to store copies of records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work, and all collections in the event the Indian owners do not wish to take custody or otherwise dispose of the archaeological resources. Applicants shall submit written certification, signed by an authorized official of the institution, of willingness to assume curatorial responsibility for the collections, if applicable, and/or the records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work.
(c) The Federal Land Manager may require additional information, pertinent to land management responsibilities, to be included in the application for permit and shall so inform the applicant.
(d) Paperwork Reduction Act. The purpose of the information collection under § 700.811 is to meet statutory and administrative requirements in the public interest. The information will be used to assist Federal land managers in determining that applicants for permits are qualified, that the work proposed would further archaeological knowledge, that archaeological resources and associated records and data will be properly preserved, and that the permitted activity would not conflict with the management of the New Lands involved. Response to the information requirement is necessary in order for an applicant to obtain a benefit.
§ 700.813
Notification to Indian tribes of possible harm to, or destruction of, sites on public lands having religious or cultural importance.
(a) If the issuance of a permit under this part may result in harm to, or destruction of, any Indian tribal religious or cultural site on public lands, as determined by the Federal land manager, at least 30 days before issuing such permit the Federal land manager shall notify any Indian tribe which may consider the site as having religious or cultural importance. Such notice shall not be deemed a disclosure to the public for purposes of section 9 of the Act.
(1) Notice by the Federal land manager to any Indian tribe shall be sent to the chief executive officer or other designated official of the tribe. Indian tribes are encouraged to designate a tribal official to be the focal point for any notification and discussion between the tribe and the Federal land manager.
(2) The Federal land manager may provide notice to any other Native American group that is known by the Federal land manager to consider sites potentially affected as being of religious or cultural importance.
(3) Upon request during the 30-day period, the Federal land manager may meet with official representatives of any Indian tribe or group to discuss their interests, including ways to avoid or mitigate potential harm or destruction such as excluding sites from the permit area. Any mitigation measures which are adopted shall be incorporated into the terms and conditions of the permit under § 700.817.
(4) When the Federal land manager determines that a permit applied for under this part must be issued immediately because of an imminent threat or loss or destruction of an archaeological resource, the Federal land manager shall so notify the appropriate tribe.
(b)(1) In order to identify sites of religious or cultural importance, the Federal land manager shall seek to identify all Indian tribes having aboriginal or historic ties to the lands under the Federal land manager's jurisdiction and seek to determine, from the chief executive officer or other designated official of any such tribe, the location and nature of specific sites of religious or cultural importance so that such information may be on file for land management purposes. Information on sites eligible for or included in the National Register of Historic Places may be withheld from public disclosure pursuant to section 304 of the Act of October 15, 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470w-3).
(2) If the Federal Land Manager becomes aware of a Native American
group that is not an Indian tribe as defined in this part but has aboriginal or historic ties to public lands under the Federal land manager's jurisdiction, the Federal land manager may seek to communicate with official representatives of that group to obtain information on sites they may consider to be of religious or cultural importance.
(3) The Federal land manager may enter into agreement with any Indian tribe or other Native American group for determining locations for which such tribe or group wishes to receive notice under this section.
§ 700.815
Issuance of permits.
(a) The Federal land manager may issue a permit, for a specified period of time appropriate to the work to be conducted, upon determining that:
(1) The applicant is appropriately qualified, as evidenced by training, education, and/or experience, and possesses demonstrable competence in archaeological theory and methods, and in collecting, handling, analyzing, evaluating, and reporting archaeological data, relative to the type and scope of the work proposed, and also meets the following minimum qualifications:
(i) A graduate degree in anthropology or archaeology, or equivalent training and experience;
(ii) The demonstrated ability to plan, equip, staff, organize, and supervise activity of the type and scope proposed;
(iii) The demonstrated ability to carry research to completion, as evidenced by timely completion of theses, research reports, or similar documents;
(iv) Completion of at least 16 months of professional experience and/or specialized training in archaeological field, laboratory, or library research, administration, or management, including at least 4 months experience and/or specialized training in the kind of activity the individual proposes to conduct under authority of the permit; and
(v) Applicants proposing to engage in historical archaeology should have at least one year of experience in research concerning archaelogoical resources of the historic period. Applicants proposing to engage in prehistoric archaeology should have had at least one year of experience in research concerning archaeological resources of the prehistoric period.
(2) The proposed work is to be undertaken for the purpose of furthering archaeological knowledge in the public interest, which may include but need not be limited to, scientific or scholarly research, and preservation of archaeological data;
(3) The proposed work, including time, scope, location, and purpose, is not inconsistent with any management plan or established policy, objectives, or requirements applicable to the management of the New Lands;
(4) Where the proposed work consists of archaeological survey and/or data recovery undertaken in accordance with other approved uses of the New Lands, and the proposed work has been agreed to in writing by the Federal Land Manager, pursuant to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470f), paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section shall be deemed satisfied by the prior approval.
(5) Written consent has been obtained, for work proposed on the New Lands, from the Indian land owner and the Navajo Nation which is the Indian Tribe having jurisdiction.
(6) Evidence is submitted to the Federal Land Manager that any university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution proposed in the application as the repository possesses adequate curatorial capability for safeguarding and preserving the archaeological resources and all associated records; and
(7) The applicant has certified that, not later than 90 days after the date the final report is submitted to the Federal Land Manger, the following will be delivered to the appropriate official of the approved university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution, which shall be named in the permit;
(i) All artifacts, samples, collections, and copies of records, data, photographs, and other documents resulting from work conducted under the requested permit.
(b) When the area of the proposed work would cross jurisdictional boundaries, so that permit applications must be submitted to more than one Federal
land manager, the Federal land managers shall coordinate the review and evaluation of applications and the issuance of permits.
§ 700.817
Terms and conditions of permits.
(a) In all permits issued, the Federal Land Manager shall specify:
(1) The nature and extent of work allowed and required under the permit, including the time, duration, scope, location and purpose of the work;
(2) The name of the individual(s) responsible for conducting the work and, if different, the name of the individual(s) responsible for carrying out the terms and conditions of the permit;
(3) The name of any university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution in which any collected materials and data shall be deposited; and
(4) Reporting requirements.
(b) The Federal Land Manager may specify such terms and conditions as deemed necessary, consistent with this part, to protect public safety and other values and/or resources, to secure work areas to safeguard other legitimate land uses, and to limit activities incidental to work authorized under a permit.
(c) The Federal Land Manager shall include in permits issued for archaeological work on the New Lands such terms and conditions as may be requested by the Indian landowner and the Navajo Nation.
(d) Initiation of work or other activities under the authority of a permit signifies the permittee's acceptance of the terms and conditions of the permit.
(e) The permittee shall not be released from requirements of a permit until all outstanding obligations have been satisfied, whether or not the term of the permit has expired.
(f) The permittee may request that the Federal Land Manager extend or modify a permit.
(g) The permittee's performance under any permit issued for a period greater than 1 year shall be subject to review by the Federal Land Manager, at least annually.
§ 700.819
Suspension and revocation of permits.
(a)
Suspension or revocation for cause.
(1) The Federal Land Manager may suspend a permit issued pursuant to this part upon determining that the permittee has failed to meet any of the terms and conditions of the permit or has violated any prohibition of the Act or § 700.807. The Federal Land Manager shall provide written notice to the permittee of suspension, the cause thereof, and the requirements which must be met before the suspension will be removed.
(2) The Federal Land Manager may revoke a permit upon assessment of a civil penalty under § 700.831 upon the permittee's conviction under section 6 of the Act, or upon determining that the permittee has failed after notice under this section to correct the situation which led to suspension of the permit.
(b)
Suspension or revocation for management purposes.
The Federal Land Manager may suspend or revoke a permit without liability to the United States, its agents, or employees when continuation of work under the permit would be in conflict with management requirements not in effect when the permit was issued. The Federal Land Manager shall provide written notice to the permittee stating the nature of and basis for the suspension or revocation.
§ 700.821
Appeals relating to permits.
Any affected person may appeal permit issuance, denial of permit issuance, suspension, revocation, and terms and conditions of a permit through existing administrative appeal procedures, or through procedures which may be established by the Federal Land Manager pursuant to section 10(b) of the Act and this part.
§ 700.823
Permit reviews and disputes.
(a) Any affected person disputing the decision of the Federal Land Manager with respect to the issuance or denial of a permit, the inclusion of specific terms and conditions in a permit, or the modification, suspension, or revocation or a permit may request the Federal Land Manager to review the disputed decision and may request a
conference to discuss the decision and its basis.
(b) Any disputant unsatisfied with the higher level review, and desiring to appeal the decision, pursuant to § 700.821 of this part, should consult with the Federal Land Manager regarding the existence of published appeal procedures. In the absence of published appeal procedures, the review by the head of the Office will constitute the final decision.
(c) Any affected person may request a review by the Department of Interior Consulting Archaeologist of any professional issues involved in a permitting decision, such as professional qualifications, research design, or other professional archaeological matters. The Departmental Consulting Archaeologist shall make a final professional recommendation to the head of the Office. The head of the Office will consider the recommendation, but may reject it, in whole or in part, for good cause. This request should be in writing and should state the reasons for the request.
§ 700.825
Relationship to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act.
Issuance of a permit in accordance with the Act and this part does not constitute an undertaking requiring compliance with section 106 of the Act of October 15, 1996 (16 U.S.C. 470f). However, the mere issuance of such a permit does not excuse the Federal Land Manager from compliance with section 106 where otherwise required.
§ 700.827
Custody of Archaeological resources.
(a) Archaeological resources excavated or removed from the New Lands remain the property of the Navajo Nation.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 700.829
Determination of archaeological or commercial value and cost of restoration and repair.
(a)
Archaeological value.
For purposes of this part, the archaeological value of any archaeological resource involved in a violation of the prohibitions in § 700.807 of this part or conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this part shall be the value of the information associated with the archaeological resource. This value shall be appraised in terms of the costs of the retrieval of the scientific information which would have been obtained prior to the violation. These costs may include, but need not be limited to, the cost of preparing a research design, conducting filed work, carrying out laboratory analysis, and preparing reports as would be necessary to realize the information potential.
(b)
Commercial value.
For purposes of this part, the commercial value of any archaeological resource involved in a violation of the prohibitions in § 700.807 of this part or conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this part shall be for its fair market value. Where the violation has resulted in damage to the archaeological resource, the fair market value should be determined using the condition of the archaeological resource prior to the violation to the extent that its prior condition can be ascertained.
(c)
Cost of restoration and repair.
For purposes of this part, the cost of restoration and repair of archaeological resources damages as a result of a violation or prohibitions or conditions pursuant to this part, shall be the sum of the costs already incurred for emergency restoration or repair work, plus those costs projected to be necessary to complete restoration and repair, which may include, but need not be limited to, the costs of the following.
(1) Reconstruction of the archaeological resource;
(2) Stabilization of the archaeological resource;
(3) Ground contour reconstruction and surface stabilization;
(4) Research necessary to carry out reconstruction or stabilization;
(5) Physical barriers or other protective devices, necessitated by the disturbance of the archaeological resource, to protect it from further disturbance;
(6) Examination and analysis of the archaeological resource including recording remaining archaeological information, where necessitated by disturbance, in order to salvage remaining values which cannot be otherwise conserved;
(7) Reinterment of human remains in accordance with Pub. L. 101-601, the Native American Grave Protection and Repatriation Act.
(8) Preparation of reports relating to any of the above activities.
§ 700.831
Assessment of civil penalties.
(a) The Federal Land Manager may assess a civil penalty against any person who has violated any prohibition contained in § 700.807 or who has violated any term or condition included in a permit issued in accordance with the Act and this part.
(b)
Notice of violation.
The Federal Land Manager shall serve a notice of violation upon any person believed to be subject to a civil penalty, either in person or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). The Federal Land Manager shall include in the notice:
(1) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;
(2) A specific reference to the provision(s) of this part or to a permit issued pursuant to this part allegedly violated;
(3) The amount of penalty proposed to be assessed, including any initial proposal to mitigate or remit where appropriate, or a statement that notice of the proposed penalty amount will be served after the damages associated with the alleged violation have been ascertained;
(4) Notification of the right to file a petition for relief pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, or to await the Federal Land Manager's notice of assessment, and to request a hearing in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. The notice shall also inform the person of the right to seek judicial review of any final administrative decision assessing a civil penalty.
(c) The person served with a notice of violation shall have 45 calendar days from the date of its service (or the date of service of a proposed penalty amount, if later) in which to respond. During this time the person may:
(1) Seek informal discussions with the Federal Land Manager;
(2) File a petition for relief in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) Take no action and await the Federal Land Manger's notice of assessment;
(4) Accept in writing or by payment the proposed penalty, or any mitigation or remission offered in the notice. Acceptance of the proposed penalty or mitigation or remission shall be deemed a waiver of the notice of assessment and of the right to request a hearing under paragraph (g) of this section.
(d)
Petition for relief.
The person served with a notice of violation may request that no penalty be assessed or that the amount be reduced, by filing a petition for relief with the Federal Land Manager within 45 calendar days of the date of service of the notice of violation (or of a proposed penalty amount, if later.) The petition shall be in writing and signed by the person served with the notice of violation. If the person is a corporation, the petition must be signed by an officer authorized to sign such documents. The petition shall set forth in full the legal or factual basis for the requested relief.
(e)
Assessment of penalty.
(1) The Federal Land Manager shall assess a civil penalty upon expiration of the period for filing a petition for relief, upon completion of review of any petition filed, or upon completion or informal discussions, whichever is later.
(2) The Federal Land Manager shall take into consideration all available information, including information provided pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section or furnished upon further request by the Federal Land Manager.
(3) If the facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred, the Federal Land Manager shall so notify the person served with a notice of violation, and no penalty shall be assessed.
(4) Where the facts warrant a conclusion that a violation has occurred, the Federal Land Manager shall determine a penalty amount in accordance with § 700.831.
(f)
Notice of assessment.
The Federal Land Manager shall notify the person served with a notice of violation of the penalty amount assessed by serving a written notice of assessment, either in person or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested). The Federal Land Manager shall include the following in the notice of assessment.
(1) The facts and conclusions from which it was determined that a violation did occur;
(2) The basis in § 700.831 for determining the penalty amount assessed and/or any offer to mitigate or remit the penalty; and
(3) Notification of the right to request a hearing, including the procedures to be followed, and to seek judicial review of any final administrative decision assessing a civil penalty.
(g)
Hearings.
(1) Except where the right to request a hearing is deemed to have been waived as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the person served with a notice of assessment may file a written request for a hearing with the adjudicatory body specified in the notice. The person shall enclose with the request for hearing a copy of the notice of assessment, and shall deliver the request, as specified in the notice of assessment, personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested).
(2) Failure to deliver a written request for a hearing within 45 days of the date of service of the notice of assessment shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(3) Any hearing conducted pursuant to this section shall be held in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554. In any such hearing, the amount of civil penalty assessed shall be determined in accordance with this part, and shall not be limited by the amount assessed by the Federal Land Manager under paragraph (f) of this section of any offer of mitigation or remission made by the Federal Land Manager.
(h)
Final administrative decision.
(1) Where the person served with a notice of violation has accepted the penalty pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the notice of violation shall constitute the final administrative decision;
(2) Where the person served with a notice of assessment has not filed a timely request for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the notice of assessment shall constitute the final administrative decision;
(3) Where the person served with a notice of assessment has filed a timely request for hearing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the decision resulting from the hearing or any applicable administrative appeal therefrom shall constitute the final administrative decision.
(i)
Payment of penalty.
(1) The person assessed a civil penalty shall have 45 calendar days from the date of issuance of the final administrative decision in which to make full payment of the penalty assessed, unless a timely request for appeal has been filed with a U.S. District Court, as provided in section 7(b)(1) of the Act.
(2) Upon failure to pay the penalty, the Federal Land Manager may request the Attorney General to institute a civil action to collect the penalty in a U.S. District Court for any district in which the person assessed a civil penalty is found, resides, or transacts business. Where the Federal Land Manager is not represented by the Attorney General, a civil action may be initiated directly by the Federal Land Manager.
(j)
Other remedies not waived.
Assessment of a penalty under this section shall not be deemed a waiver of the right to pursue other available legal or administrative remedies.
§ 700.833
Civil penalty amounts.
(a)
Maximum amount of penalty.
(1) Where the person being assessed a civil penalty has not committed any previous violation of any prohibition in § 700.807 or of any term or condition included in a permit issued pursuant to this part, the maximum amount of the penalty shall be the full cost of restoration and repair of archaeological resources damaged plus the commercial value of archaeological resources destroyed or not recovered.
(2) Where the person being assessed a civil penalty has committed any previous violation of any prohibition in § 700.807 or of any term or condition included in a permit issued pursuant to this part, the maximum amount of the penalty shall be double the cost of restoration and repair plus double the commercial value of archaeological resources destroyed or not recovered.
(3) Violations limited to the removal of arrowheads located on the surface of
the ground shall not be subject to the penalties prescribed in this section.
(b)
Determination of penalty amount, mitigation, and remission.
The Federal Land Manager may assess a penalty amount less than the maximum amount of penalty and may offer to mitigate or remit the penalty.
(1) Determination of penalty amount and/or a proposal to mitigate or remit the penalty may be based upon any of the following factors.
(i) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to return to the Federal Land Manager and ultimately to the Navajo Nation archaeological resources removed from the New Lands.
(ii) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to assist the Federal Land Manager in activity to preserve, restore, or otherwise contribute to the protection and study of archaeological resources on the New Lands.
(iii) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to provide information which will assist in the detection, prevention, or prosecution of violations of the Act or this part;
(iv) Demonstration of hardship or inability to pay, provided that this factor shall only be considered when the person being assessed a civil penalty has not been found to have previously violated the regulations in this part;
(v) Determination that the person being assessed a civil penalty did not willfully commit the violation.
(vi) Determination that the proposed penalty would constitute excessive punishment under the circumstances.
(vii) Determination of other mitigating circumstances appropriate to consideration in reaching a fair and expeditious assessment.
(2) The Federal Land Manager shall consult with and consider the interests of the Navajo Nation prior to proposing to mitigate or remit the penalty.
§ 700.835
Other penalties and rewards.
(a) Section 6 of the Act contains criminal prohibitions and provisions for criminal penalties. Section 8(b) of the Act provides that archaeological resources, vehicles, or equipment involved in a violation may be subject to forfeiture.
(b) Section 8(a) of the Act provides for rewards to be made to persons who furnish information which leads to conviction for a criminal violation or to assessment of a civil penalty. The Federal Land Manager may certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that a person is eligible to receive payment. Officers and employees of Federal, State, or tribal government who furnish information or render services in the performance of their official duties, and persons who have provided information under § 700.833(b)(1)(iii) shall not be certified eligible to receive payment of rewards.
(c) All civil penalty monies and any item forfeited under the provisions of this section shall be transferred to the Navajo Nation.
§ 700.837
Confidentiality of archaeological resource information.
The Federal Land Manager shall not make available to the public under subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 of the United States Code or any other provisions of law, information concerning the nature and location of any archaeological resource, with the following exceptions:
(a) The Federal Land Manager may make information available, provided that the disclosure will further the purposes of the Act and this part, or the Act of June 27, 1960, as amended (16 U.S.C. 469-469c) without risking harm to the archaeological resource or to the site in which it is located.
(b) With the concurrence of the Navajo Nation, the Federal Land Manager shall make information available, when the Governor of any State has submitted to the Federal Land Manager a written request for information concerning the archaeological resources within the requesting Governor's state; provided that the request includes:
(1) The specific archaeological resource or area about which information is sought.
(2) The purpose for which the information is sought; and
(3) The Governor's written commitment to adequately protect the confidentiality of the information.
§ 700.839
Report.
Each Federal Land Manager, when requested by the Secretary of the Interior, shall submit such information as is necessary to enable the Secretary to comply with section 13 of the Act.
§ 700.841
Determination of loss or absence of archaeological interest.
(a) Under certain circumstances, a Federal land manager may determine, pursuant to § 700.805(a)(5) of this part, that certain material remains are not or are no longer of archaeological interest, and therefore not to be considered archaeological resources under this part.
(b) The Federal land manager may make such a determination if he/she finds that the material remains are not capable of providing scientific or humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics.
(c) Prior to making a determination that material remains are not or are no longer archaeological resources, the Federal land manager shall ensure that the following procedures are completed.
(1) A professional archaeological evaluation of material remains and similar materials within the area under consideration shall be completed, consistent with the Secretary of Interior's Standards and Guidelines for Archaeology and Historic Preservation and with the 36 CFR parts 60, 63, and 65.
(2) The principal Office archaeologist or, in the absence of a principal Office archaeologist, the Office Consulting Archaeologist, shall establish whether the material remains under consideration contribute to scientific or humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaption and related topics. The principal Office archaeologist or the Office Consulting Archaeologist, as appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the Federal land manager concerning these material remains.
(d) The Federal land manager shall make the determination based upon the facts established by and the recommendation of the principal Office archaeologist or the Office Consulting Archaeologist, as appropriate, and shall fully document the basis therefor, including consultation with Indian tribes for determinations regarding sites of religious or cultural importance.
(e) The Federal land manger shall make public notice of the determination and its limitations, including any permitting requirements, for activities associated with the materials determined not to be archaeological resources for the purposes of this part.
(f) Any interested individual may request in writing that the Office Consulting Archaeologist review any final determination by the Federal land manager that certain remains are not, or are no longer, archaeological resources. Two (2) copies of the request should be sent to the Office Consulting Archaeologist, care of Land Use Manager, Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, PO Box KK, Flagstaff, AZ 86002, and should document why the requestor disagrees with the determination of the Federal land manger. The Office Consulting Archaeologist shall review the request, and, if appropriate, shall review the Federal land manager's determination and its supporting documentation. Based upon this review, the Departmental Consulting Archaeologist shall prepare a final professional recommendation, and shall transmit the recommendation and the basis therefor to the head of the bureau for further consideration within 60 days of the receipt of the request.
(g) Any determination made pursuant to this section shall in no way affect the Federal land manager's obligation under other applicable laws or regulations.
§ 700.843
Permitting procedures for Navajo Nation Lands.
(a) Pursuant to the Act and this subpart, the written consent of the Navajo Nation is required. Written consent shall consist of a Navajo Nation permit issued in accordance with the Navajo Nation Code or a resolution of the Navajo Nation Council or delegated committee of that Council.
(b) When Indian tribal lands are involved in an application for a permit or a request for extension or modification of a permit, the consent of the Indian
tribal government must be obtained. For Indian allotted lands outside reservation boundaries, consent from only the individual landowner is needed. When multiple-owner allotted lands are involved, consent by more than 50 percent of the ownership interest is sufficient. For Indian allotted lands within reservation boundaries, consent must be obtained from the Navajo Nation and the individual landowner(s).
(c) The applicant should consult with the Office concerning procedures for obtaining consent from the appropriate Indian tribal authorities and submit the permit application to the Office. The Office shall ensure that consultation with the Navajo Nation or individual Indian landowner regarding terms and conditions of the permit occurs prior to detailed evaluation of the application. Permits shall include terms and conditions requested by the Navajo Nation or Indian landowner pursuant to § 700.817 of this part.
(d) The issuance of a permit under this part does not remove the requirement for any other permit by Indian tribal law.
Pt. 720

# PART 720—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN RELOCATION COMMISSION
Sec.
720.101
Purpose.
720.102
Application.
720.103
Definitions.
720.104-720.109
[Reserved]
720.110
Self-evaluation.
720.111
Notice.
720.112-720.129
[Reserved]
720.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
720.131-720.139
[Reserved]
720.140
Employment.
720.141-720.148
[Reserved]
720.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
720.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
720.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
720.152-720.159
[Reserved]
720.160
Communications.
720.161-720.169
[Reserved]
720.170
Compliance procedures.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C 794.

# Source:
51 FR 22891, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 720.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the U.S. Postal Service.
§ 720.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 720.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency.
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 720.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished
materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 720.104-720.109
[Reserved]
§ 720.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by August 24, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 720.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 720.112-720.129
[Reserved]
§ 720.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 720.131-720.139
[Reserved]
§ 720.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 720.141-720.148
[Reserved]
§ 720.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 720.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 720.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 720.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action
would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 720.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 720.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by February 23, 1987 a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
(e)
Housing.
The agency shall ensure that any dwelling purchased for a relocatee household is readily accessible to and usable by any handicapped person who is a member of that household.
[51 FR 22891, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22892, June 23, 1986]
§ 720.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
(a) Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to
and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
(b) The agency shall ensure that any dwelling that is constructed for a relocatee household is designed and constructed so as to be readily accessible to and usable by any handicapped person who is a member of that household.
[51 FR 22891, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22892, June 23, 1986]
§§ 720.152-720.159
[Reserved]
§ 720.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 720.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 720.161-720.169
[Reserved]
§ 720.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Assistant Director for Relocation Operations shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be mailed to Assistant Director for Relocation Operations, Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission, P.O. Box KK, Flagstaff, Arizona 86002.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by paragraph (g) of this section. The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22891, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22891, June 23, 1986]
PARTS 721-899 [RESERVED]
25 CFR Ch. V (4-1-25 Edition)
BIA, DOI, and IHS, HHS

# CHAPTER V—BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, AND INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Part
Page
900
Contracts under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act
329
901-999
[Reserved]
Pt. 900

# PART 900—CONTRACTS UNDER THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
900.1
Authority.
900.2
Purpose and scope.
900.3
Policy statements.
900.4
Effect on existing tribal rights.
900.5
Effect of these regulations on Federal program guidelines, manual, or policy directives.

# Subpart B—Definitions
900.6
Definitions.

# Subpart C—Contract Proposal Contents
900.7
What technical assistance is available to assist in preparing an initial contract proposal?
900.8
What must an initial contract proposal contain?
900.9
May the Secretary require an Indian tribe or tribal organization to submit any other information beyond that identified in § 900.8?
900.10
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization secure a list of all Federal property currently in use in carrying out the programs, functions, services, or activities that benefit the Indian tribe or tribal organization to assist in negotiating a contract?
900.11
What should an Indian tribe or tribal organization that is proposing a contract do about specifying the Federal property that the Indian tribe or tribal organization may wish to use in carrying out the contract?
900.12
Are the proposal contents requirements the same for renewal of a contract that is expiring and for securing an annual funding agreement after the first year of the funding agreement?
900.13
Does the contract proposal become part of the final contract?

# Subpart D—Review and Approval of Contract Proposals
900.14
What does this subpart cover?
900.15
What shall the Secretary do upon receiving a proposal?
900.16
How long does the Secretary have to review and approve the proposal and award the contract, or decline a proposal?
900.17
Can the statutory 90-day period be extended?
900.18
What happens if a proposal is not declined within 90 days after it is received by the Secretary?
900.19
What happens when a proposal is approved?

# Subpart E—Declination Procedures
900.20
What does this subpart cover?
900.21
When can a proposal be declined?
900.22
For what reasons can the Secretary decline a proposal?
900.23
Can the Secretary decline a proposal where the Secretary's objection can be overcome through the contract?
900.24
Can a contract proposal for an Indian tribe or tribal organization's share of administrative programs, functions, services, and activities be declined for any reason other than the five reasons specified in § 900.22?
900.25
What if only a portion of a proposal raises one of the five declination criteria?
900.26
What happens if the Secretary declines a part of a proposal on the ground that the proposal proposes in part to plan, conduct, or administer a program, function, service or activity that is beyond the scope of programs covered under section 102(a) of the Act, or proposes a level of funding that is in excess of the applicable level determined under section 106(a) of the Act?
900.27
If an Indian tribe or tribal organization elects to contract for a severable portion of a proposal, does the Indian tribe or tribal organization lose its appeal rights to challenge the portion of the proposal that was declined?
900.28
Is technical assistance available to an Indian tribe or tribal organization to avoid declination of a proposal?
900.29
What is the Secretary required to do if the Secretary decides to decline all or a portion of a proposal?
900.30
When the Secretary declines all or a portion of a proposal, is the Secretary required to provide an Indian tribe or tribal organization with technical assistance?
900.31
When the Secretary declines all or a portion of a proposal, is an Indian tribe or tribal organization entitled to any appeal?
900.32
Can the Secretary decline an Indian tribe or tribal organization's proposed successor annual funding agreement?
900.33
Are all proposals to renew term contracts subject to the declination criteria?

# Subpart F—Standards for Tribal or Tribal Organization Management Systems

# General
900.35
What is the purpose of this subpart?
900.36
What requirements are imposed upon Indian tribes or tribal organizations by this subpart?
900.37
What provisions of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars or the “common rule” apply to self-determination contracts?
900.38
Do these standards apply to the subcontractors of an Indian tribe or tribal organization carrying out a self-determination contract?
900.39
What is the difference between a standard and a system?
900.40
When are Indian tribe or tribal organization management standards and management systems evaluated?
900.41
How long must an Indian tribe or tribal organization keep management system records?

# Standards for Financial Management Systems
900.42
What are the general financial management system standards that apply to an Indian tribe carrying out a self-determination contract?
900.43
What are the general financial management system standards that apply to a tribal organization carrying out a self-determination contract?
900.44
What minimum general standards apply to all Indian tribe or tribal organization financial management systems when carrying out a self-determination contract?
900.45
What specific minimum requirements shall an Indian tribe or tribal organization's financial management system contain to meet these standards?
900.46
What requirements are imposed upon the Secretary for financial management by these standards?

# Procurement Management System Standards
900.47
When procuring property or services with self-determination contract funds, can an Indian tribe or tribal organization follow the same procurement policies and procedures applicable to other Indian tribe or tribal organization funds?
900.48
If the Indian tribe or tribal organization does not propose different standards, what basic standards shall the Indian tribe or tribal organization follow?
900.49
What procurement standards apply to subcontracts?
900.50
What Federal laws, regulations, and Executive Orders apply to subcontractors?

# Property Management System Standards
900.51
What is an Indian tribe or tribal organization's property management system expected to do?
900.52
What type of property is the property management system required to track?
900.53
What kind of records shall the property management system maintain?
900.54
Should the property management system prescribe internal controls?
900.55
What are the standards for inventories?
900.56
What maintenance is required for property?
900.57
What if the Indian tribe or tribal organization chooses not to take title to property furnished or acquired under the contract?
900.58
Do the same accountability and control procedures described above apply to Federal property?
900.59
How are the inventory requirements for Federal property different than for tribal property?
900.60
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization dispose of Federal personal property?

# Subpart G—Programmatic Reports and Data Requirements
900.65
What programmatic reports and data shall the Indian tribe or tribal organization provide?
900.66
What happens if the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary cannot come to an agreement concerning the type and/or frequency of program narrative and/or program data report(s)?
900.67
Will there be a uniform data set for all IHS programs?
900.68
Will this uniform data set be required of all Indian tribe or tribal organizations contracting with the IHS under the Act?

# Subpart H—Lease of Tribally-Owned Buildings by the Secretary
900.69
What is the purpose of this subpart?
900.70
What elements are included in the compensation for a lease entered into between the Secretary and an Indian tribe or tribal organization for a building owned or leased by the Indian tribe or tribal organization that is used for administration or delivery of services under the Act?
900.71
What type of reserve fund is anticipated for funds deposited into a reserve for replacement of facilities as specified in § 900.70(c)?
900.72
Who is the guardian of the fund and may the funds be invested?
900.73
Is a lease with the Secretary the only method available to recover the types of cost described in § 900.70?
900.74
How may an Indian tribe or tribal organization propose a lease to be compensated for the use of facilities?

# Subpart I—Property Donation Procedures

# General
900.85
What is the purpose of this subpart?
900.86
How will the Secretary exercise discretion to acquire and donate BIA or IHS excess property and excess and surplus Federal property to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?

# Government-Furnished Property
900.87
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization obtain title to property furnished by the Federal government for use in the performance of a contract or grant agreement pursuant to section 105(f)(2)(A) of the Act?
900.88
What should the Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants to obtain title to government-furnished real property that includes land not already held in trust?
900.89
When may the Secretary elect to reacquire government-furnished property whose title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
900.90
Does government-furnished real property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization has taken title continue to be eligible for facilities operation and maintenance funding from the Secretary?

# Contractor-Purchased Property
900.91
Who takes title to property purchased with funds under a self-determination contract or grant agreement pursuant to section 105(f)(2)(A) of the Act?
900.92
What should the Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants contractor-purchased real property to be taken into trust?
900.93
When may the Secretary elect to acquire title to contractor-purchased property?
900.94
Is contractor-purchased real property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization holds title eligible for facilities operation and maintenance funding from the Secretary?

# BIA and IHS Excess Property
900.95
What is BIA or IHS excess property?
900.96
How can Indian tribes or tribal organizations learn about BIA and IHS excess property?
900.97
How can an Indian tribe or tribal organization acquire excess BIA or IHS property?
900.98
Who takes title to excess BIA or IHS property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
900.99
Who takes title to any land that is part of excess BIA or IHS real property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
900.100
May the Secretary elect to reacquire excess BIA or IHS property whose title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
900.101
Is excess BIA or IHS real property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization has taken title eligible for facilities operation and maintenance funding from the Secretary?

# Excess or Surplus Government Property of Other Agencies
900.102
What is excess or surplus government property of other agencies?
900.103
How can Indian tribes or tribal organizations learn about property that has been designated as excess or surplus government property?
900.104
How may an Indian tribe or tribal organization receive excess or surplus government property of other agencies?
900.105
Who takes title to excess or surplus Federal property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
900.106
If a contract or grant agreement or portion thereof is retroceded, reassumed, terminated, or expires, may the Secretary reacquire title to excess or surplus Federal property of other agencies that was donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?

# Property Eligible for Replacement Funding
900.107
What property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization obtains title under this subpart is eligible for replacement funding?

# Subpart J—Construction
900.110
What does this subpart cover?
900.111
What activities of construction programs are contractible?
900.112
What are construction phases?
900.113
Definitions.
900.114
Why is there a separate subpart in these regulations for construction contracts and grants?
900.115
How do self-determination construction contracts relate to ordinary Federal procurement contracts?
900.116
Are negotiated fixed-price contracts treated the same as cost-reimbursable contracts?
900.117
Do these “construction contract” regulations apply to planning services?
900.118
Do these “construction contract” regulations apply to construction management services?
900.119
To what extent shall the Secretary consult with affected Indian tribes before spending funds for any construction project?
900.120
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization find out about a construction project?
900.121
What happens during the preplanning phase and can an Indian tribe or tribal organization perform any of the activities involved in this process?
900.122
What does an Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants to secure a construction contract?
900.123
What happens if the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary cannot develop a mutually agreeable contract proposal?
900.124
May the Indian tribe or tribal organization elect to use a grant in lieu of a contract?
900.125
What shall a construction contract proposal contain?
900.126
Shall a construction contract proposal incorporate provisions of Federal construction guidelines and manuals?
900.127
What can be included in the Indian tribe or tribal organization's contract budget?
900.128
What funding shall the Secretary provide in a construction contract?
900.129
How do the Secretary and Indian tribe or tribal organization arrive at an overall fair and reasonable price for the performance of a construction contract?
900.130
What role does the Indian tribe or tribal organization play during the performance of a self-determination construction contract?
900.131
What role does the Secretary play during the performance of a self-determination construction contract?
900.132
Once a contract and/or grant is awarded, how will the Indian tribe or tribal organization receive payments?
900.133
Does the declination process or the Contract Dispute Act apply to construction contract amendments proposed either by an Indian tribe or tribal organization or the Secretary?
900.134
At the end of a self-determination construction contract, what happens to savings on a cost-reimbursement contract?
900.135
May the time frames for action set out in this subpart be reduced?
900.136
Do tribal employment rights ordinances apply to construction contracts and subcontracts?
900.137
Do all provisions of the other subparts apply to contracts awarded under this subpart?

# Subpart K—Waiver Procedures
900.140
Can any provision of the regulations under this part be waived?
900.141
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization get a waiver?
900.142
Does an Indian tribe or tribal organization's waiver request have to be included in an initial contract proposal?
900.143
How is a waiver request processed?
900.144
What happens if the Secretary makes no decision within the 90-day period?
900.145
On what basis may the Secretary deny a waiver request?
900.146
Is technical assistance available for waiver requests?
900.147
What appeal rights are available?
900.148
How can an Indian tribe or tribal organization secure a determination that a law or regulation has been superseded by the Indian Self-Determination Act, as specified in section 107(b) of the Act?

# Subpart L—Appeals

# Appeals Other Than Emergency Reassumption and Suspension, Withholding or Delay in Payment
900.150
What decisions can an Indian tribe or tribal organization appeal under this subpart?
900.151
Are there any appeals this subpart does not cover?
900.152
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization know where and when to file its appeal from decisions made by agencies of DOI or DHHS?
900.153
Does an Indian tribe or tribal organization have any options besides an appeal?
900.154
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization request an informal conference?
900.155
How is an informal conference held?
900.156
What happens after the informal conference?
900.157
Is the recommended decision always final?
900.158
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization appeal the initial decision, if it does not request an informal conference or if it does not agree with the recommended decision resulting from the informal conference?
900.159
May an Indian tribe or tribal organization get an extension of time to file a notice of appeal?
900.160
What happens after an Indian tribe or tribal organization files an appeal?
900.161
How is a hearing arranged?
900.162
What happens when a hearing is necessary?
900.163
What is the Secretary's burden of proof for appeals from decisions under § 900.150(a) through § 900.150(g)?
900.164
What rights do Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and the government have during the appeal process?
900.165
What happens after the hearing?
900.166
Is the recommended decision always final?
900.167
If an Indian tribe or tribal organization objects to the recommended decision, what will the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA do?
900.168
Will an appeal hurt the Indian tribe or tribal organization's position in other contract negotiations?
900.169
Will the decisions on appeals be available for the public to review?

# Appeals of Emergency Reassumption of Self-Determination Contracts or Suspensions, Withholding or Delay of Payments Under a Self-Determination Contract
900.170
What happens in the case of emergency reassumption or suspension or withholding or delay of payments?
900.171
Will there be a hearing?
900.172
What happens after the hearing?
900.173
Is the recommended decision always final?
900.174
If an Indian tribe or tribal organization objects to the recommended decision, what will the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA do?
900.175
Will an appeal hurt an Indian tribe or tribal organization's position in other contract negotiations?
900.176
Will the decisions on appeals be available for the public to review?

# Applicability of the Equal Access to Justice Act
900.177
Does the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) apply to appeals under this subpart?

# Subpart M—Federal Tort Claims Act Coverage General Provisions
900.180
What does this subpart cover?
900.181
What definitions apply to this subpart?
900.182
What other statutes and regulations apply to FTCA coverage?
900.183
Do Indian tribes and tribal organizations need to be aware of areas which FTCA does not cover?
900.184
Is there a deadline for filing FTCA claims?
900.185
How long does the Federal government have to process an FTCA claim after the claim is received by the Federal agency, before a lawsuit may be filed?
900.186
Is it necessary for a self-determination contract to include any clauses about Federal Tort Claims Act coverage?
900.187
Does FTCA apply to a self-determination contract if FTCA is not referenced in the contract?
900.188
To what extent shall the contractor cooperate with the Federal government in connection with tort claims arising out of the contractor's performance?
900.189
Does this coverage extend to subcontractors of self-determination contracts?

# Medical-Related Claims
900.190
Is FTCA the exclusive remedy for a tort claim for personal injury or death resulting from the performance of a self-determination contract?
900.191
Are employees of self-determination contractors providing health services under the self-determination contract protected by FTCA?
900.192
What employees are covered by FTCA for medical-related claims?
900.193
Does FTCA coverage extend to individuals who provide health care services under a personal services contract providing services in a facility that is owned, operated, or constructed under the jurisdiction of the IHS?
900.194
Does FTCA coverage extend to services provided under a staff privileges agreement with a non-IHS facility where the agreement requires a health care practitioner to provide reciprocal services to the general population?
900.195
Does FTCA coverage extend to the contractor's health care practitioners providing services to private patients on a fee-for-services basis when such personnel (not the self-determination contractor) receive the fee?
900.196
Do covered services include the conduct of clinical studies and investigations and the provision of emergency services, including the operation of emergency motor vehicles?
900.197
Does FTCA cover employees of the contractor who are paid by the contractor from funds other than those provided through the self-determination contract?
900.198
Are Federal employees assigned to a self-determination contractor under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act or detailed under section 214 of the Public Health Service Act covered to the same extent that they would be if working directly for a Federal agency?
900.199
Does FTCA coverage extend to health care practitioners to whom staff privileges have been extended in contractor health care facilities operated under a self-determination contract on the condition that such practitioner provide health services to IHS beneficiaries covered by FTCA?
900.200
May persons who are not Indians or Alaska Natives assert claims under FTCA?

# Procedure for Filing Medical-Related Claims
900.201
How should claims arising out of the performance of medical-related functions be filed?
900.202
What should a self-determination contractor or a contractor's employee do on receiving such a claim?
900.203
If the contractor or contractor's employee receives a summons and/or a complaint alleging a tort covered by FTCA, what should the contractor do?

# Non-Medical Related Claims
900.204
Is FTCA the exclusive remedy for a non-medical related tort claim arising out of the performance of a self-determination contract?
900.205
To what non-medical-related claims against self-determination contractors does FTCA apply?
900.206
What employees are covered by FTCA for non-medical-related claims?
900.207
How are non-medical related tort claims and lawsuits filed for IHS?
900.208
How are non-medical related tort claims and lawsuits filed for DOI?
900.209
What should a self-determination contractor or contractor's employee do on receiving a non-medical related tort claim?
900.210
If the contractor or contractor's employee receives a summons and/or complaint alleging a non-medical related tort covered by FTCA, what should an Indian tribe or tribal organization do?

# Subpart N—Post-Award Contract Disputes
900.215
What does this subpart cover?
900.216
What other statutes and regulations apply to contract disputes?
900.217
Is filing a claim under the CDA our only option for resolving post-award contract disputes?
900.218
What is a claim under the CDA?
900.219
How does an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or Federal agency submit a claim?
900.220
Does it make a difference whether the claim is large or small?
900.221
What happens next?
900.222
What goes into a decision?
900.223
When does an Indian tribe or tribal organization get the decision?
900.224
What happens if the decision does not come within that time?
900.225
Does an Indian tribe or tribal organization get paid immediately if the awarding official decides in its favor?
900.226
What rules govern appeals of cost disallowances?
900.227
Can the awarding official change the decision after it has been made?
900.228
Is an Indian tribe or tribal organization entitled to interest if it wins its claim?
900.229
What role will the awarding official play during an appeal?
900.230
What is the effect of a pending appeal?

# Subpart O—Conflicts of Interest
900.231
What is an organizational conflict of interest?
900.232
What must an Indian tribe or tribal organization do if an organizational conflict of interest arises under a contract?
900.233
When must an Indian tribe or tribal organization regulate its employees or subcontractors to avoid a personal conflict of interest?
900.234
What types of personal conflicts of interest involving tribal officers, employees or subcontractors would have to be regulated by an Indian tribe?
900.235
What personal conflicts of interest must the standards of conduct regulate?
900.236
May an Indian tribe elect to negotiate contract provisions on conflict of interest to take the place of this regulation?

# Subpart P—Retrocession and Reassumption Procedures
900.240
What does retrocession mean?
900.241
Who may retrocede a contract, in whole or in part?
900.242
What is the effective date of retrocession?
900.243
What effect will an Indian tribe or tribal organization's retrocession have on its rights to contract?
900.244
Will an Indian tribe or tribal organization's retrocession adversely affect funding available for the retroceded program?
900.245
What obligation does the Indian tribe or tribal organization have with respect to returning property that was used in the operation of the retroceded program?
900.246
What does reassumption mean?
900.247
Under what circumstances is a reassumption considered an emergency instead of non-emergency reassumption?
900.248
In a non-emergency reassumption, what is the Secretary required to do?
900.249
What happens if the contractor fails to take corrective action to remedy the contract deficiencies identified in the notice?
900.250
What shall the second written notice include?
900.251
What is the earliest date on which the contract will be rescinded in a non-emergency reassumption?
900.252
In an emergency reassumption, what is the Secretary required to do?
900.253
What shall the written notice include?
900.254
May the contractor be reimbursed for actual and reasonable “wind up costs” incurred after the effective date of rescission?
900.255
What obligation does the Indian tribe or tribal organization have with respect to returning property that was used in the operation of the rescinded contract?
900.256
Will a reassumption adversely affect funding available for the reassumed program?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 450f
et seq.

# Source:
61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 900 appear at 67 FR 34602, May 15, 2002.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 900.1
Authority.
These regulations are prepared, issued, and maintained jointly by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of the Interior, with the active participation and representation of Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and individual tribal members pursuant to the guidance of the Negotiated Rulemaking procedures required by section 107 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.
§ 900.2
Purpose and scope.
(a)
General.
These regulations codify uniform and consistent rules for contracts by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and the Department of the Interior (DOI) in implementing title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.,
as amended and sections 1 through 9 preceding that title.
(b)
Programs funded by other Departments and agencies.
Included under this part are programs administered (under current or future law or interagency agreement) by the DHHS and the DOI for the benefit of Indians for which appropriations are made to other Federal agencies.
(c)
This part included in contracts by reference.
Each contract, including grants and cooperative agreements in lieu of contracts awarded under section 9 of the Act, shall include by reference the provisions of this part, and any amendment thereto, and they are binding on the Secretary and the contractor except as otherwise specifically authorized by a waiver under section 107(e) of the Act.
(d)
Freedom of Information.
Access to records maintained by the Secretary is governed by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and other applicable Federal law. Except for previously provided copies of tribal records that the Secretary demonstrates are clearly required to be maintained as part of the record keeping systems of the DHHS or the DOI, or both, records of the contractors (including archived records) shall not be considered Federal records for the purpose of the Freedom of Information Act. The Freedom of Information Act does not apply to records maintained solely by Indian tribes and tribal organizations.
(e)
Privacy Act.
Section 108(b) of the Indian Self-Determination Act states that records of the tribal government or tribal organizations shall not be considered Federal records for the purposes of the Privacy Act.
(f)
Information collection.
The Office of Management and Budget has approved, under 44 U.S.C. chapter 35, the information collection requirements in part 900 under assigned control number 1076-0136. The information for part 900 is being collected and used by the Departments to determine applicant eligibility, evaluate applicant capabilities, protect the service population, safeguard Federal funds and other resources, and permit the Departments to administer and evaluate contract programs.
§ 900.3
Policy statements.
(a)
Congressional policy.
(1) Congress has recognized the obligation of the United States to respond to the strong expression of the Indian people for self-determination by assuring maximum Indian participation in the direction, planning, conduct and administration of educational as well as other Federal programs and services to Indian communities so as to render such programs and services more responsive to the needs and desires of those communities.
(2) Congress has declared its commitment to the maintenance of the Federal Government's unique and continuing relationship with, and responsibility to, individual Indian tribes and to the Indian people as a whole through the establishment of a meaningful Indian self-determination policy which will permit an orderly transition from the Federal domination of programs for, and services to, Indians to effective and meaningful participation by the Indian people in the planning, conduct, and administration of those programs and services. In accordance with this policy, the United States is committed to supporting and assisting Indian tribes in the development of strong and stable tribal governments, capable of administering quality programs and developing the economies of their respective communities.
(3) Congress has declared that a major national goal of the United States is to provide the quantity and quality of educational services and opportunities which will permit Indian children to compete and excel in the life areas of their choice, and to achieve the measure of self-determination essential to their social and economic well-being.
(4) Congress has declared that the programs, functions, services, or activities that are contracted and funded under this Act shall include administrative functions of the Department of the Interior and the Department of Health and Human Services (whichever is applicable) that support the delivery of services to Indians, including those administrative activities supportive of, but not included as part of, the service delivery programs described in this paragraph that are otherwise contractible. The administrative functions referred to in the preceding sentence shall be contractible without regard to the organizational level within the Department that carries out such functions. Contracting of the administrative functions described herein shall not be construed to limit or reduce in any way the funding for any program, function, service, or activity serving any other tribe under the Act or any other law. The Secretary is not required to reduce funding for programs, projects, or activities serving a tribe to make funds available to another Indian tribe or tribal organization under this Act.
(5) Congress has further declared that each provision of the Act and each provision of contracts entered into thereunder shall be liberally construed for the benefit of the tribes or tribal organizations to transfer the funding and the related functions, services, activities, and programs (or portions thereof), that are otherwise contractible under the Act, including all related administrative functions, from the Federal government to the contractor.
(6) Congress has declared that one of the primary goals of the 1994 amendments to the Act was to minimize the reporting requirements applicable to tribal contractors and to eliminate excessive and burdensome reporting requirements. Reporting requirements over and above the annual audit report are to be negotiated with disagreements subject to the declination procedures of section 102 of the Act.
(7) Congress has declared that there not be any threshold issues which would avoid the declination, contract review, approval, and appeal process.
(8) Congress has declared that all self-determination contract proposals must be supported by the resolution of an Indian tribe(s).
(9) Congress has declared that to the extent that programs, functions, services, and activities carried out by tribes and tribal organizations pursuant to contracts entered into under this Act reduce the administrative or other responsibilities of the Secretary with respect to the operation of Indian programs and result in savings that have not otherwise been included in the amount of contract funds determined under section 106(a) of the Act, the Secretary shall make such savings available for the provision of additional services to program beneficiaries, either directly or through contractors, in a manner equitable to both direct and contracted programs.
(b)
Secretarial policy.
(1) It is the policy of the Secretary to facilitate the efforts of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to plan, conduct and administer programs, functions, services and activities, or portions thereof, which
the Departments are authorized to administer for the benefit of Indians because of their status as Indians. The Secretary shall make best efforts to remove any obstacles which might hinder Indian tribes and tribal organizations including obstacles that hinder tribal autonomy and flexibility in the administration of such programs.
(2) It is the policy of the Secretary to encourage Indian tribes and tribal organizations to become increasingly knowledgeable about the Departments' programs administered for the benefit of Indians by providing information on such programs, functions and activities and the opportunities Indian tribes have regarding them.
(3) It is the policy of the Secretary to provide a uniform and consistent set of rules for contracts under the Act. The rules contained herein are designed to facilitate and encourage Indian tribes to participate in the planning, conduct, and administration of those Federal programs serving Indian people. The Secretary shall afford Indian tribes and tribal organizations the flexibility, information, and discretion necessary to design contractible programs to meet the needs of their communities consistent with their diverse demographic, geographic, economic, cultural, health, social, religious and institutional needs.
(4) The Secretary recognizes that contracting under the Act is an exercise by Indian tribes of the government-to-government relationship between the United States and the Indian tribes. When an Indian tribe contracts, there is a transfer of the responsibility with the associated funding. The tribal contractor is accountable for managing the day-to-day operations of the contracted Federal programs, functions, services, and activities. The contracting tribe thereby accepts the responsibility and accountability to the beneficiaries under the contract with respect to use of the funds and the satisfactory performance of the programs, functions, services and activities funded under the contract. The Secretary will continue to discharge the trust responsibilities to protect and conserve the trust resources of Indian tribes and the trust resources of individual Indians.
(5) The Secretary recognizes that tribal decisions to contract or not to contract are equal expressions of self-determination.
(6) The Secretary shall maintain consultation with tribal governments and tribal organizations in the Secretary's budget process relating to programs, functions, services and activities subject to the Act. In addition, on an annual basis, the Secretary shall consult with, and solicit the participation of, Indian tribes and tribal organizations in the development of the budget for the Indian Health Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (including participation of Indian tribes and tribal organizations in formulating annual budget requests that the Secretary submits to the President for submission to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code).
(7) The Secretary is committed to implementing and fully supporting the policy of Indian self-determination by recognizing and supporting the many positive and successful efforts and directions of tribal governments and extending the applicability of this policy to all operational components within the Department. By fully extending Indian self-determination contracting to all operational components within the Department having programs or portions of programs for the benefit of Indians under section 102(a)(1) (A) through (D) and for the benefit of Indians because of their status as Indians under section 102(a)(1)(E), it is the Secretary's intent to support and assist Indian tribes in the development of strong and stable tribal governments capable of administering quality programs that meet the tribally determined needs and directions of their respective communities. It is also the policy of the Secretary to have all other operational components within the Department work cooperatively with tribal governments on a government-to-government basis so as to expedite the transition away from Federal domination of Indian programs and make the ideals of Indian self-government and self-determination a reality.
(8) It is the policy of the Secretary that the contractibility of programs under this Act should be encouraged.
In this regard, Federal laws and regulations should be interpreted in a manner that will facilitate the inclusion of those programs or portions of those programs that are for the benefit of Indians under section 102(a)(1) (A) through (D) of the Act, and that are for the benefit of Indians because of their status of Indians under section 102(a)(1)(E) of the Act.
(9) It is the Secretary's policy that no later than upon receipt of a contract proposal under the Act (or written notice of an Indian tribe or tribal organization's intention to contract), the Secretary shall commence planning such administrative actions, including but not limited to transfers or reductions in force, transfers of property, and transfers of contractible functions, as may be necessary to ensure a timely transfer of responsibilities and funding to Indian tribes and tribal organizations.
(10) It is the policy of the Secretary to make available to Indian tribes and tribal organizations all administrative functions that may lawfully be contracted under the Act, employing methodologies consistent with the methodology employed with respect to such functions under titles III and IV of the Act.
(11) The Secretary's commitment to Indian self-determination requires that these regulations be liberally construed for the benefit of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to effectuate the strong Federal policy of self-determination and, further, that any ambiguities herein be construed in favor of the Indian tribe or tribal organization so as to facilitate and enable the transfer of services, programs, functions, and activities, or portions thereof, authorized by the Act.
§ 900.4
Effect on existing tribal rights.
Nothing in these regulations shall be construed as:
(a) Affecting, modifying, diminishing, or otherwise impairing the sovereign immunity from suit enjoyed by Indian tribes;
(b) Terminating, waiving, modifying, or reducing the trust responsibility of the United States to the Indian tribe(s) or individual Indians. The Secretary shall act in good faith in upholding this trust responsibility;
(c) Mandating an Indian tribe to apply for a contract(s) or grant(s) as described in the Act; or
(d) Impeding awards by other Departments and agencies of the United States to Indian tribes to administer Indian programs under any other applicable law.
§ 900.5
Effect of these regulations on Federal program guidelines, manual, or policy directives.
Except as specifically provided in the Act, or as specified in subpart J, an Indian tribe or tribal organization is not required to abide by any unpublished requirements such as program guidelines, manuals, or policy directives of the Secretary, unless otherwise agreed to by the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary, or otherwise required by law.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 900.6
Definitions.
Unless otherwise provided in this part:
Act
means secs. 1 through 9, and title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, Public Law 93-638, as amended.
Annual funding agreement
means a document that represents the negotiated agreement of the Secretary to fund, on an annual basis, the programs, services, activities and functions transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization under the Act.
Appeal
means a request by an Indian tribe or tribal organization for an administrative review of an adverse Agency decision.
Awarding official
means any person who by appointment or delegation in accordance with applicable regulations has the authority to enter into and administer contracts on behalf of the United States of America and make determinations and findings with respect thereto. Pursuant to the Act, this person can be any Federal official, including but not limited to, contracting officers.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Contract
means a self-determination contract as defined in section 4(j) of the Act.
Contract appeals board
means the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA).
Contractor
means an Indian tribe or tribal organization to which a contract has been awarded.
Days
means calendar days; except where the last day of any time period specified in these regulations falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period shall carry over to the next business day unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Department(s)
means the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or the Department of the Interior (DOI), or both.
IHS
means the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.
Indian
means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe.
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group, or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Indirect cost rate
means the rate(s) arrived at through negotiation between an Indian tribe or tribal organization and the appropriate Federal Agency.
Indirect costs
means costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefiting more than one contract objective or which are not readily assignable to the contract objectives specifically benefitted without effort disproportionate to the results achieved.
Initial contract proposal
means a proposal for programs, functions, services, or activities that the Secretary is authorized to perform but which the Indian tribe or tribal organization is not now carrying out.
Real property
means any interest in land together with the improvements, structures, and fixtures and appurtenances thereto.
Reassumption
means rescission, in whole or in part, of a contract and assuming or resuming control or operation of the contracted program by the Secretary without consent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization pursuant to the notice and other procedures set forth in subpart P.
Retrocession
means the voluntary return to the Secretary of a contracted program, in whole or in part, for any reason, before the expiration of the term of the contract.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or the Secretary of the Interior (DOI), or both (and their respective delegates).
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities: provided, that, in any case where a contract is let or a grant made to an organization to perform services benefiting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each such Indian tribe shall be a prerequisite to the letting or making of such contract or grant.
Trust resources
means an interest in land, water, minerals, funds, or other assets or property which is held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe or an individual Indian or which is held by an Indian tribe or Indian subject to a restriction on alienation imposed by the United States.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]

# Subpart C—Contract Proposal Contents
§ 900.7
What technical assistance is available to assist in preparing an initial contract proposal?
The Secretary shall, upon request of an Indian tribe or tribal organization and subject to the availability of appropriations, provide technical assistance on a non-reimbursable basis to such Indian tribe or tribal organization to develop a new contract proposal or
to provide for the assumption by the Indian tribe or tribal organization of any program, service, function, or activity (or portion thereof) that is contractible under the Act. The Secretary may also make a grant to an Indian tribe or tribal organization for the purpose of obtaining technical assistance, as provided in section 103 of the Act. An Indian tribe or tribal organization may also request reimbursement for pre-award costs for obtaining technical assistance under sections 106(a) (2) and (5) of the Act.
§ 900.8
What must an initial contract proposal contain?
An initial contract proposal must contain the following information:
(a) The full name, address and telephone number of the Indian tribe or tribal organization proposing the contract.
(b) If the tribal organization is not an Indian tribe, the proposal must also include:
(1) A copy of the tribal organization's organizational documents (e.g., charter, articles of incorporation, bylaws, etc.).
(2) The full name(s) of the Indian tribe(s) with which the tribal organization is affiliated.
(c) The full name(s) of the Indian tribe(s) proposed to be served.
(d) A copy of the authorizing resolution from the Indian tribe(s) to be served.
(1) If an Indian tribe or tribal organization proposes to serve a specified geographic area, it must provide authorizing resolution(s) from all Indian tribes located within the specific area it proposes to serve. However, no resolution is required from an Indian tribe located outside the area proposed to be served whose members reside within the proposed service area.
(2) If a currently effective authorizing resolution covering the scope of an initial contract proposal has already been provided to the agency receiving the proposal, a reference to that resolution.
(e) The name, title, and signature of the authorized representative of the Indian tribe or tribal organization submitting the contract proposal.
(f) The date of submission of the proposal.
(g) A brief statement of the programs, functions, services, or activities that the tribal organization proposes to perform, including:
(1) A description of the geographical service area, if applicable, to be served.
(2) The estimated number of Indian people who will receive the benefits or services under the proposed contract.
(3) An identification of any local, Area, regional, or national level departmental programs, functions, services, or activities to be contracted, including administrative functions.
(4) A description of the proposed program standards;
(5) An identification of the program reports, data and financial reports that the Indian tribe or tribal organization will provide, including their frequency.
(6) A description of any proposed redesign of the programs, services, functions, or activities to be contracted,
(7) Minimum staff qualifications proposed by the Indian tribe and tribal organization, if any; and
(8) A statement that the Indian tribe or tribal organization will meet the minimum procurement, property and financial management standards set forth in subpart F, subject to any waiver that may have been granted under subpart K.
(h) The amount of funds requested, including:
(1) An identification of the funds requested by programs, functions, services, or activities, under section 106(a)(1) of the Act, including the Indian tribe or tribal organization's share of funds related to such programs, functions, services, or activities, if any, from any Departmental local, area, regional, or national level.
(2) An identification of the amount of direct contract support costs, including one-time start-up or preaward costs under section 106(a)(2) and related provisions of the Act, presented by major categories such as:
(i) Personnel (differentiating between salary and fringe benefits);
(ii) Equipment;
(iii) Materials and supplies;
(iv) Travel;
(v) Subcontracts; and
(vi) Other appropriate items of cost.
(3) An identification of funds the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests to recover for indirect contract support costs. This funding request must include either:
(i) A copy of the most recent negotiated indirect cost rate agreement; or
(ii) An estimated amount requested for indirect costs, pending timely establishment of a rate or negotiation of administrative overhead costs.
(4) To the extent not stated elsewhere in the budget or previously reported to the Secretary, any preaward costs, including the amount and time period covered or to be covered; and
(5) At the option of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, an identification of programs, functions, services, or activities specified in the contract proposal which will be funded from sources other than the Secretary.
(i) The proposed starting date and term of the contract.
(j) In the case of a cooperative agreement, the nature and degree of Federal programmatic involvement anticipated during the term of the agreement.
(k) The extent of any planned use of Federal personnel and Federal resources.
(l) Any proposed waiver(s) of the regulations in this part; and
(m) A statement that the Indian tribe or tribal organization will implement procedures appropriate to the programs, functions, services or activities proposed to be contracted, assuring the confidentiality of medical records and of information relating to the financial affairs of individual Indians obtained under the proposal contract, or as otherwise required by law.
§ 900.9
May the Secretary require an Indian tribe or tribal organization to submit any other information beyond that identified in § 900.8?
No.
§ 900.10
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization secure a list of all Federal property currently in use in carrying out the programs, functions, services, or activities that benefit the Indian tribe or tribal organization to assist in negotiating a contract?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization submits a written request to the Secretary. The Secretary shall provide the requested information, including the condition of the property, within 60 days.
§ 900.11
What should an Indian tribe or tribal organization that is proposing a contract do about specifying the Federal property that the Indian tribe or tribal organization may wish to use in carrying out the contract?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization is encouraged to provide the Secretary, as early as possible, with:
(a) A list of the following Federal property intended for use under the contract:
(1) Equipment;
(2) Furnishings;
(3) Facilities; and
(4) Other real and personal property.
(b) A statement of how the Indian tribe or tribal organization will obtain each item by transfer of title under section 105(f)(2) of the Act and section 1(b)(8) of the model agreement set forth in section 108(c) of the Act, through a temporary use permit, similar arrangement, or otherwise; and
(c) Where equipment is to be shared by contracted and non-contracted programs, services, functions, or activities, a proposal outlining proposed equipment sharing or other arrangements.
§ 900.12
Are the proposal contents requirements the same for renewal of a contract that is expiring and for securing an annual funding agreement after the first year of the funding agreement?
No. In these situations, an Indian tribe or tribal organization should submit a renewal proposal (or notification of intent not to renew) or an annual funding agreement proposal at least 90 days before the expiration date of the contract or existing annual funding agreement. The proposal shall provide funding information in the same detail and format as the original proposal and may also identify any significant proposed changes.
§ 900.13
Does the contract proposal become part of the final contract?
No, unless the parties agree.

# Subpart D—Review and Approval of Contract Proposals
§ 900.14
What does this subpart cover?
This subpart covers any proposal to enter into a self-determination contract, to amend an existing self-determination contract, to renew an existing self-determination contract, or to redesign a program through a self-determination contract.
§ 900.15
What shall the Secretary do upon receiving a proposal?
Upon receipt of a proposal, the Secretary shall:
(a) Within two days notify the applicant in writing that the proposal has been received;
(b) Within 15 days notify the applicant in writing of any missing items required by § 900.8 and request that the items be submitted within 15 days of receipt of the notification; and
(c) Review the proposal to determine whether there are declination issues under section 102(a)(2) of the Act.
§ 900.16
How long does the Secretary have to review and approve the proposal and award the contract, or decline a proposal?
The Secretary has 90 days after receipt of a proposal to review and approve the proposal and award the contract or decline the proposal in compliance with section 102 of the Act and subpart E. At any time during the review period the Secretary may approve the proposal and award the requested contract.
§ 900.17
Can the statutory 90-day period be extended?
Yes, with written consent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization. If consent is not given, the 90-day deadline applies.
§ 900.18
What happens if a proposal is not declined within 90 days after it is received by the Secretary?
A proposal that is not declined within 90 days (or within any agreed extension under § 900.17) is deemed approved and the Secretary shall award the contract or any amendment or renewal within that 90-day period and add to the contract the full amount of funds pursuant to section 106(a) of the Act.
§ 900.19
What happens when a proposal is approved?
Upon approval the Secretary shall award the contract and add to the contract the full amount of funds to which the contractor is entitled under section 106(a) of the Act.

# Subpart E—Declination Procedures
§ 900.20
What does this subpart cover?
This subpart explains how and under what circumstances the Secretary may decline a proposal to contract, to amend an existing contract, to renew an existing contract, to redesign a program, or to waive any provisions of these regulations. For annual funding agreements, see § 900.32.
§ 900.21
When can a proposal be declined?
As explained in §§ 900.16 and 900.17, a proposal can only be declined within 90 days after the Secretary receives the proposal, unless that period is extended with the voluntary and express written consent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
§ 900.22
For what reasons can the Secretary decline a proposal?
The Secretary may only decline to approve a proposal for one of five specific reasons:
(a) The service to be rendered to the Indian beneficiaries of the particular program or function to be contracted will not be satisfactory;
(b) Adequate protection of trust resources is not assured;
(c) The proposed project or function to be contracted for cannot be properly completed or maintained by the proposed contract;
(d) The amount of funds proposed under the contract is in excess of the applicable funding level for the contract, as determined under section 106(a) of the Act; or
(e) The program, function, service, or activity (or a portion thereof) that is the subject of the proposal is beyond
the scope of programs, functions, services, or activities covered under section 102(a)(1) of the Act because the proposal includes activities that cannot lawfully be carried out by the contractor.
§ 900.23
Can the Secretary decline a proposal where the Secretary's objection can be overcome through the contract?
No. The Secretary may not decline to enter into a contract with an Indian tribe or tribal organization based on any objection that will be overcome through the contract.
§ 900.24
Can a contract proposal for an Indian tribe or tribal organization's share of administrative programs, functions, services, and activities be declined for any reason other than the five reasons specified in § 900.22?
No. The Secretary may only decline a proposal based upon one or more of the five reasons listed above. If a contract affects the preexisting level of services to any other tribe, the Secretary shall address that effect in the Secretary's annual report to Congress under section 106(c)(6) of the Act.
§ 900.25
What if only a portion of a proposal raises one of the five declination criteria?
The Secretary must approve any severable portion of a proposal that does not support a declination finding described in § 900.20, subject to any alteration in the scope of the proposal that the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization approve.
§ 900.26
What happens if the Secretary declines a part of a proposal on the ground that the proposal proposes in part to plan, conduct, or administer a program, function, service or activity that is beyond the scope of programs covered under section 102(a) of the Act, or proposes a level of funding that is in excess of the applicable level determined under section 106(a) of the Act?
In those situations the Secretary is required, as appropriate, to approve the portion of the program, function, service, or activity that is authorized under section 102(a) of the Act, or approve a level of funding that is authorized under section 106(a) of the Act. As noted in § 900.25, the approval is subject to any alteration in the scope of the proposal that the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization approve.
§ 900.27
If an Indian tribe or tribal organization elects to contract for a severable portion of a proposal, does the Indian tribe or tribal organization lose its appeal rights to challenge the portion of the proposal that was declined?
No, but the hearing and appeal procedures contained in these regulations only apply to the portion of the proposal that was declined.
§ 900.28
Is technical assistance available to an Indian tribe or tribal organization to avoid declination of a proposal?
Yes. In accordance with section 103(d) of the Act, upon receiving a proposal, the Secretary shall provide any necessary requested technical assistance to an Indian tribe or tribal organization, and shall share all relevant information with the Indian tribe or tribal organization, in order to avoid declination of the proposal.
§ 900.29
What is the Secretary required to do if the Secretary decides to decline all or a portion of a proposal?
If the Secretary decides to decline all or a severable portion of a proposal, the Secretary is required:
(a) To advise the Indian tribe or tribal organization in writing of the Secretary's objections, including a specific finding that clearly demonstrates that (or that is supported by a controlling legal authority that) one of the conditions set forth in § 900.22 exists, together with a detailed explanation of the reason for the decision to decline the proposal and, within 20 days, any documents relied on in making the decision; and
(b) To advise the Indian tribe or tribal organization in writing of the rights described in § 900.31.
§ 900.30
When the Secretary declines all or a portion of a proposal, is the Secretary required to provide an Indian tribe or tribal organization with technical assistance?
Yes. The Secretary shall provide additional technical assistance to overcome the stated objections, in accordance with section 102(b) of the Act, and shall provide any necessary requested technical assistance to develop any modifications to overcome the Secretary's stated objections.
§ 900.31
When the Secretary declines all or a portion of a proposal, is an Indian tribe or tribal organization entitled to any appeal?
Yes. The Indian tribe or tribal organization is entitled to an appeal on the objections raised by the Secretary, with an agency hearing on the record, and the right to engage in full discovery relevant to any issue raised in the matter. The procedures for appeals are in subpart L of these regulations. Alternatively, at its option the Indian tribe or tribal organization has the right to sue in Federal district court to challenge the Secretary's decision.
§ 900.32
Can the Secretary decline an Indian tribe or tribal organization's proposed successor annual funding agreement?
No. If it is substantially the same as the prior annual funding agreement (except for funding increases included in appropriations acts or funding reductions as provided in section 106(b) of the Act) and the contract is with DHHS or the BIA, the Secretary shall approve and add to the contract the full amount of funds to which the contractor is entitled, and may not decline, any portion of a successor annual funding agreement. Any portion of an annual funding agreement proposal which is not substantially the same as that which was funded previously (e.g., a redesign proposal; waiver proposal; different proposed funding amount; or different program, service, function, or activity), or any annual funding agreement proposal which pertains to a contract with an agency of DOI other than the BIA, is subject to the declination criteria and procedures in subpart E. If there is a disagreement over the availability of appropriations, the Secretary may decline the proposal in part under the procedure in subpart E.
§ 900.33
Are all proposals to renew term contracts subject to the declination criteria?
Department of Health and Human Services and the Bureau of Indian Affairs will not review the renewal of a term contract for declination issues where no material and substantial change to the scope or funding of a program, functions, services, or activities has been proposed by the Indian tribe or tribal organization. Proposals to renew term contracts with DOI agencies other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs may be reviewed under the declination criteria.

# Subpart F—Standards for Tribal or Tribal Organization Management Systems

# General
§ 900.35
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart contains the minimum standards for the management systems used by Indian tribes or tribal organizations when carrying out self-determination contracts. It provides standards for an Indian tribe or tribal organization's financial management system, procurement management system, and property management system.
§ 900.36
What requirements are imposed upon Indian tribes or tribal organizations by this subpart?
When carrying out self-determination contracts, Indian tribes and tribal organizations shall develop, implement, and maintain systems that meet these minimum standards, unless one or more of the standards have been waived, in whole or in part, under section 107(e) of the Act and subpart K.
§ 900.37
What provisions of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars or the “common rule” apply to self-determination contracts?
The only provisions of OMB Circulars and the only provisions of the “common rule” that apply to self-determination contracts are the provisions
adopted in these regulations, those expressly required or modified by the Act, and those negotiated and agreed to in a self-determination contract.
§ 900.38
Do these standards apply to the subcontractors of an Indian tribe or tribal organization carrying out a self-determination contract?
An Indian tribe or tribal organization may require that some or all of the standards in this subpart be imposed upon its subcontractors when carrying out a self-determination contract.
§ 900.39
What is the difference between a standard and a system?
(a) Standards are the minimum baseline requirements for the performance of an activity. Standards establish the “what” that an activity should accomplish.
(b) Systems are the procedural mechanisms and processes for the day-to-day conduct of an activity. Systems are “how” the activity will be accomplished.
§ 900.40
When are Indian tribe or tribal organization management standards and management systems evaluated?
(a) Management standards are evaluated by the Secretary when the Indian tribe or tribal organization submits an initial contract proposal.
(b) Management systems are evaluated by an independent auditor through the annual single agency audit report that is required by the Act and OMB Circular A-128.
§ 900.41
How long must an Indian tribe or tribal organization keep management system records?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization must retain financial, procurement and property records for the minimum periods described below. Electronic, magnetic or photographic records may be substituted for hard copies.
(a)
Financial records.
Financial records include documentation of supporting costs incurred under the contract. These records must be retained for three years from the date of submission of the single audit report to the Secretary.
(b)
Procurement records.
Procurement records include solicitations, purchase orders, contracts, payment histories and records applicable of significant decisions. These records must be retained for three years after the Indian tribe or tribal organization or subcontractors make final payment and all other pending matters are closed.
(c)
Property management records.
Property management records of real and personal property transactions must be retained for three years from the date of disposition, replacement, or transfer.
(d)
Litigation, audit exceptions and claims.
Records pertaining to any litigation, audit exceptions or claims requiring management systems data must be retained until the action has been completed.

# Standards for Financial Management Systems
§ 900.42
What are the general financial management system standards that apply to an Indian tribe carrying out a self-determination contract?
An Indian tribe shall expend and account for contract funds in accordance with all applicable tribal laws, regulations, and procedures.
§ 900.43
What are the general financial management system standards that apply to a tribal organization carrying out a self-determination contract?
A tribal organization shall expend and account for contract funds in accordance with the procedures of the tribal organization.
§ 900.44
What minimum general standards apply to all Indian tribe or tribal organization financial management systems when carrying out a self-determination contract?
The fiscal control and accounting procedures of an Indian tribe or tribal organization shall be sufficient to:
(a) Permit preparation of reports required by a self-determination contract and the Act; and
(b) Permit the tracing of contract funds to a level of expenditure adequate to establish that they have not been used in violation of any restrictions or prohibitions contained in any
statute that applies to the self-determination contract.
§ 900.45
What specific minimum requirements shall an Indian tribe or tribal organization's financial management system contain to meet these standards?
An Indian tribe or tribal organization's financial management system shall include provisions for the following seven elements.
(a)
Financial reports.
The financial management system shall provide for accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of self-determination contract activities. This includes providing the Secretary a completed Financial Status Report, SF 269A, as negotiated and agreed to in the self-determination contract.
(b)
Accounting records.
The financial management system shall maintain records sufficiently detailed to identify the source and application of self-determination contract funds received by the Indian tribe or tribal organization. The system shall contain sufficient information to identify contract awards, obligations and unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, or expenditures and income.
(c)
Internal controls.
The financial management system shall maintain effective control and accountability for all self-determination contract funds received and for all Federal real property, personal property, and other assets furnished for use by the Indian tribe or tribal organization under the self-determination contract.
(d)
Budget controls.
The financial management system shall permit the comparison of actual expenditures or outlays with the amounts budgeted by the Indian tribe or tribal organization for each self-determination contract.
(e)
Allowable costs.
The financial management system shall be sufficient to determine the reasonableness, allowability, and allocability of self-determination contract costs based upon the terms of the self-determination contract and the Indian tribe or tribal organization's applicable OMB cost principles, as amended by the Act and these regulations. (The following chart lists certain OMB Circulars and suggests the entities that may use each, but the final selection of the applicable circular may differ from those shown, as agreed to by the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary. Agreements between an Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary currently in place do not require renegotiation.) Copies of these circulars are available from the Executive Office of the President, Publications Service, 725 17th Street N. W., Washington, D. C. 20503.
Type of tribal organization
Applicable OMB cost circular
Tribal Government
A-87, “Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.”
Tribal private non-profit other than: (1) an institution of higher education, (2) a hospital, or (3) an organization named in OMB Circular A-122 as not subject to that circular
A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.”
Tribal educational institution
A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.”
(f)
Source documentation.
The financial management system shall contain accounting records that are supported by source documentation, e.g., canceled checks, paid bills, payroll records, time and attendance records, contract award documents, purchase orders, and other primary records that support self-determination contract fund expenditures.
(g)
Cash management.
The financial management system shall provide for accurate, current, and complete disclosure of cash revenues disbursements, cash-on-hand balances, and obligations by source and application for each Indian tribe or tribal organization, and subcontractor if applicable, so that complete and accurate cash transactions may be prepared as required by the self-determination contract.
§ 900.46
What requirements are imposed upon the Secretary for financial management by these standards?
The Secretary shall establish procedures, consistent with Treasury regulations as modified by the Act, for the transfer of funds from the United States to the Indian tribe or tribal organization in strict compliance with the self-determination contract and the annual funding agreement.

# Procurement Management System Standards
§ 900.47
When procuring property or services with self-determination contract funds, can an Indian tribe or tribal organization follow the same procurement policies and procedures applicable to other Indian tribe or tribal organization funds?
Indian tribes and tribal organizations shall have standards that conform to the standards in this subpart. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization relies upon standards different than those described below, it shall identify the standards it will use as a proposed waiver in the initial contract proposal or as a waiver request to an existing contract.
§ 900.48
If the Indian tribe or tribal organization does not propose different standards, what basic standards shall the Indian tribe or tribal organization follow?
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall ensure that its vendors and/or subcontractors perform in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications of their contracts or purchase orders.
(b) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees who award and administer contracts.
(1) No employee, officer, elected official, or agent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a procurement supported by Federal funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved.
(2) An employee, officer, elected official, or agent of an Indian tribe or tribal organization, or of a subcontractor of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, is not allowed to solicit or accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, or parties to sub-agreements, with the following exemptions. The Indian tribe or tribal organization may exempt a financial interest that is not substantial or a gift that is an unsolicited item of nominal value.
(3) These standards shall also provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for violations of the standards.
(c) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall review proposed procurements to avoid buying unnecessary or duplicative items and ensure the reasonableness of the price. The Indian tribe or tribal organization should consider consolidating or breaking out procurement to obtain more economical purchases. Where appropriate, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall compare leasing and purchasing alternatives to determine which is more economical.
(d) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall conduct all major procurement transactions by providing full and open competition, to the extent necessary to assure efficient expenditure of contract funds and to the extent feasible in the local area.
(1) Indian tribes or tribal organizations shall develop their own definition for “major procurement transactions.”
(2) As provided in sections 7 (b) and (c) of the Act, Indian preference and tribal preferences shall be applied in any procurement award.
(e) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall make procurement awards only to responsible entities who have the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed procurement. In making this judgment, the Indian tribe or tribal organization will consider such matters as the contractor's integrity, its compliance with public policy, its record of past performance, and its financial and technical resources.
(f) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall maintain records on the significant history of all major procurement transactions. These records may include, but are not limited to, the rationale for the method of procurement, the selection of contract type, the contract selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.
(g) The Indian tribe or tribal organization is solely responsible, using good administrative practice and sound business judgment, for processing and settling all contractual and administrative issues arising out of a procurement. These issues include, but are not
limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims.
(1) The settlement of any protest, dispute, or claim shall not relieve the Indian tribe or tribal organization of any obligations under a self-determination contract.
(2) Violations of law shall be referred to the tribal or Federal authority having proper jurisdiction.
§ 900.49
What procurement standards apply to subcontracts?
Each subcontract entered into under the Act shall at a minimum:
(a) Be in writing;
(b) Identify the interested parties, their authorities, and the purposes of the contract;
(c) State the work to be performed under the contract;
(d) State the process for making any claim, the payments to be made, and the terms of the contract, which shall be fixed; and
(e) Be subject to sections 7 (b) and (c) of the Act.
§ 900.50
What Federal laws, regulations, and Executive Orders apply to subcontractors?
Certain provisions of the Act as well as other applicable Federal laws, regulations, and Executive Orders apply to subcontracts awarded under self-determination contracts. As a result, subcontracts should contain a provision informing the recipient that their award is funded with Indian Self-Determination Act funds and that the recipient is responsible for identifying and ensuring compliance with applicable Federal laws, regulations, and Executive Orders. The Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization may, through negotiation, identify all or a portion of such requirements in the self-determination contract and, if so identified, these requirements should be identified in subcontracts.

# Property Management System Standards
§ 900.51
What is an Indian tribe or tribal organization's property management system expected to do?
An Indian tribe or tribal organization's property management system shall account for all property furnished or transferred by the Secretary for use under a self-determination contract or acquired with contract funds. The property management system shall contain requirements for the use, care, maintenance, and disposition of Federally-owned and other property as follows:
(a) Where title vests in the Indian tribe, in accordance with tribal law and procedures; or
(b) In the case of a tribal organization, according to the internal property procedures of the tribal organization.
§ 900.52
What type of property is the property management system required to track?
The property management system of the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall track:
(a) Personal property with an acquisition value in excess of $5,000 per item;
(b) Sensitive personal property, which is all personal property that is subject to theft and pilferage, as defined by the Indian tribe or tribal organization. All firearms shall be considered sensitive personal property; and
(c) Real property provided by the Secretary for use under the contract.
§ 900.53
What kind of records shall the property management system maintain?
The property management system shall maintain records that accurately describe the property, including any serial number or other identification number. These records should contain information such as the source, titleholder, acquisition date, cost, share of Federal participation in the cost, location, use and condition of the property, and the date of disposal and sale price, if any.
§ 900.54
Should the property management system prescribe internal controls?
Yes. Effective internal controls should include procedures:
(a) For the conduct of periodic inventories;
(b) To prevent loss or damage to property; and
(c) To ensure that property is used for an Indian tribe or tribal organization's self-determination contract(s)
until the property is declared excess to the needs of the contract consistent with the Indian tribe or tribal organization's property management system.
§ 900.55
What are the standards for inventories?
A physical inventory should be conducted at least once every 2 years. The results of the inventory shall be reconciled with the Indian tribe or tribal organization's internal property and accounting records.
§ 900.56
What maintenance is required for property?
Required maintenance includes the performance of actions necessary to keep the property in good working condition, the procedures recommended by equipment manufacturers, and steps necessary to protect the interests of the contractor and the Secretary in any express warranties or guarantees covering the property.
§ 900.57
What if the Indian tribe or tribal organization chooses not to take title to property furnished or acquired under the contract?
If the Indian tribe or tribal organization chooses not to take title to property furnished by the government or acquired with contract funds, title to the property remains vested in the Secretary. A list of Federally-owned property to be used under the contract shall be included in the contract.
§ 900.58
Do the same accountability and control procedures described above apply to Federal property?
Yes, except that requirements for the inventory and disposal of Federal property are different.
§ 900.59
How are the inventory requirements for Federal property different than for tribal property?
There are three additional requirements:
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall conduct a physical inventory of the Federally-owned property and reconcile the results with the Indian tribe or tribal organization's property records annually, rather than every 2 years;
(b) Within 90 days following the end of an annual funding agreement, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall certify and submit to the Secretary an annual inventory of all Federally-owned real and personal property used in the contracted program; and
(c) The inventory shall report any increase or decrease of $5,000 or more in the value of any item of real property.
§ 900.60
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization dispose of Federal personal property?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall report to the Secretary in writing any Federally-owned personal property that is worn out, lost, stolen, damaged beyond repair, or no longer needed for the performance of the contract.
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall state whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization wants to dispose of or return the property.
(b) If the Secretary does not respond within 60 days, the Indian tribe or tribal organization may return the property to the Secretary, who shall accept transfer, custody, control, and responsibility for the property (together with all associated costs).

# Subpart G—Programmatic Reports and Data Requirements
§ 900.65
What programmatic reports and data shall the Indian tribe or tribal organization provide?
Unless required by statute, there are no mandatory reporting requirements. Each Indian tribe or tribal organization shall negotiate with the Secretary the type and frequency of program narrative and program data report(s) which respond to the needs of the contracting parties and that are appropriate for the purposes of the contract. The extent of available resources will be a consideration in the negotiations.
§ 900.66
What happens if the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary cannot come to an agreement concerning the type and/or frequency of program narrative and/or program data report(s)?
Any disagreements over reporting requirements are subject to the declination criteria and procedures in section 102 of the Act and subpart E.
§ 900.67
Will there be a uniform data set for all IHS programs?
IHS will work with Indian tribe or tribal organization representatives to develop a mutually defined uniform subset of data that is consistent with Congressional intent, imposes a minimal reporting burden, and which responds to the needs of the contracting parties.
§ 900.68
Will this uniform data set be required of all Indian tribe or tribal organizations contracting with the IHS under the Act?
No. The uniform data set, applicable to the services to be performed, will serve as the target for the Secretary and the Indian tribes or tribal organizations during individual negotiations on program data reporting requirements.

# Subpart H—Lease of Tribally-Owned Buildings by the Secretary
§ 900.69
What is the purpose of this subpart?
Section 105(l) of the Act requires the Secretary, at the request of an Indian tribe or tribal organization, to enter into a lease with the Indian tribe or tribal organization for a building owned or leased by the tribe or tribal organization that is used for administration or delivery of services under the Act. The lease is to include compensation as provided in the statute as well as “such other reasonable expenses that the Secretary determines, by regulation, to be allowable.” This subpart contains requirements for these leases.
§ 900.70
What elements are included in the compensation for a lease entered into between the Secretary and an Indian tribe or tribal organization for a building owned or leased by the Indian tribe or tribal organization that is used for administration or delivery of services under the Act?
To the extent that no element is duplicative, the following elements may be included in the lease compensation:
(a) Rent (sublease);
(b) Depreciation and use allowance based on the useful life of the facility based on acquisition costs not financed with Federal funds;
(c) Contributions to a reserve for replacement of facilities;
(d) Principal and interest paid or accrued;
(e) Operation and maintenance expenses, to the extent not otherwise included in rent or use allowances, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Water, sewage;
(2) Utilities;
(3) Fuel;
(4) Insurance;
(5) Building management supervision and custodial services;
(6) Custodial and maintenance supplies;
(7) Pest control;
(8) Site maintenance (including snow and mud removal);
(9) Trash and waste removal and disposal;
(10) Fire protection/fire fighting services and equipment;
(11) Monitoring and preventive maintenance of building structures and systems, including but not limited to:
(i) Heating/ventilation/air conditioning;
(ii) Plumbing;
(iii) Electrical;
(iv) Elevators;
(v) Boilers;
(vi) Fire safety system;
(vii) Security system; and
(viii) Roof, foundation, walls, floors.
(12) Unscheduled maintenance;
(13) Scheduled maintenance (including replacement of floor coverings, lighting fixtures, repainting);
(14) Security services;
(15) Management fees; and
(16) Other reasonable and necessary operation or maintenance costs justified by the contractor;
(f) Repairs to buildings and equipment;
(g) Alterations needed to meet contract requirements;
(h) Other reasonable expenses; and
(i) The fair market rental for buildings or portions of buildings and land, exclusive of the Federal share of building construction or acquisition costs, or the fair market rental for buildings constructed with Federal funds exclusive of fee or profit, and for land.
§ 900.71
What type of reserve fund is anticipated for funds deposited into a reserve for replacement of facilities as specified in § 900.70(c)?
Reserve funds must be accounted for as a capital project fund or a special revenue fund.
§ 900.72
Who is the guardian of the fund and may the funds be invested?
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization is the guardian of the fund.
(b) Funds may be invested in accordance with the laws, regulations and policies of the Indian tribe or tribal organization subject to the terms of the lease or the self-determination contract.
§ 900.73
Is a lease with the Secretary the only method available to recover the types of cost described in § 900.70?
No. With the exception of paragraph (i) in § 900.70, the same types of costs may be recovered in whole or in part under section 106(a) of the Act as direct or indirect charges to a self-determination contract.
§ 900.74
How may an Indian tribe or tribal organization propose a lease to be compensated for the use of facilities?
There are three options available:
(a) The lease may be based on fair market rental.
(b) The lease may be based on a combination of fair market rental and paragraphs (a) through (h) of § 900.70, provided that no element of expense is duplicated in fair market rental.
(c) The lease may be based on paragraphs (a) through (h) of § 900.70 only.

# Subpart I—Property Donation Procedures

# General
§ 900.85
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart implements section 105(f) of the Act regarding donation of Federal excess and surplus property to Indian tribes or tribal organizations and acquisition of property with funds provided under a self-determination contract or grant.
§ 900.86
How will the Secretary exercise discretion to acquire and donate BIA or IHS excess property and excess and surplus Federal property to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
The Secretary will exercise discretion in a way that gives maximum effect to the requests of Indian tribes or tribal organizations for donation of BIA or IHS excess property and excess or surplus Federal property, provided that the requesting Indian tribe or tribal organization shall state how the requested property is appropriate for use for any purpose for which a self-determination contract or grant is authorized.

# Government-Furnished Property
§ 900.87
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization obtain title to property furnished by the Federal government for use in the performance of a contract or grant agreement pursuant to section 105(f)(2)(A) of the Act?
(a) For government-furnished personal property made available to an Indian tribe or tribal organization before October 25, 1994:
(1) The Secretary, in consultation with each Indian tribe or tribal organization, shall develop a list of the property used in a self-determination contract.
(2) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall indicate any items on the list to which the Indian tribe or tribal organization wants the Secretary to retain title.
(3) The Secretary shall provide the Indian tribe or tribal organization with any documentation needed to transfer title to the remaining listed property to the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(b) For government-furnished real property made available to an Indian tribe or tribal organization before October 25, 1994:
(1) The Secretary, in consultation with the Indian tribe or tribal organization, shall develop a list of the property furnished for use in a self-determination contract.
(2) The Secretary shall inspect any real property on the list to determine
the presence of any hazardous substance activity, as defined in 41 CFR 101-47.202.2(b)(10). If the Indian tribe or tribal organization desires to take title to any real property on the list, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall inform the Secretary, who shall take such steps as necessary to transfer title to the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(c) For government-furnished real and personal property made available to an Indian tribe or tribal organization on or after October 25, 1994:
(1) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall take title to all property unless the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests that the United States retain the title.
(2) The Secretary shall determine the presence of any hazardous substance activity, as defined in 41 CFR 101-47.202.2(b)(10).
§ 900.88
What should the Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants to obtain title to government-furnished real property that includes land not already held in trust?
If the land is owned by the United States but not held in trust for an Indian tribe or individual Indian, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall specify whether it wants to acquire fee title to the land or whether it wants the land to be held in trust for the benefit of a tribe.
(a) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests fee title, the Secretary shall take the necessary action under Federal law and regulations to transfer fee title.
(b) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests beneficial ownership with fee title to be held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe:
(1) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit with its request a resolution of support from the governing body of the Indian tribe in which the beneficial ownership is to be registered.
(2) If the request is submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for land under the jurisdiction of that Secretary, the Secretary shall take all necessary steps to effect a transfer of the land to the Secretary of the Interior and shall also forward the Indian tribe or tribal organization's request and the tribe's resolution.
(3) The Secretary of the Interior shall expeditiously process all requests in accordance with applicable Federal law and regulations.
(4) The Secretary shall not require the Indian tribe or tribal organization to furnish any information in support of a request other than that required by law or regulation.
§ 900.89
When may the Secretary elect to reacquire government-furnished property whose title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, when a self-determination contract or grant agreement, or portion thereof, is retroceded, reassumed, terminated, or expires, the Secretary shall have the option to take title to any item of government-furnished property:
(1) That title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(2) That is still in use in the program; and
(3) That has a current fair market value, less the cost of improvements borne by the Indian tribe or tribal organization in excess of $5,000.
(b) If property referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is shared between one or more ongoing contracts or grant agreements and a contract or grant agreement that is retroceded, reassumed, terminated or expires and the Secretary wishes to use such property in the retroceded or reassumed program, the Secretary and the contractor or grantee using such property shall negotiate an acceptable arrangement for continued sharing of such property and for the retention or transfer of title.
§ 900.90
Does government-furnished real property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization has taken title continue to be eligible for facilities operation and maintenance funding from the Secretary?
Yes.

# Contractor-Purchased Property
§ 900.91
Who takes title to property purchased with funds under a self-determination contract or grant agreement pursuant to section 105(f)(2)(A) of the Act?
The contractor takes title to such property, unless the contractor chooses to have the United States take title. In that event, the contractor must inform the Secretary of the purchase and identify the property and its location in such manner as the contractor and the Secretary deem necessary. A request for the United States to take title to any item of contractor-purchased property may be made at any time. A request for the Secretary to take fee title to real property shall be expeditiously processed in accordance with applicable Federal law and regulation.
§ 900.92
What should the Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants contractor-purchased real property to be taken into trust?
The contractor shall submit a resolution of support from the governing body of the Indian tribe in which the beneficial ownership is to be registered. If the request to take contractor-purchased real property into trust is submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that Secretary shall transfer the request to the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior shall expeditiously process all requests in accord with applicable Federal law and regulation.
§ 900.93
When may the Secretary elect to acquire title to contractor-purchased property?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section when a self-determination contract or grant agreement, or portion thereof, is retroceded, reassumed, terminated, or expires, the Secretary shall have the option to take title to any item of government-furnished property:
(1) Whose title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(2) That is still in use in the program; and
(3) That has a current fair market value, less the cost of improvements borne by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, in excess of $5,000.
(b) If property referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is shared between one or more ongoing contracts or grant agreements and a contract or grant agreement that is retroceded, reassumed, terminated or expires and the Secretary wishes to use such property in the retroceded or reassumed program, the Secretary and the contractor or grantee using such property shall negotiate an acceptable arrangement for continued sharing of such property and for the retention or transfer of title.
§ 900.94
Is contractor-purchased real property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization holds title eligible for facilities operation and maintenance funding from the Secretary?
Yes.

# BIA and IHS Excess Property
§ 900.95
What is BIA or IHS excess property?
BIA or IHS excess property means property under the jurisdiction of the BIA or IHS that is excess to the agency's needs and the discharge of its responsibilities.
§ 900.96
How can Indian tribes or tribal organizations learn about BIA and IHS excess property?
The Secretary shall not less than annually send to Indian tribes and tribal organizations a listing of all excess BIA or IHS personal property before reporting the property to GSA or to any other Federal agency as excess. The listing shall identify the agency official to whom a request for donation shall be submitted.
§ 900.97
How can an Indian tribe or tribal organization acquire excess BIA or IHS property?
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit to the appropriate Secretary a request for specific property that includes a statement of how the property is intended for use in connection with a self-determination contract or grant. The Secretary shall expeditiously process the request and shall exercise discretion in a way that
gives maximum effect to the request of Indian tribes or tribal organizations for the donation of excess BIA or IHS property.
(b) If more than one request for the same item of personal property is submitted, the Secretary shall award the item to the requestor whose request is received on the earliest date. If two or more requests are received on the same date, the Secretary shall award the item to the requestor with the lowest transportation costs. The Secretary shall make the donation as expeditiously as possible.
(c) If more than one request for the same parcel of real property is submitted, the Secretary shall award the property to the Indian tribe or tribal organization whose reservation or trust land is closest to the real property requested.
§ 900.98
Who takes title to excess BIA or IHS property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization takes title to donated excess BIA or IHS property. The Secretary shall provide the Indian tribe or tribal organization with all documentation needed to vest title in the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
§ 900.99
Who takes title to any land that is part of excess BIA or IHS real property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
(a) If an Indian tribe or tribal organization requests donation of fee title to excess real property that includes land not held in trust for an Indian tribe, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall so specify in its request for donation. The Secretary shall take the necessary action under Federal law and regulations to transfer the title to the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(b) If an Indian tribe or tribal organization asks the Secretary to donate excess real property that includes land and requests that fee title to the land be held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe, the requestor shall submit a resolution of support from the governing body of the Indian tribe in which the beneficial ownership is to be registered.
(1) If the donation request is submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that Secretary shall take all steps necessary to transfer the land to the Secretary of the Interior with the Indian tribe or tribal organization's request and the Indian tribe's resolution. The Secretary of the Interior shall expeditiously process all requests in accordance with applicable Federal law and regulations.
(2) The Secretary shall not require the Indian tribe or tribal organization to furnish any information in support of a request other than that required by law or regulation.
§ 900.100
May the Secretary elect to reacquire excess BIA or IHS property whose title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
Yes. When a self-determination contract or grant agreement, or portion—thereof, is retroceded, reassumed, terminated, or expires, the Secretary shall have the option to take title to any item of the property;
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section when a self-determination contract or grant agreement, or portion thereof, is retroceded, reassumed, terminated, or expires, the Secretary shall have the option to take title to any item of government-furnished property:
(1) Whose title has been transferred to an Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(2) That is still in use in the program; and
(3) That has a current fair market value, less the cost of improvements borne by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, in excess of $5,000.
(b) To the extent that any property referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is shared between one or more ongoing contracts or grant agreements and a contract or grant agreement that is retroceded, reassumed, terminated or expires and the Secretary wishes to use such property in the retroceded or reassumed program, the Secretary and the contractor or grantee using such property shall negotiate an acceptable arrangement for continued sharing of such property and for the retention or transfer of title.
§ 900.101
Is excess BIA or IHS real property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization has taken title eligible for facilities operation and maintenance funding from the Secretary?
Yes.

# Excess or Surplus Government Property of Other Agencies
§ 900.102
What is excess or surplus government property of other agencies?
(a) “Excess government property” is real or personal property under the control of a Federal agency, other than BIA and IHS, which is not required for the agency's needs and the discharge of its responsibilities.
(b) “Surplus government property” means excess real or personal property that is not required for the needs of and the discharge of the responsibilities of all Federal agencies that has been declared surplus by the General Services Administration (GSA).
§ 900.103
How can Indian tribes or tribal organizations learn about property that has been designated as excess or surplus government property?
The Secretary shall furnish, not less than annually, to Indian tribes or tribal organizations listings of such property as may be made available from time to time by GSA or other Federal agencies, and shall obtain listings upon the request of an Indian tribe or tribal organization.
§ 900.104
How may an Indian tribe or tribal organization receive excess or surplus government property of other agencies?
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall file a request for specific property with the Secretary, and shall state how the property is appropriate for use for a purpose for which a self-determination contract or grant is authorized under the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall expeditiously process such request and shall exercise discretion to acquire the property in the manner described in § 900.86 of this subpart.
(c) Upon approval of the Indian tribe or tribal organization's request, the Secretary shall immediately request acquisition of the property from the GSA or the holding agency, as appropriate, by submitting the necessary documentation in order to acquire the requested property prior to the expiration of any “freeze” placed on the property by the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(d) The Secretary shall specify that the property is requested for donation to an Indian tribe or tribal organization pursuant to authority provided in section 105(f)(3) of the Act.
(e) The Secretary shall request a waiver of any fees for transfer of the property in accordance with applicable Federal regulations.
§ 900.105
Who takes title to excess or surplus Federal property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
(a) Title to any donated excess or surplus Federal personal property shall vest in the Indian tribe or tribal organization upon taking possession.
(b) Legal title to donated excess or surplus Federal real property shall vest in the Indian tribe or tribal organization upon acceptance by the Indian tribe or tribal organization of a proper deed of conveyance.
(c) If the donation of excess or surplus Federal real property includes land owned by the United States but not held in trust for an Indian tribe, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall specify whether it wants to acquire fee title to the land or whether it wants the land to be held in trust for the benefit of an Indian tribe.
(1) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests fee title, the Secretary shall take the necessary action under Federal law and regulations to transfer fee title to the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(2) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests beneficial ownership with fee title to be held by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe:
(i) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit with its request a resolution of support from the governing body of the Indian tribe in which the beneficial ownership is to be registered.
(ii) If the donation request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization is submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that Secretary shall take all necessary steps to acquire the land and transfer it to the Secretary of the Interior and shall also forward the Indian tribe or tribal organization's request and the Indian tribe's resolution.
(iii) The Secretary of the Interior shall expeditiously process all requests in accord with applicable Federal law and regulations.
(iv) The Secretary shall not require submission of any information other than that required by Federal law and regulation.
§ 900.106
If a contract or grant agreement or portion thereof is retroceded, reassumed, terminated, or expires, may the Secretary reacquire title to excess or surplus Federal property of other agencies that was donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
No. Section 105(f)(3) of the Act does not give the Secretary the authority to reacquire title to excess or surplus government property acquired from other agencies for donation to an Indian tribe or tribal organization.

# Property Eligible for Replacement Funding
§ 900.107
What property to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization obtains title under this subpart is eligible for replacement funding?
Government-furnished property, contractor-purchased property and excess BIA and IHS property donated to an Indian tribe or tribal organization to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization holds title shall remain eligible for replacement funding to the same extent as if title to that property were held by the United States.

# Subpart J—Construction
§ 900.110
What does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart establishes requirements for issuing fixed-price or cost-reimbursable contracts to provide: design, construction, repair, improvement, expansion, replacement, erection of new space, or demolition and other related work for one or more Federal facilities. It applies to tribal facilities where the Secretary is authorized by law to design, construct and/or renovate, or make improvements to such tribal facilities.
(b) Activities covered by construction contracts under this subpart are: design and architectural/engineering services, construction project management, and the actual construction of the building or facility in accordance with the construction documents, including all labor, materials, equipment, and services necessary to complete the work defined in the construction documents.
(1) Such contracts may include the provision of movable equipment, telecommunications and data processing equipment, furnishings (including works of art), and special purpose equipment, when part of a construction contract let under this subpart.
(2) While planning services and construction management services as defined in § 900.113 may be included in a construction contract under this subpart, they may also be contracted separately using the model agreement in section 108 of the Act.
§ 900.111
What activities of construction programs are contractible?
The Secretary shall, upon the request of any Indian tribe or tribal organization authorized by tribal resolution, enter into a self-determination contract to plan, conduct, and administer construction programs or portions thereof.
§ 900.112
What are construction phases?
(a) Construction programs generally include the following activities in phases which can vary by funding source (an Indian tribe or tribal organization should contact its funding source for more information regarding the conduct of its program):
(1)
The preplanning phase.
The phase during which an initial assessment and determination of project need is made and supporting information collected for presentation in a project application. This project application process is explained in more detail in § 900.122;
(2)
The planning phase.
The phase during which planning services are provided. This phase can include conducting and preparing a detailed needs assessment, developing justification documents, completing and/or verifying master plans, conducting predesign site investigations and selection, developing budget cost estimates, conducting feasibility studies, and developing a project Program of Requirements (POR);
(3)
The design phase.
The phase during which licensed design professional(s) using the POR as the basis for design of the project, prepare project plans, specifications, and other documents that are a part of the construction documents used to build the project. Site investigation and selection activities are completed in this phase if not conducted as part of the planning phase.
(4)
The construction phase.
The phase during which the project is constructed. The construction phase includes providing the labor, materials, equipment, and services necessary to complete the work in accordance with the construction documents prepared as part of the design phase.
(b) The following activities may be part of phases described in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section:
(1) Management; and
(2) Environmental, archeological, cultural resource, historic preservation, and similar assessments and associated activities.
§ 900.113
Definitions.
(a)
Construction contract
means a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement self-determination contract for a construction project, except that such term does not include any contract:
(1) That is limited to providing planning services and construction management services (or a combination of such services);
(2) For the Housing Improvement Program or roads maintenance program of the Bureau of Indian Affairs administered by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(3) For the health facility maintenance and improvement program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b)
Construction management services
(CMS) means activities limited to administrative support services; coordination; and monitoring oversight of the planning, design, and construction process. An Indian tribe or tribal organization's employee or construction management services consultant (typically an engineer or architect) performs such activities as:
(1) Coordination and information exchange between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Federal government;
(2) Preparation of Indian tribe or tribal organization's construction contract proposals;
(3) Indian tribe or tribal organization subcontract scope of work identification and subcontract preparation, and competitive selection of Indian tribe or tribal organization construction contract subcontractors (see § 900.110);
(4) Review of work to ensure compliance with the POR and/or the construction contract. This does not involve construction project management as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Construction programs
include programs for the planning, design, construction, repair, improvement, and expansion of buildings or facilities, including but not limited to, housing, law enforcement and detention facilities, sanitation and water systems, roads, schools, administration and health facilities, irrigation and agricultural work, water conservation, flood control, and port facilities, and environmental, archeological, cultural resource, historic preservation, and conduct of similar assessments.
(d)
Construction project management
means direct responsibility for the construction project through day-to-day on-site management and administration of the project. Activities may include cost management, project budgeting, project scheduling, procurement services.
(e)
Design
means services performed by licensed design professionals related to preparing drawings, specifications, and other design submissions specified in the contract, as well as services provided by or for licensed design professionals during the bidding/negotiating, construction, and operational phases of the project.
(f)
Planning services
means activities undertaken to support agency and/or Congressional funding of a construction project. Planning services may include performing a needs assessment, completing and/or verifying master plans, developing justification documents, conducting pre-design site investigations, developing budget cost estimates, conducting feasibility studies as needed and completion of approved justification documents and a program of requirements (POR) for the project.
(g)
Program of Requirements
(POR) is a planning document developed during the planning phase for an individual project. It provides background about the project; site information; programmatic needs; and, for facilities projects, a detailed room-by-room listing of spaces, including net and gross sizes, finish materials to be used, furnishings and equipment, and other information and design criteria on which to base the construction project documents.
(h)
Scope of work
means the description of the work to be provided through a contract issued under this subpart and the methods and processes to be used to accomplish that work. A scope of work is typically developed based on criteria provided in a POR during the design phase, and project construction documents (plans and specifications) during the construction phase.
§ 900.114
Why is there a separate subpart in these regulations for construction contracts and grants?
There is a separate subpart because the Act differentiates between construction contracts and the model agreement in section 108 of the Act which is required for contracting other activities. Construction contracts are separately defined in the Act and are subject to a separate proposal and review process.
§ 900.115
How do self-determination construction contracts relate to ordinary Federal procurement contracts?
(a) A self-determination construction contract is a government-to-government agreement that transfers control of the construction project, including administrative functions, to the contracting Indian tribe or tribal organization to facilitate effective and meaningful participation by the Indian tribe or tribal organization in planning, conducting, and administering the construction project, and so that the construction project is responsive to the true needs of the Indian community. The Secretary's role in the conduct of a contracted construction project is limited to the Secretary's responsibilities set out in § 900.131.
(b) Self-determination construction contracts are not traditional “procurement” contracts.
(1) With respect to a construction contract (or a subcontract of such a construction contract), the provisions of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
) and the regulations promulgated under that Act, shall apply to a construction contract or subcontract only to the extent that application of the provision is:
(i) Necessary to ensure that the contract may be carried out in a satisfactory manner;
(ii) Directly related to the construction activity; and
(iii) Not inconsistent with the Act.
(2) A list of the Federal requirements that meet the requirements of this paragraph shall be included in an attachment to the contract under negotiations between the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, no Federal law listed in section 105(3)(C)(ii) of the Act or any other provision of Federal law (including an Executive order) relating to acquisition by the Federal government shall apply to a construction contract that an Indian tribe or tribal organization enters into under this Act, unless expressly provided in the law.
(c) Provisions of a construction contract under this subpart shall be liberally construed in favor of the contracting Indian tribe or tribal organization.
§ 900.116
Are negotiated fixed-price contracts treated the same as cost-reimbursable contracts?
Yes, except that in negotiated fixed-price construction contracts, appropriate clauses shall be negotiated to allocate properly the contract risks between the government and the contractor.
§ 900.117
Do these “construction contract” regulations apply to planning services?
(a) These regulations apply to planning services contracts only as provided in this section.
(1) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit to the Secretary for review and approval the POR documents produced as a part of a model contract under section 108 of the Act or under a construction contract under this subpart.
(i) Within 60 days after receipt of the POR from the Indian tribe or tribal organization for a project that has achieved priority ranking or that is funded, the Secretary shall:
(A) Approve the POR;
(B) Notify the Indian tribe or tribal organization of and make available any objections to the POR that the Secretary may have; or
(C) Notify the Indian tribe or tribal organization of the reasons why the Secretary will be unable either to approve the POR or to notify the Indian tribe or tribal organization of any objections within 60 days, and state the time within which the notification will be made, provided that the extended time shall not exceed 60 additional days.
(ii) Within a maximum of 180 days after receipt of a POR from an Indian tribe or tribal organization for a project that is not funded and is not described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the Secretary shall:
(A) Approve the POR; or
(B) Notify the Indian tribe or tribal organization of and make available any objections to the POR; or
(C) Notify the Indian tribe or tribal organization of the reasons why the Secretary will be unable either to approve the POR or to notify the Indian tribe or tribal organization of any objections within 180 days, and state the time within which the notification will be made, provided that the extended time shall not exceed 60 additional days.
(2) Any failure of the Secretary to act on a POR within the applicable period required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be deemed a rejection of the POR and will authorize the commencement of any appeal as provided in section 110 of the Act, or, if a model agreement under section 108 of the Act is used, the disputes provision of that agreement.
(3) If an Indian tribe or tribal organization elects to provide planning services as part of a construction contract rather than under a model agreement as set out in section 108 of the Act, the regulations in this subpart shall apply.
(b) The parties to the contract are encouraged to consult during the development of the POR and following submission of the POR to the Secretary.
§ 900.118
Do these “construction contract” regulations apply to construction management services?
No. Construction management services may be contracted separately under section 108 of the Act. Construction management services consultants and/or Indian tribe or tribal organization employees assist and advise the Indian tribe or tribal organization to implement construction contracts, but have no contractual relationship with or authority to direct construction contract subcontractors.
(a) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization chooses to contract solely for construction management services, these services shall be limited to:
(1) Coordination and exchange of information between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary;
(2) Review of work produced by the Secretary to determine compliance with:
(i) The POR and design contract during the design stage; or
(ii) The project construction documents during the construction stage;
(3) Disputes shall be resolved in accordance with the disputes clause of the CMS contract.
(b) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization conducts CMS under section 108 of the Act and the Indian tribe or
tribal organization contracts separately under this subpart for all or some of the activities in § 900.110, the contracted activities shall be limited to:
(1) Coordination and exchange of information between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and Secretary;
(2) Preparation of tribal or tribal organization construction subcontract scope of work identification and subcontract preparation, and competitive selection of tribal or tribal organization construction contract subcontractors;
(3) Review of work produced by tribal or tribal organization construction subcontractors to determine compliance with:
(i) The POR and the design contract during the design stage; or
(ii) The project construction documents during the construction stage.
§ 900.119
To what extent shall the Secretary consult with affected Indian tribes before spending funds for any construction project?
Before spending any funds for a planning, design, construction, or renovation project, whether subject to a competitive application and ranking process or not, the Secretary shall consult with any Indian tribe or tribal organization(s) that would be significantly affected by the expenditure to determine and to follow tribal preferences to the greatest extent feasible concerning: size, location, type, and other characteristics of the project.
§ 900.120
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization find out about a construction project?
Within 30 days after the Secretary's allocation of funds for planning phase, design phase, or construction phase activities for a specific project, the Secretary shall notify, by registered mail with return receipt in order to document mailing, the Indian tribe or tribal organization(s) to be benefitted by the availability of the funds for each phase of a project. The Secretarial notice of fund allocation shall offer technical assistance in the preparation of a contract proposal.
(a) The Secretary shall, within 30 days after receiving a request from an Indian tribe or tribal organization, furnish the Indian tribe or tribal organization with all information available to the Secretary about the project including, but not limited to: construction drawings, maps, engineering reports, design reports, plans of requirements, cost estimates, environmental assessments, or environmental impact reports and archeological reports.
(b) An Indian tribe or tribal organization is not required to request this information prior to submitting a notification of intent to contract or a contract proposal.
(c) The Secretary shall have a continuing responsibility to furnish information.
§ 900.121
What happens during the preplanning phase and can an Indian tribe or tribal organization perform any of the activities involved in this process?
(a) The application and ranking process for developing a priority listing of projects varies between agencies. There are, however, steps in the selection process that are common to most selection processes. An Indian tribe or tribal organization that wishes to secure a construction project should contact the appropriate agency to determine the specific steps involved in the application and selection process used to fund specific types of projects. When a priority process is used in the selection of construction projects, the steps involved in the application and ranking process are as follows:
(1)
Application.
The agency solicits applications from Indian tribes or tribal organizations. In the request for applications, the Secretary provides specific information regarding the type of project to be funded, the objective criteria that will be used to evaluate applications, the points or weight that each criterion will be assigned, and the time when applications are due. An Indian tribe or tribal organization may prepare the application (technical assistance from the agency, within resources available, shall be provided upon request from an Indian tribe or tribal organization) or may rely upon the agency to prepare the application.
(2)
Ranking/Prioritization.
The Secretary evaluates the applications based on the criteria provided as part of the application preparation process. The
Secretary applies only criteria and weights assigned to each criteria that were disclosed to the Indian tribe or tribal organization during the application stage. The applications are then ranked in order from the application that best meets application criteria to the application that least meet the application criteria.
(3)
Validation.
Before final acceptance of a ranked application, the information, such as demographic information, deficiency levels reported in application, the condition of existing facilities, and program housing needs, is validated. During this process, additional information may be developed by the Indian tribe or tribal organization in support of the original information or the Secretary may designate a representative of the Department to conduct an on-site review of the information contained in the application.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 900.122
What does an Indian tribe or tribal organization do if it wants to secure a construction contract?
(a) The Act establishes a special process for review and negotiation of proposals for construction contracts which is different than that for other self-determination contract proposals. The Indian tribe or tribal organization should notify the Secretary of its intent to contract. After notification, the Indian tribe or tribal organization should prepare its contract proposal in accordance with the sections of this subpart. While developing its construction contract proposal, the Indian tribe or tribal organization can request technical assistance from the Secretary. Not later than 30 days after receiving a request from an Indian tribe or tribal organization, the Secretary shall provide to the Indian tribe or tribal organization all information available about the construction project, including construction drawings, maps, engineering reports, design reports, plans of requirements, cost estimates, environmental assessments, or environmental impact reports, and archaeological reports. The responsibility of the Secretary to furnish this information shall be a continuing one.
(b) At the request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization and before finalizing its construction contract proposal, the Secretary shall provide for a precontract negotiation phase during the development of a contract proposal. Within 30 days the Secretary shall acknowledge receipt of the proposal and, if requested by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, shall confer with the Indian tribe or tribal organization to develop a negotiation schedule. The negotiation phase shall include, at a minimum:
(1) The provision of technical assistance under section 103 of the Act and paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) A joint scoping session between the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization to review all plans, specifications, engineering reports, cost estimates, and other information available to the parties, for the purpose of identifying all areas of agreement and disagreement;
(3) An opportunity for the Secretary to revise plans, designs, or cost estimates of the Secretary in response to concerns raised, or information provided by, the Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(4) A negotiation session during which the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall seek to develop a mutually agreeable contract proposal; and
(5) Upon the request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, the use of alternative dispute resolution to resolve remaining areas of disagreement under the dispute resolution provisions under subchapter IV of chapter 5 of the United States Code.
§ 900.123
What happens if the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary cannot develop a mutually agreeable contract proposal?
(a) If the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization are unable to develop a mutually agreeable construction contract proposal under the procedures in § 900.122, the Indian tribe or tribal organization may submit a final contract proposal to the Secretary. Not later than 30 days after receiving the final contract proposal, the Secretary shall approve the contract proposal and award the contract, unless, during the period the Secretary declines the proposal under sections
102(a)(2) and 102(b) of the Act (including providing opportunity for an appeal under section 102(b)).
(b) Whenever the Secretary declines to enter into a self-determination contract or contracts under section 102(a)(2) of the Act, the Secretary shall:
(1) State any objections to the contract proposal (as submitted by the Indian tribe or tribal organization) in writing and provide all documents relied on in making the declination decision within 20 days of such decision to the Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(2) Provide assistance to the Indian tribe or tribal organization to overcome the stated objections;
(3) Provide the Indian tribe or tribal organization with a hearing on the record with the right to engage in full discovery relevant to any issue raised in the matter and the opportunity for appeal on the objections raised, under the regulations set forth in subpart L, except that the Indian tribe or tribal organization may, in lieu of filing the appeal, initiate an action in a Federal district court and proceed directly under section 110(a) of the Act.
§ 900.124
May the Indian tribe or tribal organization elect to use a grant in lieu of a contract?
Yes. A grant agreement or a cooperative agreement may be used in lieu of a contract under sections 102 and 103 of the Act when agreed to by the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization. Under the grant concept, the grantee will assume full responsibility and accountability for design and construction performance within the funding limitations. The grantee will manage and administer the work with minimal involvement by the government. The grantee will be expected to have acceptable management systems for finance, procurement, and property. The Secretary may issue Federal construction guidelines and manuals applicable to its construction programs, and the government shall accept tribal proposals for alternatives which are consistent with or exceed Federal guidelines or manuals applicable to construction programs.
§ 900.125
What shall a construction contract proposal contain?
(a) In addition to the full name, address, and telephone number of the Indian tribe or tribal organization submitting the construction proposal, a construction contract proposal shall contain descriptions of the following standards under which they propose to operate the contract:
(1) The use of licensed and qualified architects;
(2) Applicable health and safety standards;
(3) Adherence to applicable Federal, State, local, or tribal building codes and engineering standards;
(4) Structural integrity;
(5) Accountability of funds;
(6) Adequate competition for subcontracting under tribal or other applicable law;
(7) The commencement, performance, and completion of the contract;
(8) Adherence to project plans and specifications (including any applicable Federal construction guidelines and manuals and the Secretary shall accept tribal proposals for alternatives which are consistent with or exceed Federal guidelines or manuals applicable to construction programs);
(9) The use of proper materials and workmanship;
(10) Necessary inspection and testing;
(11) With respect to the self-determination contract between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and Federal government, a process for changes, modifications, stop work, and termination of the work when warranted;
(b) In addition to provisions regarding the program standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section or the assurances listed in paragraph (c) of this section, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall also include in its construction contract proposal the following:
(1) In the case of a contract for design activities, this statement, “Construction documents produced as part of this contract will be produced in accordance with the Program of Requirements and/or Scope of Work,” and the POR and/or Scope of Work shall be attached to the contract proposal. If tribal construction procedures, standards
and methods (including national, regional, state, or tribal building codes or construction industry standards) are consistent with or exceed applicable Federal standards then the Secretary shall accept the tribally proposed standards; and
(2) In the case of a contract for construction activities, this statement, “The facility will be built in accordance with the construction documents produced as a part of design activities. The project documents, including plans and specifications, are hereby incorporated into this contract through this reference.” If tribal construction procedures, standards and methods (including national, regional, state, or tribal building codes or construction industry standards) are consistent with or exceed applicable Federal standards then the Secretary shall accept the tribally proposed standards; and
(3) Proposed methods to accommodate the responsibilities of the Secretary provided in § 900.131; and
(4) Proposed methods to accommodate the responsibilities of the Indian tribe or tribal organization provided in § 900.130 unless otherwise addressed in paragraph (a) of this section and minimum staff qualifications proposed by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, if any;
(5) A contract budget as described in § 900.127; and
(6) A period of performance for the conduct of all activities to be contracted;
(7) A payment schedule as described in § 900.132;
(8) A statement indicating whether or not the Indian tribe or tribal organization has a CMS contract related to this project;
(9) Current (unrevoked) authorizing resolutions in accordance with § 900.5(d) from all Indian tribes benefitting from the contract proposal; and
(10) Any responsibilities, in addition to the Federal responsibilities listed in § 900.131, which the Indian tribe or tribal organization proposes the Federal government perform to assist with the completion of the scope of work;
(c) The Indian tribe or tribal organization will provide the following assurances in its contract proposal:
(1) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization elects not to take title (pursuant to subpart I) to Federal property used in carrying out the contract, “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will not dispose of, modify the use of, or change the terms of the real property title, or other interest in the site and facilities without permission and instructions from the awarding agency. The Indian tribe or tribal organization will record the Federal interest in the title of real property in accordance with awarding agency directives and will include a covenant in the title of real property acquired in whole or in part with Federal assistance funds to assure nondiscrimination during the useful life of the project”; and
(2) “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will comply with the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4801
et seq.
)” which prohibits the use of lead based paint in construction or rehabilitation of residential structures;
(3) “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will comply, or has already complied, with the requirements of titles II and III of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646),” which provides for fair and equitable treatment of persons displaced or whose property is acquired as a result of Federal participation in purchases; and
(4) “Except for work performed by tribal or tribal organization employees, the Indian tribe or tribal organization will comply, as applicable, with the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276c and 18 U.S.C. 874),” for Federally assisted construction subagreements;
(5) “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will comply with the flood insurance purchase requirements of section 102(a) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234),” which requires recipients in a special flood hazard area to participate in the program and to purchase flood insurance if the total cost of insurable construction and acquisition is $10,000 or more;
(6) “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will comply with all applicable
Federal environmental laws, regulations, and Executive Orders;”
(7) “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will comply with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. 1271
et seq.
) related to protecting the components or potential components of the national wild and scenic rivers system;”
(8) “The Indian tribe or tribal organization will assist the awarding agency in assuring compliance with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), EO 11593 (identification and preservation of historic properties), and the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469a-1
et seq.
).”
(d) The Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary will both make a good faith effort to identify any other applicable Federal laws, Executive Orders, or regulations applicable to the contract, share them with the other party, and refer to them in the construction contract. The parties will make a good faith effort to identify tribal laws, ordinances, and resolutions which may affect either party in the performance of the contract.
§ 900.126
Shall a construction contract proposal incorporate provisions of Federal construction guidelines and manuals?
Each agency may provide or the Indian tribe or tribal organization may request Federal construction guidelines and manuals for consideration by the Indian tribe or tribal organization in the preparation of its contract proposal. If tribal construction procedures, standards and methods (including national, regional, State, or tribal building codes or construction industry standards) are consistent with or exceed applicable Federal standards, the Secretary shall accept the tribally proposed standards.
§ 900.127
What can be included in the Indian tribe or tribal organization's contract budget?
(a) The costs incurred will vary depending on which phase (see § 900.112) of the construction process the Indian tribe or tribal organization is conducting and the type of contract that will be used. The total amount awarded under a construction contract shall reflect an overall fair and reasonable price to the parties (see § 900.129).
(b) Costs for activities under this subpart that have not been billed, allocated, or recovered under a contract issued under section 108 of the Act should be included.
(c) The Indian tribe or tribal organization's budget should include the cost elements that reflect an overall fair and reasonable price. These costs include:
(1) The reasonable costs to the Indian tribe or tribal organization of performing the contract, taking into consideration the terms of the contract and the requirements of the Act and any other applicable law;
(2) The costs of preparing the contract proposal and supporting cost data;
(3) The costs associated with auditing the general and administrative costs of the Indian tribe or tribal organization associated with the management of the construction contract; and
(4) In cases where the Indian tribe or tribal organization is submitting a fixed-price construction contract:
(i) The reasonable costs to the Indian tribe or tribal organization for general administration incurred in connection with the project that is the subject of the contract;
(ii) The ability of the contractor that carries out the construction contract to make a reasonable profit, taking into consideration the risks associated with carrying out the contract, local market conditions, and other relevant considerations.
(d) In establishing a contract budget for a construction project, the Secretary shall not be required to identify separately the components described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(e) The Indian tribe or tribal organization's budget proposal includes a detailed budget breakdown for performing the scope of work including a total “not to exceed” dollar amount with which to perform the scope of work. Specific budget line items, if requested by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, can include the following:
(1) The administrative costs the Indian tribe or tribal organization may incur including:
(i) Personnel needed to provide administrative oversight of the contract;
(ii) Travel costs incurred, both local travel incurred as a direct result of conducting the contract and remote travel necessary to review project status with the Secretary;
(iii) Meeting costs incurred while meeting with community residents to develop project documents;
(iv) Fees to be paid to consultants, such as demographic consultants, planning consultants, attorneys, accountants, and personnel who will provide construction management services;
(2) The fees to be paid to architects and engineers to assist in preparing project documents and to assist in oversight of the construction process;
(3) The fees to be paid to develop project surveys including topographical surveys, site boundary descriptions, geotechnical surveys, archeological surveys, and NEPA compliance, and;
(4) In the case of a contract to conduct project construction activities, the fees to provide a part-time or full-time on-site inspector, depending on the terms of the contract, to monitor construction activities;
(5) In the case of a contract to conduct project construction activities, project site development costs;
(6) In the case of a contract to conduct project construction activities, project construction costs including those costs described in paragraph (c)(4), of this section;
(7) The cost of securing and installing moveable equipment, telecommunications and data processing equipment, furnishings, including works of art, and special purpose equipment when part of a construction contract;
(8) A contingency amount for unanticipated conditions of the construction phase of cost-reimbursable contracts. The amount of the contingency provided shall be 3 percent of activities being contracted or 50 percent of the available contingency funds, whichever is greater. In the event provision of required contingency funds will cause the project to exceed available project funds, the discrepancy shall be reconciled in accordance with § 900.129(e). Any additional contingency funds for the construction phase will be negotiated on an as-needed basis subject to the availability of funds and the nature, scope, and complexity of the project. Any contingency for other phases will be negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis. Unused contingency funds obligated to the contract and remaining at the end of the contract will be considered savings.
(9) Other costs incurred that are directly related to the conduct of contract activities.
§ 900.128
What funding shall the Secretary provide in a construction contract?
The Secretary shall provide an amount under a construction contract that reflects an overall fair and reasonable price to the parties. These costs include:
(a) The reasonable costs to the Indian tribe or tribal organization of performing the contract, taking into consideration the terms of the contract and the requirements of the Act and any other applicable law;
(b) The costs of preparing the contract proposal and supporting cost data; and
(c) The costs associated with auditing the general and administrative costs of the tribal organization associated with the management of the construction contract; and
(d) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization is submitting a fixed-price construction contract:
(1) The reasonable costs to the Indian tribe or tribal organization for general administration incurred in connection with the project that is the subject of the contract;
(2) The ability of the contractor that carries out the construction contract to make a reasonable profit, taking into consideration the risks associated with carrying out the contract, local market conditions, and other relevant considerations including but not limited to contingency.
(3) In establishing a contract budget for a construction project, the Secretary is not required to identify separately the components described in paragraph (d) (1) and (d) (2) of this sections.
§ 900.129
How do the Secretary and Indian tribe or tribal organization arrive at an overall fair and reasonable price for the performance of a construction contract?
(a) Throughout the contract award process, the Secretary and Indian tribe or tribal organization shall share all construction project cost information available to them in order to facilitate reaching agreement on an overall fair and reasonable price for the project or part thereof. In order to enhance this communication, the government's estimate of an overall fair and reasonable price shall:
(1) Contain a level of detail appropriate to the nature and phase of the work and sufficient to allow comparisons to the Indian tribe or tribal organization's estimate;
(2) Be prepared in a format coordinated with the Indian tribe or tribal organization; and
(3) Include the cost elements contained in section 105(m)(4) of the Act.
(b) The government's cost estimate shall be an independent cost estimate based on such information as the following:
(1) Prior costs to the government for similar projects adjusted for comparison to the target location, typically in unit costs, such as dollars per pound, square meter cost of building, or other unit cost that can be used to make a comparison;
(2) Actual costs previously incurred by the Indian tribe or tribal organization for similar projects;
(3) Published price lists, to include regional adjustment factors, for materials, equipment, and labor; and
(4) Projections of inflation and cost trends, including projected changes such as labor, material, and transportation costs.
(c) The Secretary shall provide the initial government cost estimate to the Indian tribe or tribal organization and make appropriate revisions based on concerns raised or information provided by the Indian tribe or tribal organization. The Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall continue to revise, as appropriate, their respective cost estimates based on changed or additional information such as the following:
(1) Actual subcontract bids;
(2) Changes in inflation rates and market conditions, including local market conditions;
(3) Cost and price analyses conducted by the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization during negotiations;
(4) Agreed-upon changes in the size, scope and schedule of the construction project; and
(5) Agreed-upon changes in project plans and specifications.
(d) Considering all of the information available, the Secretary and the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall negotiate the amount of the construction contract. The objective of the negotiations is to arrive at an amount that is fair under current market conditions and reasonable to both the government and the Indian tribe or tribal organization. As a result, the agreement does not necessarily have to be in strict conformance with either party's cost estimate nor does agreement have to be reached on every element of cost, but only on the overall fair and reasonable price of each phase of the work included in the contract.
(e) If the fair and reasonable price arrived at under paragraph (d) of this section would exceed the amount available to the Secretary, then:
(1) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization elects to submit a final proposal, the Secretary may decline the proposal under section 105(m)(4)(C)(v) of the Act or if the contract has been awarded, dispute the matter under the Contract Disputes Act; or
(2) If requested by the Indian tribe or tribal organization:
(i) The Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Secretary may jointly explore methods of expanding the available funds through the use of contingency funds, advance payments in accordance with § 900.132, rebudgeting, or seeking additional appropriations; or
(ii) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may elect to propose a reduction in project scope to bring the project price within available funds; or
(iii) The Secretary and Indian tribe or tribal organization may agree that the project be executed in phases.
§ 900.130
What role does the Indian tribe or tribal organization play during the performance of a self-determination construction contract?
(a) The Indian tribe or tribal organization is responsible for the successful completion of the project in accordance with the approved contract documents.
(b) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization is contracting to perform design phase activities, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall have the following responsibilities:
(1) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall subcontract with or provide the services of licensed and qualified architects and other consultants needed to accomplish the self-determination construction contract.
(2) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall administer and disburse funds provided through the contract in accordance with subpart F, § 900.42 through § 900.45 and implement a property management system in accordance with subpart F, § 900.51 through § 900.60.
(3) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall direct the activities of project architects, engineers, and other project consultants, facilitate the flow of information between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and its subcontractors, resolve disputes between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and its subcontractors or between its subcontractors, and monitor the work produced by its subcontractors to ensure compliance with the POR.
(4) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall direct the work of its subcontractors so that work produced is provided in accordance with the contract budget and contract performance period as negotiated between and agreed to by the parties.
(5) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall provide the Secretary with an opportunity to review and provide written comments on the project plans and specifications only at the concept phase, the schematic phase (or the preliminary design), the design development phase, and the final construction documents phase and approve the project plans and specifications for general compliance with contract requirements only at the schematic phase (or the preliminary design) and the final construction documents phase or as otherwise negotiated.
(6) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall provide the Secretary with the plans and specifications after their final review so, if needed, the Secretary may obtain an independent government cost estimate in accordance with § 900.131(b)(4) for the construction of the project.
(7) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall retain project records and design documents for a minimum of 3 years following completion of the contract.
(8) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall provide progress reports and financial status reports quarterly, or as negotiated, that contain a narrative of the work accomplished, including but not limited to descriptions of contracts, major subcontracts, and modifications implemented during the report period and A/E service deliverables, the percentage of the work completed, a report of funds expended during the reporting period, and total funds expended for the project. The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall also provide copies, for the information of the Secretary, of an initial work and payment schedule and updates as they may occur.
(c) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization is contracting to perform project construction phase activities, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall have the following responsibilities:
(1) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall subcontract with or provide the services of licensed and qualified architects and other consultants as needed to accomplish the self-determination construction contract.
(2) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall administer and dispense funds provided through the contract in accordance with subpart F, § 900.42 through § 900.45 and implement a property management system in accordance with subpart F, § 900.51 through § 900.60.
(3) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall subcontract with or provide the services of construction contractors or provide its own forces to
conduct construction activities in accordance with the project construction documents or as otherwise negotiated between and agreed to by the parties.
(4) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall direct the activities of project architects, engineers, construction contractors, and other project consultants, facilitate the flow of information between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and its subcontractors, resolve disputes between itself and its subcontractors or between its subcontractors, and monitor the work produced by its subcontractors to assure compliance with the project plans and specifications.
(5) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall manage or provide for the management of day-to-day activities of the contract including the issuance of construction change orders to subcontractors except that, unless the Secretary agrees:
(i) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may not issue a change order to a construction subcontractor that will cause the Indian tribe or tribal organization to exceed its self-determination contract budget;
(ii) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may not issue a change order to a construction subcontractor that will cause the Indian tribe or tribal organization to exceed the performance period in its self-determination contract budget; or
(iii) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may not issue to a construction subcontractor a change order that is a significant departure from the scope or objective of the project.
(6) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall direct the work of its subcontractors so that work produced is provided in accordance with the contract budget and performance period as negotiated between and agreed to by the parties.
(7) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall provide to the Secretary progress and financial status reports.
(i) The reports shall be provided quarterly, or as negotiated, and shall contain a narrative of the work accomplished, the percentage of the work completed, a report of funds expended during the reporting period, and total funds expended for the project.
(ii) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall also provide copies, for the information of the Secretary, of an initial schedule of values and updates as they may occur, and an initial construction schedule and updates as they occur.
(8) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall maintain on the job-site or project office, and make available to the Secretary during monitoring visits: contracts, major subcontracts, modifications, construction documents, change orders, shop drawings, equipment cut sheets, inspection reports, testing reports, and current redline drawings.
(d) Upon completion of the project, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall provide to the Secretary a reproducible copy of the record plans and a contract closeout report.
(e) For cost-reimbursable projects, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall not be obligated to continue performance that requires an expenditure of more funds than were awarded under the contract. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization has a reason to believe that the total amount required for performance of the contract will be greater than the amount of funds awarded, it shall provide reasonable notice to the Secretary. If the Secretary does not increase the amount of funds awarded under the contract, the Indian tribe or tribal organization may suspend performance of the contract until sufficient additional funds are awarded.
§ 900.131
What role does the Secretary play during the performance of a self-determination construction contract?
(a) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization is contracting solely to perform construction management services either under this subpart or section 108 of the Act, the Secretary has the following responsibilities:
(1) The Secretary is responsible for the successful completion of the project in accordance with the approved contract documents. In fulfilling those responsibilities, the Secretary shall consult with the Indian tribe or tribal organization on a regular basis as agreed to by the parties to
facilitate the exchange of information between the Indian tribe or tribal organization and Secretary;
(2) The Secretary shall provide the Indian tribe or tribal organization with regular opportunities to review work produced to determine compliance with the following documents:
(i) The POR, during the conduct of design phase activities. The Secretary shall provide the Indian tribe or tribal organization with an opportunity to review the project construction documents at the concept phase, the schematic phase, the design development phase, and the final construction documents phase, or as otherwise negotiated. Upon receipt of project construction documents for review, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall not take more than 21 days to make available to the Secretary any comments or objections to the construction documents as submitted by the Secretary. Resolution of any comments or objections shall be in accordance with dispute resolution procedures as agreed to by the parties and contained in the contract; or
(ii) The project construction documents, during conduct of the construction phase activities. The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall have the right to conduct monthly or critical milestone on-site monitoring visits or as negotiated with the Secretary;
(b) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization is contracting to perform design and/or construction phase activities, the Secretary shall have the following responsibilities:
(1) In carrying out the responsibilities of this section, and specifically in carrying out review, comment, and approval functions under this section, the Secretary shall provide for full tribal participation in the decision making process and shall honor tribal preferences and recommendations to the greatest extent feasible. This includes promptly notifying the Indian tribe or tribal organization of any concerns or issues in writing that may lead to disapproval, meeting with the Indian tribe or tribal organization to discuss these concerns and issues and to share relevant information and documents, and making a good faith effort to resolve all issues and concerns of the Indian tribe or tribal organization. The time allowed for Secretarial review, comment, and approval shall be no more than 21 days per review unless a different time period is negotiated and specified in individual contracts. The 21-day time period may be extended if the Indian tribe or tribal organization agrees to the extension in writing. Disagreements over the Secretary's decisions in carrying out these responsibilities shall be handled under subpart N governing contract disputes under the Contract Disputes Act.
(2) To the extent the construction project is subject to NEPA or other environmental laws, the appropriate Secretary shall make the final determination under such laws. All other environmentally related functions are contractible.
(3) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization conducts planning activities under this subpart, the Secretary shall review and approve final planning documents for the project to ensure compliance with applicable planning standards.
(4) When a contract or portion of a contract is for project construction activities, the Secretary may rely on the Indian tribe or tribal organization's cost estimate or the Secretary may obtain an independent government cost estimate that is derived from the final project plans and specifications. The Secretary shall obtain the cost estimate, if any, within 90 days or less of receiving the final plans and specifications from the Indian tribe or tribal organization and shall provide all supporting documentation of the independent cost estimate to the Indian tribe or tribal organization within the 90 day time limit.
(5) If the contracted project involves design activities, the Secretary shall have the authority to review for general compliance with the contract requirements and provide written comments on the project plans and specifications only at the concept phase, the schematic phase, the design development phase and the final construction documents phase, and approve for general compliance with contract requirements the project plans and specifications only at the schematic phase and
the final construction documents phase or as otherwise negotiated.
(6) If the contracted project involves design activities, the Secretary reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish or otherwise use, for Federal government purposes:
(i) The copyright in any work developed under a contract or subcontract of this subpart; and
(ii) Any rights of copyright to which an Indian tribe or tribal organization or a tribal subcontractor purchases ownership through this contract.
(7) Changes that require an increase to the negotiated contract budget or an increase in the negotiated performance period or are a significant departure from the scope or objective of the project shall require approval of the Secretary.
(8) Review and comment on specific shop drawings as negotiated and specified in individual contracts.
(9) The Secretary may conduct monthly on-site monitoring visits, or alternatively if negotiated with the Indian tribe or tribal organization, critical milestone on-site monitoring visits.
(10) The Secretary retains the right to conduct final project inspections jointly with the Indian tribe or tribal organization and to accept the building or facility. If the Secretary identifies problems during final project inspections the information shall be provide to the Indian tribe or tribal organization and shall be limited to items that are materially noncompliant.
(11) The Secretary can require an Indian tribe or tribal organization to suspend work under a contract in accordance with this paragraph. The Secretary may suspend a contract for no more than 30 days unless the Indian tribe or tribal organization has failed to correct the reason(s) for the suspension or unless the cause of the suspension cannot be resolved through either the efforts of the Secretary or the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(i) The following are reasons the Secretary may suspend work under a self-determination contract for construction:
(A) Differing site conditions encountered upon commencement of construction activities that impact health or safety concerns or shall require an increase in the negotiated project budget;
(B) The Secretary discovers materially non-compliant work;
(C) Funds allocated for the project that is the subject of this contract are rescinded by Congressional action; or
(D) Other Congressional actions occur that materially affect the subject matter of the contract.
(ii) If the Secretary wishes to suspend the work, the Secretary shall first provide written notice and an opportunity for the Indian tribe or tribal organization to correct the problem. The Secretary may direct the Indian tribe or tribal organization to suspend temporarily work under a contract only after providing a minimum of 5 working days' advance written notice to the Indian tribe or tribal organization describing the nature of the performance deficiencies or imminent safety, health or environmental issues which are the cause for suspending the work.
(iii) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall be compensated for reasonable costs, including but not limited to overhead costs, incurred due to any suspension of work that occurred through no fault of the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(iv) Disputes arising as a result of a suspension of the work by the Secretary shall be subject to the Contract Disputes Act or any other alternative dispute resolution mechanism as negotiated between and agreed to by the parties and contained in the contract.
(12) The Secretary can terminate the project for cause in the event non-compliant work is not corrected through the suspension process specified in paragraph (11) of this section.
(13) The Secretary retains authority to terminate the project for convenience for the following reasons:
(i) Termination for convenience is requested by the Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(ii) Termination for convenience is requested by the Secretary and agreed to by the Indian tribe or tribal organization;
(iii) Funds allocated for the project that is the subject of the contract are rescinded by Congressional action;
(iv) Other Congressional actions take place that affect the subject matter of the contract;
(v) If the Secretary terminates a self-determination construction contract for convenience, the Secretary shall provide the Indian tribe or tribal organization 21 days advance written notice of intent to terminate a contract for convenience; or
(vi) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall be compensated for reasonable costs incurred due to termination of the contract.
§ 900.132
Once a contract and/or grant is awarded, how will the Indian tribe or tribal organization receive payments?
(a) A schedule for advance payments shall be developed based on progress, need, and other considerations in accordance with applicable law. The payment schedule shall be negotiated by the parties and included in the contract. The payment schedule may be adjusted as negotiated by the parties during the course of the project based on progress and need.
(b) Payments shall be made to the Indian tribe or tribal organization according to the payment schedule contained in the contract. If the contract does not provide for the length of each allocation period, the Secretary shall make payments to the Indian tribe or tribal organization at least quarterly. Each allocation shall be adequate to provide funds for the contract activities anticipated to be conducted during the allocation period, except that:
(1) The first allocation may be greater than subsequent allocations and include mobilization costs, and contingency funds described in § 900.128(e)(8); and
(2) Any allocation may include funds for payment for materials that will be used during subsequent allocation periods.
(c) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may propose a schedule of payment amounts measured by time or measured by phase of the project (e.g., planning, design, construction).
(d) The amount of each payment allocation shall be stated in the Indian tribe or tribal organization's contract proposal. Upon award of the contract, the Secretary shall transfer the amount of the first allocation to the Indian tribe or tribal organization within 21 days after the date of contract award. The second allocation shall be made not later than 7 days before the end of the first allocation period.
(e) Not later than 7 days before the end of each subsequent allocation period after the second allocation, the Secretary shall transfer to the Indian tribe or tribal organization the amount for the next allocation period, unless the Indian tribe or tribal organization is delinquent in submission of allocation period progress reports and financial reports or the Secretary takes action to suspend or terminate the contract in accordance with § 900.131(b)(11), § 900.131(b)(12), or § 900.131(b)(13).
§ 900.133
Does the declination process or the Contract Dispute Act apply to construction contract amendments proposed either by an Indian tribe or tribal organization or the Secretary?
The Contract Disputes Act generally applies to such amendments. However, the declination process and the procedures in §§ 900.122 and 900.123 apply to the proposal by an Indian tribe or tribal organization when the proposal is for a new project, a new phase or discreet stage of a phase of a project, or an expansion of a project resulting from an additional allocation of funds by the Secretary under § 900.120.
§ 900.134
At the end of a self-determination construction contract, what happens to savings on a cost-reimbursement contract?
The savings shall be used by the Indian tribe or tribal organization to provide additional services or benefits under the contract. Unexpended contingency funds obligated to the contract, and remaining at the end of the contract, are savings. No further approval or justifying documentation by the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall be required before expenditure of funds.
§ 900.135
May the time frames for action set out in this subpart be reduced?
Yes. The time frames in this subpart are intended to be maximum times and may be reduced based on urgency and need, by agreement of the parties. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization requests reduced time frames for action due to unusual or special conditions (such as limited construction periods), the Secretary shall make a good faith effort to accommodate the requested time frames.
§ 900.136
Do tribal employment rights ordinances apply to construction contracts and subcontracts?
Yes. Tribal employment rights ordinances do apply to construction contracts and subcontracts pursuant to section 7(b) and section 7(c) of the Act.
§ 900.137
Do all provisions of the other subparts apply to contracts awarded under this subpart?
Yes, except as otherwise provided in this subpart and unless excluded as follows: programmatic reports and data requirements, reassumption, contract review and approval process, contract proposal contents, and § 900.150 (d) and (e) of these regulations.

# Subpart K—Waiver Procedures
§ 900.140
Can any provision of the regulations under this part be waived?
Yes. Upon the request of an Indian tribe or tribal organization, the Secretary shall waive any provision of these regulations, including any cost principles adopted by the regulations under this part, if the Secretary finds that granting the waiver is either in the best interest of the Indians served by the contract, or is consistent with the policies of the Act and is not contrary to statutory law.
§ 900.141
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization get a waiver?
To obtain a waiver, an Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit a written request to the Secretary identifying the regulation to be waived and the basis for the request. The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall explain the intended effect of the waiver, the impact upon the Indian tribe or tribal organization if the waiver is not granted, and the specific contract(s) to which the waiver will apply.
§ 900.142
Does an Indian tribe or tribal organization's waiver request have to be included in an initial contract proposal?
No. Although a waiver request may be included in a contract proposal, it can also be submitted separately.
§ 900.143
How is a waiver request processed?
The Secretary shall approve or deny a waiver within 90 days after the Secretary receives a written waiver request. The Secretary's decision shall be in writing. If the requested waiver is denied, the Secretary shall include in the decision a full explanation of the basis for the decision.
§ 900.144
What happens if the Secretary makes no decision within the 90-day period?
The waiver request is deemed approved.
§ 900.145
On what basis may the Secretary deny a waiver request?
Consistent with section 107(e) of the Act, the Secretary may only deny a waiver request based on a specific written finding. The finding must clearly demonstrate (or be supported by controlling legal authority) that if the waiver is granted:
(a) The service to be rendered to the Indian beneficiaries of the particular program or function to be contracted will not be satisfactory;
(b) Adequate protection of trust resources is not assured;
(c) The proposed project or function to be contracted for cannot be properly completed or maintained by the proposed contract;
(d) The amount of funds proposed under the contract is in excess of the applicable funding level for the contract, as determined under section 106(a) of the Act; or
(e) The program, function, service, or activity (or portion of it) that is the subject of the proposal is beyond the scope of programs, functions, services, or activities that are contractible
under the Act because the proposal includes activities that cannot lawfully be carried out by the contractor.
§ 900.146
Is technical assistance available for waiver requests?
Yes. Technical assistance is available as provided in § 900.7 to prepare a waiver request or to overcome any stated objection which the Secretary might have to the request.
§ 900.147
What appeal rights are available?
If the Secretary denies a waiver request, the Indian tribe or tribal organization has the right to appeal the decision and request a hearing on the record under the procedures for hearings and appeals contained in subpart L of these regulations. Alternatively, the Indian tribe or tribal organization may sue in Federal district court to challenge the Secretary's action.
§ 900.148
How can an Indian tribe or tribal organization secure a determination that a law or regulation has been superseded by the Indian Self-Determination Act, as specified in section 107(b) of the Act?
Any Indian tribe or tribal organization may at any time submit a request to the Secretary for a determination that any law or regulation has been superseded by the Act and that the law has no applicability to any contract or proposed contract under the Act. The Secretary is required to provide an initial decision on such a request within 90 days after receipt. If such a request is denied, the Indian tribe or tribal organization may appeal under subpart L of these regulations. The Secretary shall provide notice of each determination made under this subpart to all Indian tribes and tribal organizations.

# Subpart L—Appeals

# Appeals Other Than Emergency Reassumption and Suspension, Withholding or Delay in Payment
§ 900.150
What decisions can an Indian tribe or tribal organization appeal under this subpart?
(a) A decision to decline to award a self-determination contract, or a portion thereof, under section 102 of the Act;
(b) A decision to decline to award a construction contract, or a portion thereof, under sections 105(m) and 102 of the Act;
(c) A decision to decline a proposed amendment to a self-determination contract, or a portion thereof, under section 102 of the Act;
(d) A decision not to approve a proposal, in whole or in part, to redesign a program;
(e) A decision to rescind and reassume a self-determination contract, in whole or in part, under section 109 of the Act except for emergency reassumptions;
(f) A decision to refuse to waive a regulation under section 107(e) of the Act;
(g) A disagreement between an Indian tribe or tribal organization and the Federal government over proposed reporting requirements;
(h) A decision to refuse to allow an Indian tribe or tribal organization to convert a contract to mature status, under section 4(h) of the Act;
(i) All other appealable pre-award decisions by a Federal official as specified in these regulations, whether an official of the Department of the Interior or the Department of Health and Human Services; or
(j) A decision relating to a request for a determination that a law or regulation has been superseded by the Act.
§ 900.151
Are there any appeals this subpart does not cover?
This subpart does not cover:
(a) Disputes which arise after a self-determination contract has been awarded, or emergency reassumption of self-determination contracts or suspension of payments under self-determination contracts, which are covered under § 900.170 through § 900.176 of these regulations.
(b) Other post-award contract disputes, which are covered under subpart N.
(c) Denials under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, which may be appealed under 43 CFR 2 for the Department of the Interior and 45 CFR 5 for the Department of Health and Human Services; and
(d) Decisions relating to the award of discretionary grants under section 103 of the Act, which may be appealed under 25 CFR 2 for the Department of the Interior, and under 45 CFR 5 for the Department of Health and Human Services.
§ 900.152
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization know where and when to file its appeal from decisions made by agencies of DOI or DHHS?
Every decision in any of the ten areas listed above shall contain information which shall tell the Indian tribe or tribal organization where and when to file the Indian tribe or tribal organization's appeal. Each decision shall include the following statement:
Within 30 days of the receipt of this decision, you may request an informal conference under 25 CFR 900.154, or appeal this decision under 25 CFR 900.158 to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals (IBIA). Should you decide to appeal this decision, you may request a hearing on the record. An appeal to the IBIA under 25 CFR 900.158 shall be filed with the IBIA by certified mail or by hand delivery at the following address: Board of Indian Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203. You shall serve copies of your Notice of Appeal on the Secretary and on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the IBIA that you have served these copies.
§ 900.153
Does an Indian tribe or tribal organization have any options besides an appeal?
Yes. The Indian tribe or tribal organization may request an informal conference. An informal conference is a way to resolve issues as quickly as possible, without the need for a formal hearing. The Indian tribe or tribal organization may also choose to sue in U.S. District Court under section 102(b)(3) and section 110(a) of the Act.
§ 900.154
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization request an informal conference?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall file its request for an informal conference with the office of the person whose decision it is appealing, within 30 days of the day it receives the decision. The Indian tribe or tribal organization may either hand-deliver the request for an informal conference to that person's office, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization mails the request, it will be considered filed on the date the Indian tribe or tribal organization mailed it by certified mail.
§ 900.155
How is an informal conference held?
(a) The informal conference shall be held within 30 days of the date the request was received, unless the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the authorized representative of the Secretary agree on another date.
(b) If possible, the informal conference will be held at the Indian tribe or tribal organization's office. If the meeting cannot be held at the Indian tribe or tribal organization's office and is held more than fifty miles from its office, the Secretary shall arrange to pay transportation costs and per diem for incidental expenses to allow for adequate representation of the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(c) The informal conference shall be conducted by a designated representative of the Secretary.
(d) Only people who are the designated representatives of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, or authorized by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or by the appropriate agency of the Department of the Interior, are allowed to make presentations at the informal conference.
§ 900.156
What happens after the informal conference?
(a) Within 10 days of the informal conference, the person who conducted the informal conference shall prepare and mail to the Indian tribe or tribal organization a written report which summarizes what happened at the informal conference and a recommended decision.
(b) Every report of an informal conference shall contain the following language:
Within 30 days of the receipt of this recommended decision, you may file an appeal of the initial decision of the DOI or DHHS agency with the Interior Board of Indian Appeals (IBIA) under 25 CFR 900.158. You may request a hearing on the record. An appeal to
the IBIA under 25 CFR 900.158 shall be filed with the IBIA by certified mail or hand delivery at the following address: Board of Indian Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203. You shall serve copies of your Notice of Appeal on the Secretary and on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the IBIA that you have served these copies.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]
§ 900.157
Is the recommended decision always final?
No. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization is dissatisfied with the recommended decision, it may still appeal the initial decision within 30 days of receiving the recommended decision and the report of the informal conference. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization does not file a notice of appeal within 30 days, or before the expiration of the extension it has received under § 900.159, the recommended decision becomes final.
§ 900.158
How does an Indian tribe or tribal organization appeal the initial decision, if it does not request an informal conference or if it does not agree with the recommended decision resulting from the informal conference?
(a) If the Indian tribe or tribal organization decides to appeal, it shall file a notice of appeal with the IBIA within 30 days of receiving either the initial decision or the recommended decision.
(b) The Indian tribe or tribal organization may either hand-deliver the notice of appeal to the IBIA, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization mails the Notice of Appeal, it will be considered filed on the date the Indian tribe or tribal organization mailed it by certified mail. The Indian tribe or tribal organization should mail the notice of appeal to: Board of Indian Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203.
(c) The Notice of Appeal shall:
(1) Briefly state why the Indian tribe or tribal organization thinks the initial decision is wrong;
(2) Briefly identify the issues involved in the appeal; and
(3) State whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization wants a hearing on the record, or whether the Indian tribe or tribal organization wants to waive its right to a hearing.
(d) The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall serve a copy of the notice of appeal upon the official whose decision it is appealing. The Indian tribe or tribal organization shall certify to the IBIA that it has done so.
(e) The authorized representative of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the authorized representative of the Secretary of the Interior will be considered a party to all appeals filed with the IBIA under the Act.
§ 900.159
May an Indian tribe or tribal organization get an extension of time to file a notice of appeal?
Yes. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization needs more time, it can request an extension of time to file its Notice of Appeal within 60 days of receiving either the initial decision or the recommended decision resulting from the informal conference. The request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall be in writing, and shall give a reason for not filing its notice of appeal within the 30-day time period. If the Indian tribe or tribal organization has a valid reason for not filing its notice of appeal on time, it may receive an extension from the IBIA.
§ 900.160
What happens after an Indian tribe or tribal organization files an appeal?
(a) Within 5 days of receiving the Indian tribe or tribal organization's notice of appeal, the IBIA will decide whether the appeal falls under § 900.150(a) through § 900.150(g). If so, the Indian tribe or tribal organization is entitled to a hearing.
(1) If the IBIA determines that the appeal of the Indian tribe or tribal organization falls under § 900.150(h), § 900.150(i), or § 900.150(j), and the Indian tribe or tribal organization has requested a hearing, the IBIA will grant the request for a hearing unless the IBIA determines that there are no genuine issues of material fact to be resolved.
(2) If the IBIA cannot make that decision based on the information included in the notice of appeal, the IBIA may ask for additional statements from the Indian tribe or tribal organization, or from the appropriate Federal agency. If the IBIA asks for more statements, it will make its decision within 5 days of receiving those statements.
(b) If the IBIA decides that the Indian tribe or tribal organization is not entitled to a hearing or if the Indian tribe or tribal organization has waived its right to a hearing on the record, the IBIA will ask for the administrative record under 43 CFR 4.335. The IBIA shall tell the parties that the appeal will be considered under the regulations at 43 CFR 4, subpart D, except the case shall be docketed immediately, without waiting for the 20-day period described in 43 CFR 4.336.
§ 900.161
How is a hearing arranged?
(a) If a hearing is to be held, the IBIA will refer the Indian tribe or tribal organization's case to the Hearings Division of the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the U.S. Department of the Interior. The case will then be assigned to an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
(b) Within 15 days of the date of the referral, the ALJ will hold a pre-hearing conference, by telephone or in person, to decide whether an evidentiary hearing is necessary, or whether it is possible to decide the appeal based on the written record. At the pre-hearing conference the ALJ will provide for:
(1) A briefing and discovery schedule;
(2) A schedule for the exchange of information, including, but not limited to witness and exhibit lists, if an evidentiary hearing is to be held;
(3) The simplification or clarification of issues;
(4) The limitation of the number of expert witnesses, or avoidance of similar cumulative evidence, if an evidentiary hearing is to be held;
(5) The possibility of agreement disposing of all or any of the issues in dispute; and
(6) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the appeal.
(c) The ALJ shall order a written record to be made of any conference results that are not reflected in a transcript.
§ 900.162
What happens when a hearing is necessary?
(a) The ALJ shall hold a hearing within 60 days of the date of the order referring the appeal to the ALJ, unless the parties agree to have the hearing on a later date.
(b) At least 30 days before the hearing, the government agency shall file and serve the Indian tribe or tribal organization with a response to the notice of appeal.
(c) If the hearing is held more than 50 miles from the Indian tribe or tribal organization's office, the Secretary shall arrange to pay transportation costs and per diem for incidental expenses to allow for adequate representation of the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
(d) The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556.
§ 900.163
What is the Secretary's burden of proof for appeals from decisions under § 900.150(a) through § 900.150(g)?
For those appeals, the Secretary has the burden of proof (as required by section 102(e)(1) of the Act) to establish by clearly demonstrating the validity of the grounds for declining the contract proposal.
§ 900.164
What rights do Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and the government have during the appeal process?
Both the Indian tribe or tribal organization and the government agency have the same rights during the appeal process. These rights include the right to:
(a) Be represented by legal counsel;
(b) Have the parties provide witnesses who have knowledge of the relevant issues, including specific witnesses with that knowledge, who are requested by either party;
(c) Cross-examine witnesses;
(d) Introduce oral or documentary evidence, or both;
(e) Require that oral testimony be under oath;
(f) Receive a copy of the transcript of the hearing, and copies of all documentary evidence which is introduced at the hearing;
(g) Compel the presence of witnesses, or the production of documents, or both, by subpoena at hearings or at depositions;
(h) Take depositions, to request the production of documents, to serve interrogatories on other parties, and to request admissions; and
(i) Any other procedural rights under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556.
§ 900.165
What happens after the hearing?
(a) Within 30 days of the end of the formal hearing or any post-hearing briefing schedule established by the ALJ, the ALJ shall send all the parties a recommended decision, by certified mail, return receipt requested. The recommended decision shall contain the ALJ's findings of fact and conclusions of law on all the issues. The recommended decision shall also state that the Indian tribe or tribal organization has the right to object to the recommended decision.
(b) If the appeal involves the Department of Health and Human Services, the recommended decision shall contain the following statement:
Within 30 days of the receipt of this recommended decision, you may file an objection to the recommended decision with the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 25 CFR 900.166. An appeal to the Secretary under 25 CFR 900.166 shall be filed at the following address: Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Ave. S.W., Washington, DC, 20201. You shall serve copies of your notice of appeal on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the Secretary that you have served this copy. If neither party files an objection to the recommended decision within 30 days, the recommended decision will become final.
(c) If the appeal involves the Department of the Interior, the recommended decision shall contain the following statement:
Within 30 days of the receipt of this recommended decision, you may file an objection to the recommended decision with the Interior Board of Indian Appeals (IBIA) under 25 CFR 900.166. An appeal to the IBIA under 25 CFR 900.166 shall be filed at the following address: Board of Indian Appeals, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203. You shall serve copies of your notice of appeal on the Secretary of the Interior, and on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the IBIA that you have served these copies. If neither party files an objection to the recommended decision within 30 days, the recommended decision will become final.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]
§ 900.166
Is the recommended decision always final?
No. Any party to the appeal may file precise and specific written objections to the recommended decision, or any other comments, within 30 days of receiving the recommended decision. Objections shall be served on all other parties. The recommended decision shall become final 30 days after the Indian tribe or tribal organization receives the ALJ's recommended decision, unless a written statement of objections is filed with the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA during the 30-day period. If no party files a written statement of objections within 30 days, the recommended decision shall become final.
§ 900.167
If an Indian tribe or tribal organization objects to the recommended decision, what will the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA do?
(a) The Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA has 20 days from the date it receives any timely written objections to modify, adopt, or reverse the recommended decision. If the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA does not modify or reverse the recommended decision during that time, the recommended decision automatically becomes final.
(b) When reviewing the recommended decision, the IBIA or the Secretary may consider and decide all issues properly raised by any party to the appeal, based on the record.
(c) The decision of the Secretary or the IBIA shall:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Specify the findings of fact or conclusions of law which are modified or reversed;
(3) Give reasons for the decision, based on the record; and
(4) State that the decision is final for the Department.
§ 900.168
Will an appeal hurt the Indian tribe or tribal organization's position in other contract negotiations?
No. A pending appeal will not affect or prevent the negotiation or award of another contract.
§ 900.169
Will the decisions on appeals be available for the public to review?
Yes. The Secretary shall publish all final decisions from the ALJs, the IBIA, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

# Appeals of Emergency Reassumption of Self-Determination Contracts or Suspensions, Withholding or Delay of Payments Under a Self-Determination Contract
§ 900.170
What happens in the case of emergency reassumption or suspension or withholding or delay of payments?
(a) This subpart applies when the Secretary gives notice to an Indian tribe or tribal organization that the Secretary intends to:
(1) Immediately rescind a contract or grant and reassume a program; or
(2) Suspend, withhold, or delay payment under a contract.
(b) When the Secretary advises an Indian tribe or tribal organization that the Secretary intends to take an action referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall also notify the Deputy Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, Department of the Interior, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203.
§ 900.171
Will there be a hearing?
Yes. The Deputy Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) to hold a hearing.
(a) The hearing shall be held within 10 days of the date of the notice referred to in § 900.170 unless the Indian tribe or tribal organization agrees to a later date.
(b) If possible, the hearing will be held at the office of the Indian tribe or tribal organization. If the hearing is held more than 50 miles from the office of the Indian tribe or tribal organization, the Secretary shall arrange to pay transportation costs and per diem for incidental expenses. This will allow for adequate representation of the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
§ 900.172
What happens after the hearing?
(a) Within 30 days after the end of the hearing or any post-hearing briefing schedule established by the ALJ, the ALJ shall send all parties a recommended decision by certified mail, return receipt requested. The recommended decision shall contain the ALJ's findings of fact and conclusions of law on all the issues. The recommended decision shall also state that the Indian tribe or tribal organization has the right to object to the recommended decision.
(b) If the appeal involves the Department of Health and Human Services, the recommended decision shall contain the following statement:
Within 15 days of the receipt of this recommended decision, you may file an objection to the recommended decision with the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 25 CFR 900.173. An appeal to the Secretary under 25 CFR 900.173 shall be filed at the following address: Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Ave. S.W., Washington, DC 20201. You shall serve copies of your notice of appeal on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the Secretary that you have served this copy. If neither party files an objection to the recommended decision within 15 days, the recommended decision will become final.
(c) If the appeal involves the Department of the Interior, the recommended decision shall contain the following statement:
Within 15 days of the receipt of this recommended decision, you may file an objection to the recommended decision with the Interior Board of Indian Appeals (IBIA) under 25 CFR 900.173. An appeal to the IBIA under 25 CFR 900.173 shall be filed at the following address: Board of Indian Appeals, 801 North Quincy Street, Arlington, VA 22203.
You shall serve copies of your notice of appeal on the Secretary of the Interior, and on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the IBIA that you have
served these copies. If neither party files an objection to the recommended decision within 15 days, the recommended decision will become final.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]
§ 900.173
Is the recommended decision always final?
No. Any party to the appeal may file precise and specific written objections to the recommended decision, or any other comments, within 15 days of receiving the recommended decision. You shall serve a copy of your objections on the other party. The recommended decision will become final 15 days after the Indian tribe or tribal organization receives the ALJ's recommended decision, unless a written statement of objections is filed with the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA during the 15-day period. If no party files a written statement of objections within 15 days, the recommended decision will become final.
§ 900.174
If an Indian tribe or tribal organization objects to the recommended decision, what will the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the IBIA do?
(a) The Secretary or the IBIA has 15 days from the date he/she receives timely written objections to modify, adopt, or reverse the recommended decision. If the Secretary or the IBIA does not modify or reverse the recommended decision during that time, the recommended decision automatically becomes final.
(b) When reviewing the recommended decision, the IBIA or the Secretary may consider and decide all issues properly raised by any party to the appeal, based on the record.
(c) The decision of the Secretary or of the IBIA shall:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Specify the findings of fact or conclusions of law which are modified or reversed;
(3) Give reasons for the decision, based on the record; and
(4) State that the decision is final for the Department.
§ 900.175
Will an appeal hurt an Indian tribe or tribal organization's position in other contract negotiations?
No. A pending appeal will not affect or prevent the negotiation or award of another contract.
§ 900.176
Will the decisions on appeals be available for the public to review?
Yes. The Secretary shall publish all final decisions from the ALJs, the IBIA, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

# Applicability of the Equal Access to Justice Act
§ 900.177
Does the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) apply to appeals under this subpart?
Yes. EAJA claims against DOI or HHS will be heard under 43 CFR 4.601 through 4.628. For HHS, appeals from an EAJA award will be according to 25 CFR 900.165(b).
[75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]

# Subpart M—Federal Tort Claims Act Coverage General Provisions
§ 900.180
What does this subpart cover?
This subpart explains the applicability of the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). This section covers:
(a) Coverage of claims arising out of the performance of medical-related functions under self-determination contracts;
(b) Coverage of claims arising out of the performance of non-medical-related functions under self-determination contracts; and
(c) Procedures for filing claims under FTCA.
§ 900.181
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Indian contractor
means:
(1) In California, subcontractors of the California Rural Indian Health Board, Inc. or, subject to approval of the IHS Director after consultation with the DHHS Office of General Counsel, subcontractors of an Indian tribe or tribal organization which are:
(i) Governed by Indians eligible to receive services from the Indian Health Service;
(ii) Which carry out comprehensive IHS service programs within geographically defined service areas; and
(iii) Which are selected and identified through tribal resolution as the local provider of Indian health care services.
(2) Subject to the approval of the IHS Director after consultation with the DHHS Office of General Counsel, Indian tribes and tribal organizations which meet in all respects the requirements of the Indian Self-Determination Act to contract directly with the Federal Government but which choose through tribal resolution to subcontract to carry out IHS service programs within geographically defined service areas with another Indian tribe or tribal organization which contracts directly with IHS.
(3) Any other contractor that qualifies as an “Indian contractor” under the Indian Self-Determination Act.
§ 900.182
What other statutes and regulations apply to FTCA coverage?
A number of other statutes and regulations apply to FTCA coverage, including the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 1346(b), 2401, 2671-2680) and related Department of Justice regulations in 28 CFR part 14.
§ 900.183
Do Indian tribes and tribal organizations need to be aware of areas which FTCA does not cover?
Yes. There are claims against self-determination contractors which are not covered by FTCA, claims which may not be pursued under FTCA, and remedies that are excluded by FTCA. General guidance is provided below as to these matters but is not intended as a definitive description of coverage, which is subject to review by the Department of Justice and the courts on a case-by-case basis.
(a)
What claims are expressly barred by FTCA and therefore may not be made against the United States, an Indian tribe or tribal organization?
Any claim under 28 U.S.C. 2680, including claims arising out of assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, abuse of process, libel, slander, misrepresentation, deceit, or interference with contract rights, unless otherwise authorized by 28 U.S.C. 2680(h).
(b)
What claims may not be pursued under FTCA?
(1) Except as provided in §§ 900.181(a)(1) and 900.189, claims against subcontractors arising out of the performance of subcontracts with a self-determination contractor;
(2) Claims for on-the-job injuries which are covered by workmen's compensation;
(3) Claims for breach of contract rather than tort claims; or
(4) Claims resulting from activities performed by an employee which are outside the scope of employment.
(c)
What remedies are expressly excluded by FTCA and therefore are barred?
(1) Punitive damages, unless otherwise authorized by 28 U.S.C. 2674; and
(2) Other remedies not permitted under applicable state law.
§ 900.184
Is there a deadline for filing FTCA claims?
Yes. Claims shall be filed within 2 years of the date of accrual. (28 U.S.C. 2401).
§ 900.185
How long does the Federal government have to process an FTCA claim after the claim is received by the Federal agency, before a lawsuit may be filed?
Six months.
§ 900.186
Is it necessary for a self-determination contract to include any clauses about Federal Tort Claims Act coverage?
No, it is optional. At the request of Indian tribes and tribal organizations, self-determination contracts shall include the following clauses to clarify the scope of FTCA coverage:
(a) The following clause may be used for all contracts:
For purposes of Federal Tort Claims Act coverage, the contractor and its employees (including individuals performing personal services contracts with the contractor to provide health care services) are deemed to be employees of the Federal government while performing work under this contract. This status is not changed by the source of the funds used by the contractor to pay the employee's salary and benefits unless the employee receives additional compensation for performing covered services from anyone other than the contractor.
(b) The following clause is for IHS contracts only:
Under this contract, the contractor's employee may be required as a condition of employment to provide health services to non-IHS beneficiaries in order to meet contractual obligations. These services may be provided in either contractor or non-contractor facilities. The employee's status for Federal Tort Claims Act purposes is not affected.
§ 900.187
Does FTCA apply to a self-determination contract if FTCA is not referenced in the contract?
Yes.
§ 900.188
To what extent shall the contractor cooperate with the Federal government in connection with tort claims arising out of the contractor's performance?
(a) The contractor shall designate an individual to serve as tort claims liaison with the Federal government.
(b) As part of the notification required by 28 U.S.C. 2679(c), the contractor shall notify the Secretary immediately in writing of any tort claim (including any proceeding before an administrative agency or court) filed against the contractor or any of its employees that relates to performance of a self-determination contract or subcontract.
(c) The contractor, through its designated tort claims liaison, shall assist the appropriate Federal agency in preparing a comprehensive, accurate, and unbiased report of the incident so that the claim may be properly evaluated. This report should be completed within 60 days of notification of the filing of the tort claim. The report should be complete in every significant detail and include as appropriate:
(1) The date, time and exact place of the accident or incident;
(2) A concise and complete statement of the circumstances of the accident or incident;
(3) The names and addresses of tribal and/or Federal employees involved as participants or witnesses;
(4) The names and addresses of all other eyewitnesses;
(5) An accurate description of all government and other privately-owned property involved and the nature and amount of damage, if any;
(6) A statement as to whether any person involved was cited for violating a Federal, State or tribal law, ordinance, or regulation;
(7) The contractor's determination as to whether any of its employees (including Federal employees assigned to the contractor) involved in the incident giving rise to the tort claim were acting within the scope of their employment in carrying out the contract at the time the incident occurred;
(8) Copies of all relevant documentation, including available police reports, statements of witnesses, newspaper accounts, weather reports, plats and photographs of the site or damaged property, such as may be necessary or useful for purposes of claim determination by the Federal agency; and
(9) Insurance coverage information, copies of medical bills, and relevant employment records.
(d) The contractor shall cooperate with and provide assistance to the U.S. Department of Justice attorneys assigned to defend the tort claim, including, but not limited to, case preparation, discovery, and trial.
(e) If requested by the Secretary, the contractor shall make an assignment and subrogation of all the contractor's rights and claims (except those against the Federal government) arising out of a tort claim against the contractor.
(f) If requested by the Secretary, the contractor shall authorize representatives of the Secretary to settle or defend any claim and to represent the contractor in or take charge of any action. If the Federal government undertakes the settlement or defense of any claim or action the contractor shall provide all reasonable additional assistance in reaching a settlement or asserting a defense.
§ 900.189
Does this coverage extend to subcontractors of self-determination contracts?
No. Subcontractors or subgrantees providing services to a Public Law 93-638 contractor or grantee are generally not covered. The only exceptions are Indian contractors such as those under subcontract with the California Rural Indian Health Board to carry out IHS programs in geographically defined service areas in California and personal
services contracts under § 900.193 (for § 900.183(b)(1)) or § 900.183(b) (for § 900.190).

# Medical-Related Claims
§ 900.190
Is FTCA the exclusive remedy for a tort claim for personal injury or death resulting from the performance of a self-determination contract?
Yes, except as explained in § 900.183(b). No claim may be filed against a self-determination contractor or employee for personal injury or death arising from the performance of medical, surgical, dental, or related functions by the contractor in carrying out self-determination contracts under the Act. Related functions include services such as those provided by nurses, laboratory and x-ray technicians, emergency medical technicians and other health care providers including psychologists and social workers. All such claims shall be filed against the United States and are subject to the limitations and restrictions of the FTCA.
§ 900.191
Are employees of self-determination contractors providing health services under the self-determination contract protected by FTCA?
Yes. For the purpose of Federal Tort Claims Act coverage, an Indian tribe or tribal organization and its employees performing medical-related functions under a self-determination contract are deemed a part of the Public Health Service if the employees are acting within the scope of their employment in carrying out the contract.
§ 900.192
What employees are covered by FTCA for medical-related claims?
(a) Permanent employees;
(b) Temporary employees;
(c) Persons providing services without compensation in carrying out a contract;
(d) Persons required because of their employment by a self-determination contractor to serve non-IHS beneficiaries (even if the services are provided in facilities not owned by the contractor); and
(e) Federal employees assigned to the contract.
§ 900.193
Does FTCA coverage extend to individuals who provide health care services under a personal services contract providing services in a facility that is owned, operated, or constructed under the jurisdiction of the IHS?
Yes. The coverage extends to individual personal services contractors providing health services in such a facility, including a facility owned by an Indian tribe or tribal organization but operated under a self-determination contract with IHS.
§ 900.194
Does FTCA coverage extend to services provided under a staff privileges agreement with a non-IHS facility where the agreement requires a health care practitioner to provide reciprocal services to the general population?
Yes. Those services are covered, as long as the contractor's health care practitioners do not receive additional compensation from a third party for the performance of these services and they are acting within the scope of their employment under a self-determination contract. Reciprocal services include:
(a) Cross-covering other medical personnel who temporarily cannot attend their patients;
(b) Assisting other personnel with surgeries or other medical procedures;
(c) Assisting with unstable patients or at deliveries; or
(d) Assisting in any patient care situation where additional assistance by health care personnel is needed.
§ 900.195
Does FTCA coverage extend to the contractor's health care practitioners providing services to private patients on a fee-for-services basis when such personnel (not the self-determination contractor) receive the fee?
No.
§ 900.196
Do covered services include the conduct of clinical studies and investigations and the provision of emergency services, including the operation of emergency motor vehicles?
Yes, if the services are provided in carrying out a self-determination contract. (An emergency motor vehicle is a vehicle, whether government, contractor, or employee-owned, used to transport passengers for medical services.)
§ 900.197
Does FTCA cover employees of the contractor who are paid by the contractor from funds other than those provided through the self-determination contract?
Yes, as long as the services out of which the claim arose were performed in carrying out the self-determination contract.
§ 900.198
Are Federal employees assigned to a self-determination contractor under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act or detailed under section 214 of the Public Health Service Act covered to the same extent that they would be if working directly for a Federal agency?
Yes.
§ 900.199
Does FTCA coverage extend to health care practitioners to whom staff privileges have been extended in contractor health care facilities operated under a self-determination contract on the condition that such practitioner provide health services to IHS beneficiaries covered by FTCA?
Yes, health care practitioners with staff privileges in a facility operated by a contractor are covered when they perform services to IHS beneficiaries. Such personnel are not covered when providing services to non-IHS beneficiaries.
§ 900.200
May persons who are not Indians or Alaska Natives assert claims under FTCA?
Yes. Non-Indian individuals served under the contract whether or not on a fee-for-service basis, may assert claims under this subpart.

# Procedure for Filing Medical-Related Claims
§ 900.201
How should claims arising out of the performance of medical-related functions be filed?
Claims should be filed on Standard Form 95 (Claim for Damage, Injury or Death) or by submitting comparable written information (including a definite amount of monetary damage claimed) with the Office of the General Counsel, General Law Division, Claims Office, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Room 4256, Wilbur J. Cohen Federal Building, Washington, DC 20201, or at such other address as shall have been provided to the contractor in writing.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 52791, Sept. 17, 2007]
§ 900.202
What should a self-determination contractor or a contractor's employee do on receiving such a claim?
They should immediately forward the claim to the PHS Claims Branch at the address indicated in § 900.201 and notify the contractor's tort claims liaison.
§ 900.203
If the contractor or contractor's employee receives a summons and/or a complaint alleging a tort covered by FTCA, what should the contractor do?
As part of the notification required by 28 U.S.C. 2679(c), the contractor should immediately inform the Chief, Litigation Branch, Business and Administrative Law Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services, 330 Independence Avenue SW., Room 5362, Washington, DC 20201, and the contractor's tort claims liaison, and forward the following materials:
(a) Four copies of the claimant's medical records of treatment, inpatient and outpatient, and any related correspondence, as well as reports of consultants;
(b) A narrative summary of the care and treatment involved;
(c) The names and addresses of all personnel who were involved in the care and treatment of the claimant;
(d) Any comments or opinions that the employees who treated the claimant believe to be pertinent to the allegations contained in the claim; and
(e) Other materials identified in § 900.188(c).

# Non-Medical Related Claims
§ 900.204
Is FTCA the exclusive remedy for a non-medical related tort claim arising out of the performance of a self-determination contract?
Yes. Except as explained in § 900.183(b), no claim may be filed against a self-determination contractor or employee based upon performance of non-medical-related functions under a self-determination contract. Claims of this type must be filed against the United States under FTCA.
§ 900.205
To what non-medical-related claims against self-determination contractors does FTCA apply?
It applies to:
(a) All tort claims arising from the performance of self-determination contracts under the authority of the Act on or after October 1, 1989; and
(b) Any tort claims first filed on or after October 24, 1989, regardless of when the incident which is the basis of the claim occurred.
§ 900.206
What employees are covered by FTCA for non-medical-related claims?
(a) Permanent employees;
(b) Temporary employees;
(c) Persons providing services without compensation in carrying out a contract;
(d) Persons required because of their employment by a self-determination contractor to serve non-IHS beneficiaries (even if the services are provided in facilities not owned by the contractor); and
(e) Federal employees assigned to the contract.
§ 900.207
How are non-medical related tort claims and lawsuits filed for IHS?
Non-medical-related tort claims and lawsuits arising out of the performance of self-determination contracts with the Indian Health Service should be filed in the manner described in § 900.201 (for both §§ 900.207 and 900.208).
§ 900.208
How are non-medical related tort claims and lawsuits filed for DOI?
Non-medical-related claims arising out of the performance of self-determination contracts with the Secretary of the Interior should be filed in the manner described in § 900.201 with the Assistant Solicitor, Procurement and Patents, Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, Room 6511, 1849 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20240.
§ 900.209
What should a self-determination contractor or contractor's employee do on receiving a non-medical related tort claim?
(a) If the contract is with DHHS, they should immediately forward the claim to the PHS Claims Branch at the address indicated in § 900.201 and notify the contractor's tort claims liaison.
(b) If the contract is with DOI, they should immediately notify the Assistant Solicitor, Procurement and Patents, Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, Room 6511, 1849 C Street N.W., Washington, DC 20240.
§ 900.210
If the contractor or contractor's employee receives a summons and/or complaint alleging a non-medical related tort covered by FTCA, what should an Indian tribe or tribal organization do?
(a) If the contract is with the DHHS, they should immediately inform the Chief, Litigation Branch, Business and Administrative Law Division, Office of General Counsel, Department of Health and Human Services, 330 Independence Avenue S.W., Room 5362, Washington, DC 20201 and the contractor's tort claims liaison.
(b) If the contract is with the Department of the Interior, they should immediately notify the Assistant Solicitor, Procurement and Patents, Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, Room 6511, 1849 C Street N.W., Washington, DC 20240, and the contractor's tort claims liaison.

# Subpart N—Post-Award Contract Disputes
§ 900.215
What does this subpart cover?
(a) This subpart covers:
(1) All HHS and DOI self-determination contracts, including construction contracts; and
(2) All disputes regarding an awarding official's decision relating to a self-determination contract.
(b) This subpart does not cover the decisions of an awarding official that are covered under subpart L.
§ 900.216
What other statutes and regulations apply to contract disputes?
(a) The Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (CDA), Public Law 95-563 (41 U.S.C. 601 as amended);
(b) If the matter is submitted to the CBCA, 48 CFR part 6101; and
(c) The Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA), 5 U.S.C. 504 and 28 U.S.C. 2412, and regulations at 48 CFR 6101.30, 6101.31 (CBCA), 43 CFR 4.602, 4.604 through 4.628 (DOI), and 45 CFR 13.4 through 13.7 (HHS).
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]
§ 900.217
Is filing a claim under the CDA our only option for resolving post-award contract disputes?
No. The Federal government attempts to resolve all contract disputes by agreement at the awarding official's level. These are alternatives to filing a claim under the CDA:
(a) Before issuing a decision on a claim, the awarding official should consider using informal discussions between the parties, assisted by individuals who have not substantially participated in the matter, to aid in resolving differences.
(b) In addition to filing a CDA claim, or instead of filing a CDA claim, the parties may choose to use an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act, Public Law 101-552, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 581
et seq.,
or the options listed in section 108(1)(b)(12) of the Indian Self-Determination Act, as applicable.
§ 900.218
What is a claim under the CDA?
(a) A claim is a written demand by one of the contracting parties, asking for one or more of the following:
(1) Payment of a specific sum of money under the contract;
(2) Adjustment or interpretation of contract terms; or
(3) Any other claim relating to the contract.
(b) However, an undisputed voucher, invoice, or other routing request for payment is not a claim under the CDA. A voucher, invoice, or routing request for payment may be converted into a CDA claim if:
(1) It is disputed as to liability or amount; or
(2) It is not acted upon in a reasonable time and written notice of the claim is given to the awarding official by the senior official designated in the contract.
§ 900.219
How does an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or Federal agency submit a claim?
(a) An Indian tribe or tribal organization shall submit its claim in writing to the awarding official. The awarding official shall document the contract file with evidence of the date the claim was received.
(b) A Federal agency shall submit its claim in writing to the contractor's senior official, as designated in the contract.
§ 900.220
Does it make a difference whether the claim is large or small?
Yes. The Contract Disputes Act requires that an Indian tribe or tribal organization making a claim for more than $100,000 shall certify that:
(a) The claim is made in good faith,
(b) Supporting documents or data are accurate and complete to the best of the Indian tribe or tribal organization's knowledge and belief;
(c) The amount claimed accurately reflects the amount believed to be owed by the Federal government; and
(d) The person making the certification is authorized to do so on behalf of the Indian tribe or tribal organization.
§ 900.221
What happens next?
(a) If the parties do not agree on a settlement, the awarding official will issue a written decision on the claim.
(b) The awarding official shall always give a copy of the decision to the Indian tribe or tribal organization by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any other method which provides a receipt.
§ 900.222
What goes into a decision?
A decision shall:
(a) Describe the claim or dispute;
(b) Refer to the relevant terms of the contract;
(c) Set out the factual areas of agreement and disagreement;
(d) Set out the actual decision, based on the facts, and outline the reasoning which supports the decision; and
(e) Contain the following language:
This is a final decision. You may appeal this decision to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20245. If you decide to appeal, you must, within 90 days from the date you receive this decision, mail or otherwise furnish written notice to the CBCA and provide a copy to the individual from whose decision the appeal is taken. The notice must indicate that an appeal is intended, and refer to the decision and contract number. Instead of appealing to the CBCA, you may bring an action in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims or in the United States District Court within 12 months of the date you receive this notice.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 76601, Dec. 21, 2006; 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]
§ 900.223
When does an Indian tribe or tribal organization get the decision?
(a) If the claim is for more than $100,000, the awarding official shall issue the decision within 60 days of the day he or she receives the claim. If the awarding official cannot issue a decision that quickly, he or she shall tell you when the decision will be issued.
(b) If the claim is for $100,000 or less, and you want a decision within 60 days, you shall advise the awarding official in writing that you want a decision within that period. If you advise the awarding official in writing that you do want a decision within 60 days, the awarding official shall issue the decision within 60 days of the day he or she receives your written notice.
(c) If your claim is for $100,000 or less and you do not advise the awarding official that you want a decision within 60 days, or if your claim exceeds $100,000 and the awarding official has notified you of the time within which a decision will be issued, the awarding official shall issue a decision within a reasonable time. What is “reasonable” depends upon the size and complexity of your claim, and upon the adequacy of the information you have given to the awarding official in support of your claim.
§ 900.224
What happens if the decision does not come within that time?
If the awarding official does not issue a decision within the time required under § 900.223, the Indian tribe or tribal organization may treat the delay as though the awarding official has denied the claim, and proceed according to § 900.222(e),
§ 900.225
Does an Indian tribe or tribal organization get paid immediately if the awarding official decides in its favor?
Yes. Once the awarding official decides that money should be paid under the contract, the amount due, minus any portion already paid, should be paid as promptly as possible, without waiting for either party to file an appeal. Any payment which is made under this subsection will not affect any other rights either party might have. In addition, it will not create a binding legal precedent as to any future payments.
§ 900.226
What rules govern appeals of cost disallowances?
In any appeal involving a disallowance of costs, the Board of Contract Appeals will give due consideration to the factual circumstances giving rise to the disallowed costs, and shall seek to determine a fair result without rigid adherence to strict accounting principles. The determination of allowability shall assure fair compensation for the work or service performed, using cost and accounting data as guides, but not rigid measures, for ascertaining fair compensation.
§ 900.227
Can the awarding official change the decision after it has been made?
(a) The decision of the awarding official is final and conclusive, and not subject to review by any forum, tribunal or government agency, unless an appeal or suit is timely commenced as authorized by the Contract Disputes Act. Once the decision has been made, the awarding official may not change it, except by agreement of the parties, or under the following limited circumstances:
(1) If evidence is discovered which could not have been discovered through due diligence before the awarding official issued the decision;
(2) If the awarding official learns that there has been fraud, misrepresentation, or other misconduct by a party;
(3) If the decision is beyond the scope of the awarding official's authority;
(4) If the claim has been satisfied, released or discharged; or
(5) For any other reason justifying relief from the decision.
(b) Nothing in this subpart shall be interpreted to discourage settlement discussions or prevent settlement of the dispute at any time.
(c) If a decision is withdrawn and a new decision is issued that is not acceptable to the contractor, the contractor may proceed with the appeal based on the new decision. If no new decision is issued, the contractor may proceed under § 900.224.
(d) If an appeal or suit is filed, the awarding official may modify or withdraw his or her final decision.
§ 900.228
Is an Indian tribe or tribal organization entitled to interest if it wins its claim?
Yes. If an Indian tribe or tribal organization wins the claim, it will be entitled to interest on the amount of the award. The interest will be calculated from the date the awarding official receives the claim until the day it is paid. The interest rate will be the rate which the Secretary of the Treasury sets for the Renegotiation Board under the Renegotiation Act of 1951, Public Law 92-41, 26 U.S.C. 1212 and 26 U.S.C. 7447.
§ 900.229
What role will the awarding official play during an appeal?
(a) The awarding official shall provide any data, documentation, information or support required by the CBCA for use in deciding a pending appeal.
(b) Within 30 days of receiving an appeal or learning that an appeal has been filed, the awarding official shall assemble a file which contains all the documents which are pertinent to the appeal, including:
(1) The decision and findings of fact from which the appeal is taken;
(2) The contract, including specifications and pertinent modifications, plans and drawings;
(3) All correspondence between the parties which relates to the appeal, including the letter or letters of claims in response to which the decision was issued;
(4) Transcripts of any testimony taken during the course of the proceedings, and affidavits or statements of any witnesses on the matter in dispute, which were made before the filing of the notice of appeal with the CBCA; and
(5) Any additional information which may be relevant.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 76601, Dec. 21, 2006]
§ 900.230
What is the effect of a pending appeal?
(a) Indian tribes and tribal organizations shall continue performance of a contract during the appeal of any claims to the same extent they would had there been no dispute.
(b) A pending dispute will not affect or bar the negotiation or award of any subsequent contract or negotiation between the parties.

# Subpart O—Conflicts of Interest
§ 900.231
What is an organizational conflict of interest?
An organizational conflict of interest arises when there is a direct conflict between the financial interests of the contracting Indian tribe or tribal organization and:
(a) The financial interests of beneficial owners of Indian trust resources;
(b) The financial interests of the United States relating to trust resources, trust acquisitions, or lands conveyed or to be conveyed pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.;
or
(c) An express statutory obligation of the United States to third parties. This section only applies if the conflict was not addressed when the contract was first negotiated. This section only applies where the financial interests of the Indian tribe or tribal organization are significant enough to impair the Indian tribe or tribal organization's objectivity in carrying out the contract, or a portion of the contract.
§ 900.232
What must an Indian tribe or tribal organization do if an organizational conflict of interest arises under a contract?
This section only applies if the conflict was not addressed when the contract was first negotiated. When an Indian tribe or tribal organization becomes aware of an organizational conflict of interest, the Indian tribe or tribal organization must immediately disclose the conflict to the Secretary.
§ 900.233
When must an Indian tribe or tribal organization regulate its employees or subcontractors to avoid a personal conflict of interest?
An Indian tribe or tribal organization must maintain written standards of conduct to govern officers, employees, and agents (including subcontractors) engaged in functions related to the management of trust assets.
§ 900.234
What types of personal conflicts of interest involving tribal officers, employees or subcontractors would have to be regulated by an Indian tribe?
The Indian tribe or tribal organization would need a tribally-approved mechanism to ensure that no officer, employee, or agent (including a subcontractor) of the Indian tribe or tribal organization reviews a trust transaction in which that person has a financial or employment interest that conflicts with that of the trust beneficiary, whether the tribe or an allottee. Interests arising from membership in, or employment by, an Indian tribe or rights to share in a tribal claim need not be regulated.
§ 900.235
What personal conflicts of interest must the standards of conduct regulate?
The standards must prohibit an officer, employee, or agent (including a subcontractor) from participating in the review, analysis, or inspection of trust transactions involving an entity in which such persons have a direct financial interest or an employment relationship. It must also prohibit such officers, employees, or agents from accepting any gratuity, favor, or anything of more than nominal value, from a party (other than the Indian tribe) with an interest in the trust transactions under review. Such standards must also provide for sanctions or remedies for violation of the standards.
§ 900.236
May an Indian tribe elect to negotiate contract provisions on conflict of interest to take the place of this regulation?
Yes. An Indian tribe and the Secretary may agree to contract provisions, concerning either personal or organizational conflicts, that address the issues specific to the program and activities contracted in a manner that provides equivalent protection against conflicts of interest to these regulations. Agreed-upon contract provisions shall be followed, rather than the related provisions of this regulation. For example, the Indian tribe and the Secretary may agree that using the Indian tribe's own written code of ethics satisfies the objectives of the personal conflicts provisions of this regulation, in whole or in part.

# Subpart P—Retrocession and Reassumption Procedures
§ 900.240
What does retrocession mean?
A retrocession means the return to the Secretary of a contracted program, in whole or in part, for any reason, before the expiration of the term of the contract.
§ 900.241
Who may retrocede a contract, in whole or in part?
An Indian tribe or tribal organization authorized by an Indian tribe may retrocede a contract.
§ 900.242
What is the effective date of retrocession?
The retrocession is effective on the date which is the earliest date among:
(a) One year from the date of the Indian tribe or tribal organization's request;
(b) The date the contract expires; or
(c) A mutually agreed-upon date.
§ 900.243
What effect will an Indian tribe or tribal organization's retrocession have on its rights to contract?
An Indian tribe or tribal organization's retrocession shall not negatively affect:
(a) Any other contract to which it is a party;
(b) Any other contracts it may request; and
(c) Any future request by the Indian tribe or tribal organization to contract for the same program.
§ 900.244
Will an Indian tribe or tribal organization's retrocession adversely affect funding available for the retroceded program?
No. The Secretary shall provide not less than the same level of funding that would have been available if there had been no retrocession.
§ 900.245
What obligation does the Indian tribe or tribal organization have with respect to returning property that was used in the operation of the retroceded program?
On the effective date of any retrocession, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall, at the request of the Secretary, deliver to the Secretary all requested property and equipment provided under the contract which have a per item current fair market value, less the cost of improvements borne by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, in excess of $5,000 at the time of the retrocession.
§ 900.246
What does reassumption mean?
Reassumption means rescission, in whole or in part, of a contract and assuming or resuming control or operation of the contracted program by the Secretary without consent of the Indian tribe or tribal organization. There are two types of reassumption: emergency and non-emergency.
§ 900.247
Under what circumstances is a reassumption considered an emergency instead of non-emergency reassumption?
(a) A reassumption is considered an emergency reassumption if an Indian tribe or tribal organization fails to fulfill the requirements of the contract and this failure poses:
(1) An immediate threat of imminent harm to the safety of any person; or
(2) Imminent substantial and irreparable harm to trust funds, trust lands, or interest in such lands.
(b) A reassumption is considered a non-emergency reassumption if there has been:
(1) A violation of the rights or endangerment of the health, safety, or welfare of any person; or
(2) Gross negligence or mismanagement in the handling or use of:
(i) Contract funds;
(ii) Trust funds;
(iii) Trust lands; or
(iv) Interests in trust lands under the contract.
§ 900.248
In a non-emergency reassumption, what is the Secretary required to do?
The Secretary must:
(a) Notify the Indian tribes or tribal organizations served by the contract and the contractor in writing by certified mail of the details of the deficiencies in contract performance;
(b) Request specified corrective action to be taken within a reasonable period of time, which in no case may be less than 45 days; and
(c) Offer and provide, if requested, the necessary technical assistance and advice to assist the contractor to overcome the deficiencies in contract performance. The Secretary may also
make a grant for the purpose of obtaining such technical assistance as provided in section 103 of the Act.
§ 900.249
What happens if the contractor fails to take corrective action to remedy the contract deficiencies identified in the notice?
The Secretary shall provide a second written notice by certified mail to the Indian tribes or tribal organizations served by the contract and the contractor that the contract will be rescinded, in whole or in part.
§ 900.250
What shall the second written notice include?
The second written notice shall include:
(a) The intended effective date of the reassumption;
(b) The details and facts supporting the intended reassumption; and
(c) Instructions that explain the Indian tribe or tribal organization's right to a formal hearing within 30 days of receipt of the notice.
§ 900.251
What is the earliest date on which the contract will be rescinded in a non-emergency reassumption?
The contract will not be rescinded by the Secretary before the issuance of a final decision in any administrative hearing or appeal.
§ 900.252
In an emergency reassumption, what is the Secretary required to do?
(a) Immediately rescind, in whole or in part, the contract;
(b) Assume control or operation of all or part of the program; and
(c) Give written notice to the contractor and the Indian tribes or tribal organizations served.
§ 900.253
What shall the written notice include?
The written notice shall include the following:
(a) A detailed statement of the findings which support the Secretary's determination;
(b) A statement explaining the contractor's right to a hearing on the record under § 900.171 within 10 days of the emergency reassumption or such later date as the contractor may approve;
(c) An explanation that the contractor may be reimbursed for actual and reasonable “wind up costs” incurred after the effective date of the rescission; and
(d) A request for the return of property, if any.
[61 FR 32501, June 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 31701, June 4, 2010]
§ 900.254
May the contractor be reimbursed for actual and reasonable “wind up costs” incurred after the effective date of rescission?
Yes.
§ 900.255
What obligation does the Indian tribe or tribal organization have with respect to returning property that was used in the operation of the rescinded contract?
On the effective date of any rescission, the Indian tribe or tribal organization shall, at the request of the Secretary, deliver to the Secretary all property and equipment provided under the contract which has a per item current fair market value, less the cost of improvements borne by the Indian tribe or tribal organization, in excess of $5,000 at the time of the retrocession.
§ 900.256
Will a reassumption adversely affect funding available for the reassumed program?
No. The Secretary shall provide at least the same level of funding that would have been provided if there had been no reassumption.
PARTS 901-999 [RESERVED]
25 CFR Ch. VI (4-1-25 Edition)
Off. of the Assistant Secretary, Interior

# CHAPTER VI—OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Part
Page
1000
Annual funding agreements under the Tribal Self-Government Act amendments to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act
393
1001
Self-Governance Program
469
1002-1186
[Reserved]
1187
Indian Business Incubators Program
474
1188-1199
[Reserved]
Pt. 1000

# PART 1000—ANNUAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS UNDER THE TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNMENT ACT AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1000.1
What is the authority of this part?
1000.5
What key terms do I need to know?
1000.10
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
1000.15
What is the congressional policy statement of this part?
1000.20
What is the Secretarial policy of this part?
1000.25
What is the effect on existing Tribal rights?
1000.30
What is the effect of these regulations on Federal program guidelines, manual, or policy directives?
1000.35
What happens if a court holds any provisions of these regulations in this part invalid?

# Subpart B—Selection of Additional Tribes for Participation in Tribal Self-Governance

# Purpose and Definitions
1000.101
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.105
What is a “signatory”?
1000.110
What is a “nonsignatory Tribe”?

# Eligibility
1000.115
Who may participate in Tribal self-governance?
1000.120
How many additional Tribes/Consortia may participate in self-governance per year?
1000.125
What must a Tribe/Consortium submit to be selected to participate in Self-Governance?
1000.130
What additional information may be submitted to the Secretary to facilitate negotiations?
1000.135
May a Consortium member Tribe withdraw from the Consortium and be selected to participate in Self-Governance?
1000.140
What is required during the “planning phase”?
1000.145
When does a Tribe/Consortium have an uncorrected “significant and material audit exception”?
1000.150
What are the consequences of having an uncorrected significant and material audit exception?
1000.155
Is the Secretary required to provide technical assistance to improve a Tribe's/Consortium's internal controls?

# Selection To Participate in Self-Governance
1000.160
How is a Tribe/Consortium selected to participate in Self-Governance?
1000.165
When does OSG accept requests to participate in Self-Governance?
1000.170
Are there any time frames to negotiate an initial compact or funding agreement for a Tribe not presently participating in self-governance?
1000.175
How does a Tribe/Consortium withdraw its request to participate in Self-Governance?
1000.180
What if more than 50 Tribes/Consortium apply to participate in Self-Governance?
1000.185
What happens if a request is not complete?
1000.190
What happens if a Tribe/Consortium is selected to participate but does not execute a compact and a funding agreement?
1000.195
May a Tribe/Consortium be selected to negotiate a funding agreement under section 403(b)(2) of the Act without having or negotiating a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1)?
1000.200
May a Tribe/Consortium be selected to negotiate a funding agreement under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c)) without negotiating a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1) and/or section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2))?

# Withdrawal From a Consortium Funding Agreement
1000.205
What happens when a Tribe wishes to withdraw from a Consortium funding agreement?
1000.210
How are funds redistributed when a withdrawing Tribe fully or partially withdraws from a compact and funding agreement and enters a new contract or compact?
1000.215
If the withdrawing Tribe elects to operate a program carried out under a compact and funding agreement under title IV through a contract under title I, is the resulting contract considered a mature contract under 25 U.S.C. 5304(h)?
1000.220
How are funds distributed when a withdrawing Tribe fully or partially withdraws from a Consortium's compact and funding agreement and the withdrawing Tribe does not enter a new contract or compact?
1000.225
What amount of funding is to be removed from the Consortium's funding agreement for the withdrawing Tribe?
1000.230
What happens if there is a dispute between the Consortium and the withdrawing Tribe?
1000.235
When a Tribe withdraws from a Consortium, is the Secretary required to award to the withdrawing Tribe a portion of funds associated with a construction
project if the withdrawing Tribe so requests?

# Subpart C—Planning and Negotiation Grants for BIA Programs
1000.301
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.305
Are there grants available to assist Tribes/Consortia to meet the requirements to participate in self-governance?
1000.310
What is required to request planning and negotiation grants?
1000.315
Are planning and negotiation grants available?
1000.320
Must a Tribe/Consortium receive a planning or negotiation grant to be eligible to participate in self-governance?
1000.325
What happens if there are insufficient funds to award all of the requests for planning and negotiation grants in any given year?
1000.330
May a Tribe/Consortium that has received a planning grant also receive a negotiation grant?
1000.335
What are the Secretary's responsibilities upon a decision not to award a planning or negotiation grant?
1000.340
May a Tribe/Consortium administratively appeal the Secretary's decision to not award a grant under this subpart?

# Subpart D—Financial Assistance for Planning and Negotiation Activities for Non-BIA Bureau Programs
1000.401
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.405
What funds are available to Tribes/Consortium for planning and negotiating activities with non-BIA bureaus?
1000.410
What kinds of planning and negotiation activities for non-BIA programs does financial assistance from non-BIA bureaus support?
1000.415
Who can apply to a non-BIA bureau for financial assistance to plan and negotiate non-BIA programs?
1000.420
Under what circumstances may financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities with non-BIA bureaus be awarded to Tribes/Consortia?
1000.425
How does the Tribe/Consortium know when and how to apply for financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program?
1000.430
What must be included in the application for financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program?
1000.435
How will the non-BIA bureau director/commissioner award financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program?
1000.440
May non-BIA bureaus provide technical assistance to a Tribe/Consortium in drafting its application?
1000.445
What are the non-BIA bureau director's/commissioner's responsibilities upon a decision to decline financial assistance?
1000.450
Can an applicant administratively appeal a decision not to award financial assistance?
1000.455
May a Tribe/Consortium reapply through a future planning and negotiation application if it has been previously denied?
1000.460
Will the non-BIA bureau notify Tribes/Consortium of the results of the selection process?

# Subpart E—Compacts
1000.501
What is a self-governance compact?
1000.505
Which DOI office negotiates self-governance compacts?
1000.510
What is included in a self-governance compact?
1000.515
What provisions must be included in either a compact or funding agreement?
1000.520
Is a compact required to participate in self-governance?
1000.525
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate other terms and conditions?
1000.530
What is the duration of a compact?
1000.535
May a compact be amended?
1000.540
Can a Tribe/Consortium have a funding agreement without having negotiated a compact?
1000.545
May a participating Tribe/Consortium retain its existing compact which was executed prior to the enactment of Public Law 116-180?
1000.550
What happens if the Tribe/Consortium and Secretary fail to reach an agreement on a compact?

# Subpart F—Funding Agreements for BIA Programs
1000.601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.605
What is a funding agreement?

# Contents and Scope of Funding Agreements
1000.610
What must be included in a funding agreement?
1000.615
Can additional provisions be included in a funding agreement?
1000.620
Does a Tribe/Consortium have the right to include provisions of title I of Public Law 93-638 in a funding agreement?
1000.625
What is the term of a funding agreement?
1000.630
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate a funding agreement with a term that exceeds one year?
1000.635
Does a funding agreement remain in effect after the end of its term?
1000.640
May a participating Tribe/Consortium retain its existing funding agreement which was executed prior to the enactment of Public Law 116-180?

# Determining What Programs May Be Included in a Funding Agreement
1000.645
What PSFAs may be included in a funding agreement?
1000.650
How does the funding agreement specify the services provided, functions performed, and responsibilities assumed by the Tribe/Consortium and those retained by the Secretary?
1000.655
May a Tribe/Consortium redesign or consolidate the programs that are included in a funding agreement and reallocate funds for such programs?
1000.660
Do Tribes/Consortium need Secretarial approval to redesign BIA programs that the Tribe/Consortium administers under a funding agreement?
1000.665
Can the terms and conditions in a funding agreement be amended during the year it is in effect?

# Determining Funding Agreement Amounts
1000.670
What funds must be transferred to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
1000.675
What funds may not be included in a funding agreement?
1000.680
May the Secretary place any requirements on programs and funds that are otherwise available to Tribes/Consortium or Indians for which appropriations are made to agencies other than DOI?
1000.685
What funds are used to carry out inherent Federal functions?
1000.690
How does BIA determine the funding amount to carry out inherent Federal functions?
1000.695
Is the amount of funds withheld by the Secretary to cover the cost of inherent Federal functions subject to negotiation?
1000.700
May a Tribe/Consortium continue to negotiate a funding agreement pending an appeal of funding amounts associated with inherent Federal functions?
1000.705
What is a Tribal share?
1000.710
How does BIA determine a Tribe's/Consortium's share of funds to be included in a funding agreement?
1000.715
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate a Tribal share for programs outside its region/agency?
1000.720
May a Tribe/Consortium obtain discretionary or competitive funding that is distributed on a discretionary or competitive basis?
1000.725
Are all funds identified as Tribal shares always paid to the Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
1000.730
How are savings that result from downsizing allocated?
1000.735
Do Tribes/Consortium need Secretarial approval to reallocate funds between programs that the Tribe/Consortium administers under the funding agreement?
1000.740
Can funding amounts negotiated in a funding agreement be adjusted during the year it is in effect?

# Establishing Self-Governance Stable Base Budgets
1000.745
What are self-governance stable base budgets?
1000.750
Once a Tribe/Consortium establishes a stable base budget, are funding amounts renegotiated each year?
1000.755
How are self-governance stable base budgets established?
1000.760
How are self-governance stable base budgets adjusted?

# Subpart G—Funding Agreements for Non-BIA Programs
1000.801
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.805
What is a funding agreement for a non-BIA program?
1000.810
What non-BIA programs are eligible for inclusion in a funding agreement?
1000.815
Are there non-BIA programs for which the Secretary must negotiate for inclusion in a funding agreement subject to such terms as the parties may negotiate?
1000.820
What programs are included under section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2))?
1000.825
What programs are included under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c))?
1000.830
What does “special geographic, historical or cultural” mean?
1000.835
Under section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2)), when must programs be awarded non-competitively?
1000.840
May a non-BIA bureau include in a funding agreement, on a non-competitive basis, programs of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance?
1000.845
Are there any non-BIA programs that may not be included in a funding agreement?
1000.850
Does a Tribe/Consortium need to be identified in an authorizing statute in order for a program or element of a program to be included in a non-BIA funding agreement?
1000.855
Will Tribes/Consortia participate in the Secretary's determination of what is to be included on the annual list of available programs?
1000.860
How will the Secretary consult with Tribes/Consortia in developing the list of available programs?
1000.865
What else is on the list in addition to eligible programs?
1000.870
May a bureau negotiate with a Tribe/Consortium for programs not specifically included on the annual list pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5372(c)?
1000.875
How will a bureau negotiate a funding agreement for a program of special
geographic, historical, or cultural significance to more than one Tribe/Consortium?
1000.880
When will this determination be made?
1000.885
What funds are included in a non-BIA funding agreement?
1000.890
How are indirect cost rates determined?
1000.895
How does the Secretary determine the amount of indirect costs for a non-BIA funding agreement?
1000.900
May the bureaus negotiate terms to be included in a funding agreement for non-BIA programs?
1000.905
Can a Tribe/Consortium reallocate, consolidate, and redesign funds for a non-BIA program?
1000.910
Do Tribes/Consortia need Secretarial approval to reallocate funds between title I eligible programs that the Tribe/Consortium administers under a non-BIA funding agreement?
1000.915
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate a funding agreement with a non-BIA bureau for which the performance period exceeds one year?
1000.920
Can the terms and conditions in a non-BIA funding agreement be amended during the year it is in effect?
1000.925
What happens if a funding agreement expires before the effective date of the successor Funding Agreement?

# Subpart H—Negotiation Process
1000.1001
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.1005
What are the phases of the negotiation process?
1000.1010
Who may initiate the information phase?
1000.1015
Is it mandatory to go through the information phase before initiating the negotiation phase?
1000.1020
How does a Tribe/Consortium initiate the information phase?
1000.1025
What information is a Tribe/Consortium encouraged to include in a Request to Initiate the Information Phase?
1000.1030
When should a Tribe/Consortium submit a Request to Initiate the Information Phase to the Secretary?
1000.1035
What steps does the bureau take after a Request to Initiate the Information Phase is submitted by a Tribe/Consortium?
1000.1040
How does a Tribe/Consortium initiate the negotiation phase?
1000.1045
How and when does the Secretary respond to a request to negotiate a compact or BIA funding agreement?
1000.1050
How and when does the Secretary respond to a request to negotiate a non-BIA funding agreement?
1000.1055
What is the process for conducting the negotiation phase?
1000.1060
What issues must the bureau and the Tribe/Consortium address at negotiation meetings?
1000.1065
What happens when a compact or funding agreement is signed?
1000.1070
What happens if the Tribe/Consortium and bureau negotiators fail to reach an agreement on a compact or funding agreement?
1000.1075
When does the funding agreement become effective?
1000.1080
What is a subsequent funding agreement?
1000.1085
How is the negotiation of a subsequent funding agreement initiated?
1000.1090
What is the process for negotiating a subsequent funding agreement?

# Subpart I—Final Offer
1000.1101
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.1105
When should a final offer be submitted?
1000.1110
How does a Tribe/Consortium submit a final offer?
1000.1115
What does a final offer contain?
1000.1120
When does the 60-day review period begin?
1000.1125
How does the Department acknowledge receipt of final offer?
1000.1130
May the Secretary request and obtain an extension of time of the 60-day review period?
1000.1135
What happens if the Secretary takes no action within the 60-day period (or any extensions thereof)?
1000.1140
Once the Tribe/Consortium's final offer has been accepted or accepted by operation of law, what is the next step?
1000.1145
On what basis may the Secretary reject a final offer?
1000.1150
How does the Secretary reject a final offer?
1000.1155
What is the “significant danger” or “risk” to the public health or safety, to natural resources, or to trust resources?
1000.1160
Is technical assistance available to a Tribe/Consortium to overcome the objections stated in the Secretary's rejection of a final offer?
1000.1165
If the Secretary rejects all or part of a final offer, is the Tribe/Consortium entitled to an appeal?
1000.1170
Do those portions of the compact, funding agreement, or amendment not in dispute go into effect?
1000.1175
Does appealing the final offer decision prevent the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium from entering into any accepted compact, funding agreement or amendment provisions that are not in dispute?
1000.1180
What is the burden of proof in an appeal of a rejection of a final offer?

# Subpart J—Waiver of Regulations
1000.1201
What regulations apply to Tribes/Consortia?
1000.1205
Can the Secretary grant a waiver of regulations to a Tribe/Consortium?
1000.1210
When can a Tribe/Consortium request a waiver of a regulation?
1000.1215
How does a Tribe/Consortium obtain a waiver?
1000.1220
How does a Tribe/Consortium operating a Public Law 102-477 Plan obtain a waiver?
1000.1225
May a Tribe/Consortium request an optional meeting or other informal discussion to discuss a waiver request?
1000.1230
Is a bureau required to provide technical assistance to a Tribe/Consortium concerning waivers?
1000.1235
How does the Secretary respond to a waiver request?
1000.1240
When must the Secretary make a decision on a waiver request?
1000.1245
How does the Secretary make a decision on the waiver request?
1000.1250
What happens if the Secretary neither approves nor denies a waiver request within the time specified in § 1000.1240?
1000.1255
May a Tribe/Consortium appeal the Secretary's decision to deny its request for a waiver of a regulation?
1000.1260
What is the term of a waiver?
1000.1265
May a Tribe/Consortium withdraw a waiver request?
1000.1270
May a Tribe/Consortium have more than one waiver request pending before the Secretary at the same time?
1000.1275
May a Tribe/Consortium continue to negotiate a funding agreement pending final decision on a waiver request?
1000.1280
How is a waiver decision documented for the record?

# Subpart K—Construction

# Construction Definitions
1000.1301
What key construction terms do I need to know?

# Purpose and Scope
1000.1305
What construction projects and programs included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement are subject to this subpart?
1000.1306
May a program or project-specific grant or contracting mechanism involving construction and related activities satisfy the requirements of this subpart?
1000.1307
May the Secretary accept funds from another Department for a program or project involving construction and related activities for transfer to the Tribe/Consortium under its funding agreement or construction project agreement?
1000.1310
What alternatives are available for a Tribe/Consortium to perform a construction program or project?
1000.1315
Does this subpart create an agency relationship?

# Notification and Project Assumption
1000.1320
Is the Secretary required to consult with affected Tribes/Consortia concerning construction projects and programs?
1000.1325
When does the Secretary confer with a Tribe/Consortium concerning Tribal preferences as to size, location, type, and other characteristics of a project?
1000.1330
What does a Tribe/Consortium do if it wants to perform a construction project or program under 25 U.S.C. 5367?
1000.1335
What must a Tribal proposal for a construction program or project contain?
1000.1340
May multiple projects be included in a single construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project?
1000.1345
Must a construction project proposal incorporate provisions of Federal construction guidelines and manuals?
1000.1350
What provisions relating to a construction project or program may be included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement?
1000.1355
What provisions must a Tribe/Consortium include in a construction project agreement or funding agreement that contains a construction project or program?

# Requirements and Standards
1000.1360
What codes, standards and architects and engineers must a Tribe/Consortium use when performing a construction project under this part?

# NEPA Process
1000.1365
Are Tribes/Consortia required to carry out activities involving NEPA in order to enter into a construction project agreement?
1000.1370
How may a Tribe/Consortium elect to assume some Federal responsibilities under NEPA?
1000.1375
How may a Tribe/Consortium carry out activities involving NEPA without assuming some Federal responsibilities?
1000.1379
Are Tribes/Consortia required to adopt a separate resolution or take equivalent Tribal action to assume some environmental responsibilities of the Secretary under NEPA, NHPA, and related laws and regulations for each construction project?
1000.1380
What additional provisions of law are related to NEPA and NHPA?
1000.1385
What is the typical environmental review process for construction projects?
1000.1390
Is the Secretary required to take into account the Indigenous Knowledge
of Tribes/Consortia when preparing environmental studies under NEPA, NHPA, and related provisions of other laws and regulations?
1000.1395
May a Tribe/Consortium act as a cooperating agency or joint lead agency for environmental review purposes regardless of whether it exercises its option under § 1000.1370(a)(1)?
1000.1400
How does a Tribe/Consortium comply with NEPA and NHPA?
1000.1405
If a Tribe/Consortium adopts the environmental review procedures of a Federal agency, is the Tribe/Consortium responsible for ensuring the agency's policies and procedures meet the requirements of NEPA, NHPA, and related environmental laws?
1000.1410
Are Federal funds available to cover the cost of Tribes/Consortia carrying out environmental responsibilities?
1000.1415
How are project and program environmental review costs identified?
1000.1420
What costs may be included in the budget for a construction project or program?
1000.1425
May the Secretary reject a Tribe's/Consortium's final offer of a construction project proposal submitted under subpart I based on a determination of Tribal capacity or capability?
1000.1430
On what basis may the Secretary reject a final offer of a construction project proposal made by a Tribe/Consortium?

# Role of the Secretary
1000.1435
What is the Secretary's role in a construction project performed under this subpart?
1000.1440
What constitutes a “significant change” in the original scope of work?
1000.1445
May the Secretary suspend construction activities under the terms of a funding agreement or construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA?
1000.1450
How are property and funding returned if there is a reassumption for substantial failure to carry out a construction project?
1000.1455
What happens when a Tribe/Consortium, suspended under § 1000.1445 for substantial failure to carry out the terms of a funding agreement that includes a construction project or program or a construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA without good cause, does not correct the failure during the suspension?
1000.1460
How does the Secretary make advance payments to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement or construction project agreement?
1000.1465
Is a facility built under this subpart eligible for annual operation and maintenance funding?

# Role of the Tribe/Consortium
1000.1470
What is the Tribe's/Consortium's role in a construction project included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement under this subpart?
1000.1475
Is a Tribe/Consortium required to submit construction project progress and financial reports for construction projects?

# Other
1000.1480
May a Tribe/Consortium continue work with construction funds remaining in a funding agreement or construction project agreement at the end of the funding year?
1000.1485
Must a construction project agreement or funding agreement that contains a construction project or activity incorporate provisions of Federal construction standards?
1000.1490
May the Secretary require design provisions and other terms and conditions for construction projects or programs included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c))?
1000.1495
Do all provisions of other subparts apply to construction portions of a funding agreement or construction project agreement?
1000.1500
When a Tribe withdraws from a Consortium, is the Secretary required to award to the withdrawing Tribe a portion of funds associated with a construction project if the withdrawing Tribe so requests?
1000.1505
May a Tribe/Consortium reallocate funds from a construction program to a non-construction program?
1000.1510
May a Tribe/Consortium reallocate funds among construction programs?
1000.1515
Must the Secretary retain project funds to ensure proper health and safety standards in construction projects?
1000.1520
What funding must the Secretary provide in a construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program?
1000.1525
Must Federal funds from other DOI sources be incorporated into a construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program?
1000.1530
May a Tribe/Consortium contribute funding to a project?

# Subpart L—Federal Tort Claims
1000.1601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.1605
What other statutes and regulations apply to FTCA coverage?
1000.1610
Do Tribes/Consortia need to be aware of areas which FTCA does not cover?
1000.1615
Is there a deadline for filing FTCA claims?
1000.1620
How long does the Federal Government have to process a FTCA claim after the claim is received by the Federal agency, before a lawsuit may be filed?
1000.1625
Is it necessary for a compact or funding agreement to include any clauses about FTCA coverage?
1000.1630
Does FTCA apply to a compact and funding agreement if FTCA is not referenced in the compact or funding agreement?
1000.1635
To what extent shall the Tribe/Consortium cooperate with the Federal Government in connection with tort claims arising out of the Tribe's/Consortium's performance of a compact, funding agreement, or subcontract?
1000.1640
Does this coverage extend to subcontractors of compacts and funding agreements?
1000.1645
Is FTCA the exclusive remedy for a tort claim, including a claim concerning personal injury or death, resulting from the performance of a compact or funding agreement?
1000.1650
What employees are covered by FTCA for claims arising out of a Tribe's/Consortia's performance of a compact or funding agreement?
1000.1655
Does FTCA cover employees of the Tribe/Consortium who are paid by the Tribe/Consortium from funds other than those provided through the funding agreement?
1000.1660
May persons who are not Indians or Alaska Natives assert claims under FTCA arising out of the performance of a compact or funding agreement by a Tribe/Consortium?
1000.1665
If the Tribe/Consortium or Tribe's/Consortium's employee receives a summons and/or a complaint alleging a tort covered by FTCA and arising out of the performance of a compact or funding agreement, what should the Tribe/Consortium do?

# Subpart M—Reassumption
1000.1701
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.1705
What does reassumption mean?
1000.1710
Under what circumstances may the Secretary reassume a program operated by a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
1000.1715
What is “imminent jeopardy” to a trust asset?
1000.1720
What is “imminent jeopardy” to natural resources?
1000.1725
What is “imminent jeopardy” to public health and safety?
1000.1730
What steps must the Secretary take prior to reassumption becoming effective?
1000.1735
Does the Tribe/Consortium have a right to a hearing prior to a non-immediate reassumption becoming effective?
1000.1740
What happens if the Secretary determines that the Tribe/Consortium has not corrected the conditions that the Secretary identified in the written notice?
1000.1745
What is the earliest date on which a reassumption by the Secretary can be effective?
1000.1750
Does the Secretary have the authority to immediately reassume a program?
1000.1755
What must a Tribe/Consortium do when a program is reassumed?
1000.1760
When must the Tribe/Consortium return funds to the Department?
1000.1765
May the Tribe/Consortium be reimbursed for actual and reasonable “wind up costs” incurred after the effective date of retrocession?
1000.1770
Is a Tribe's/Consortium's general right to negotiate a funding agreement adversely affected by a reassumption action?
1000.1775
When will the Secretary return management of a reassumed program?

# Subpart N—Retrocession
1000.1801
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.1805
Is a decision by a Tribe/Consortium not to include a program in a successor agreement considered a retrocession?
1000.1810
Who may retrocede a program in a funding agreement?
1000.1815
How does a Tribe/Consortium retrocede a program?
1000.1820
When will the retrocession become effective?
1000.1825
How will retrocession affect the Tribe's/Consortium's existing and future funding agreements?
1000.1830
Does the Tribe/Consortium have to return funds used in the operation of a retroceded program?
1000.1835
Does the Tribe/Consortium have to return property used in the operation of a retroceded program?
1000.1840
What happens to a Tribe's/Consortium's mature contract status if it has retroceded a program that is also available for self-determination contracting?
1000.1845
How does retrocession affect a bureau's operation of the retroceded program?

# Subpart O—Trust Evaluation
1000.1901
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.1905
Does the Act alter the trust responsibility of the United States to Indian Tribes and individuals under self-governance?
1000.1910
What are “trust resources” for the purposes of the trust evaluation process?
1000.1915
What are “trust PSFAs” for the purposes of the trust evaluation process?
1000.1920
Can a Tribe/Consortium request the Secretary to conduct an assessment of the status of the trust assets, resource, and PSFAs?

# Annual Trust Evaluation
1000.1925
What is a trust evaluation?
1000.1930
How are trust evaluations conducted?
1000.1935
May the trust evaluation process be used for additional reviews?
1000.1936
May the parties negotiate review methods for purposes of the trust evaluation?
1000.1940
What are the responsibilities of the Secretary's designated representative(s) after the annual trust evaluation?
1000.1945
Is the trust evaluation standard or process different when the trust resource or asset is held in trust for an individual Indian or Indian allottee?
1000.1950
Does the annual trust review evaluation include a review of the Secretary's inherent Federal and retained operation trust PSFAs?
1000.1955
What are the consequences of a finding of imminent jeopardy in the Secretary's annual trust evaluation?
1000.1960
What if the Secretary's trust evaluation reveals problems that do not rise to the level of imminent jeopardy?
1000.1965
Who is responsible for taking corrective action?
1000.1970
What are the requirements of the Department's review team report?
1000.1975
May the Department conduct more than one trust evaluation per Tribe per year?

# Subpart P—Reports
1000.2001
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.2005
Is the Secretary required to report on Self Governance?
1000.2010
What will the Secretary's annual report to Congress contain?
1000.2011
Is the Secretary required to review programs of the Department other than BIA, BIE, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, and the BTFA?
1000.2012
Is the Secretary required to annually publish information under this subpart in the
Federal Register
?
1000.2015
Must the Secretary seek comment on the report from Tribes/Consortia before submitting it to Congress?
1000.2020
What may the Tribe's/Consortium's annual report on self-governance address?
1000.2025
Are there other data submissions or reports that Tribes/Consortia may be requested to submit?
1000.2030
Are Tribes/Consortia required to submit Single Audit Act reports?
1000.2035
Is there an exemption available for the requirement to submit Single Audit Act reports?
1000.2040
Are Tribes/Consortia required to maintain reports and records in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5305?

# Subpart Q—Operational Provisions
1000.2101
How can a Tribe/Consortium hire a Federal employee to help implement a funding agreement?
1000.2105
Can a Tribe/Consortium employee be detailed to a Federal service position?
1000.2110
How does the Freedom of Information Act apply?
1000.2115
How does the Privacy Act apply?
1000.2120
What audit requirements must a Tribe/Consortium follow?
1000.2125
How do OMB circulars and the Act apply to funding agreements?
1000.2130
How much time does the Federal Government have to make a claim against a Tribe/Consortium relating to any disallowance of costs, based on an audit?
1000.2135
Does a Tribe/Consortium have additional ongoing requirements to maintain minimum standards for Tribe/Consortium management systems?
1000.2140
Are there any restrictions on how funds awarded to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement may be spent?
1000.2145
What standard applies to a Tribe's/Consortium's management of funds awarded under a funding agreement?
1000.2150
How may interest or investment income that accrues on funds awarded under a funding agreement be used?
1000.2155
Can a Tribe/Consortium retain savings from programs?
1000.2160
Can a Tribe/Consortium carry over funds not spent during the term of the funding agreement?
1000.2165
After a non-BIA funding agreement has been executed and the funds transferred to a Tribe/Consortium, can a bureau request the return of unexpended funds?
1000.2170
How can a person or group appeal a decision or contest an action related to a program operated by a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
1000.2175
Must Tribes/Consortia comply with the Secretarial approval requirements of 25 U.S.C. 81; 82a; and 476 regarding professional and attorney contracts?
1000.2180
Are funds awarded under a funding agreement non-Federal funds for the purpose of meeting matching or cost participation requirements?
1000.2185
Does Indian preference apply to services, activities, programs, and functions performed under a funding agreement?
1000.2190
Do the wage and labor standards in the Davis-Bacon Act apply to Tribes and Tribal Consortia?
1000.2195
Can a Tribe/Consortium use Federal supply sources in the performance of a funding agreement?
1000.2200
Does the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901) apply to a BIA funding Agreement?
1000.2205
Does the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901) apply to a non-BIA program funding agreement?
1000.2210
Is a Tribe/Consortium obligated to continue performance under a compact or funding agreement if the Secretary does not transfer sufficient funds?

# Subpart R—Appeals
1000.2301
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.2305
How must disputes be handled?
1000.2310
Does a Tribe/Consortium have any options besides an appeal?
1000.2315
What is the Secretary's burden of proof for appeals in this subpart?

# Informal Conference
1000.2320
How does a Tribe/Consortium request an informal conference?
1000.2325
How is an informal conference held?
1000.2330
What happens after the informal conference?

# Post-Award Disputes
1000.2335
How may a Tribe/Consortium appeal a decision made after the funding agreement or compact or an amendment to a funding agreement or compact has been signed?
1000.2340
What statutes and regulations govern resolution of disputes concerning signed funding agreements or compacts (and any signed amendments) that are appealed to the CBCA?

# Pre-Award Disputes
1000.2345
What decisions may a Tribe/Consortium appeal under §§ 1000.2345 through 1000.2395?
1000.2350
What decisions may not be appealed under §§ 1000.2345 through 1000.2395?
1000.2351
To Whom may a Tribe/Consortia appeal a decision under § 1000.2345?
1000.2355
How does a Tribe/Consortium know where and when to file an appeal?
1000.2357
Which official is the appropriate bureau head or Assistant Secretary for purposes of subpart R?

# Appeals to Bureau Head/Assistant Secretary
1000.2360
When and how must a Tribe/Consortium appeal an adverse pre-award decision to the bureau head/Assistant Secretary?
1000.2365
When must the bureau head (or appropriate Assistant Secretary) issue a final decision in the pre-award appeal?
1000.2370
When and how will the Assistant Secretary respond to an appeal by a Tribe/Consortium?

# Appeals to IBIA
1000.2375
When and how must a Tribe/Consortium appeal an adverse pre-award decision to the IBIA?
1000.2380
What happens after a Tribe/Consortium files an appeal?
1000.2385
What procedures apply to Interior Board of Indian Appeals (IBIA) proceedings?
1000.2386
What regulations govern resolution of disputes that are appealed to the IBIA?
1000.2390
Will an appeal adversely affect the Tribe's/Consortium's rights in other compact, funding negotiations, or construction project agreement?
1000.2395
Will the decision on appeal be available for the public to review?

# Appeals of an Immediate Reassumption of a Self-Governance Program
1000.2405
What happens in the case of an immediate reassumption under 25 U.S.C. 5366(b)?
1000.2410
Will there be a hearing?
1000.2415
What happens after the hearing?
1000.2420
Is the recommended decision always final?
1000.2425
If a Tribe/Consortium objects to the recommended decision, what action will the IBIA take?
1000.2430
Will an immediate reassumption appeal adversely affect the Tribe's/Consortium's rights in other self-governance negotiations?

# Equal Access to Justice Act
1000.2435
Does the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) apply to appeals under this subpart?

# Subpart S—Conflicts of Interest
1000.2501
Is a Tribe/Consortium required to have policies in place to address conflicts of interest?
1000.2505
What is an organizational conflict of interest?
1000.2510
What must a Tribe/Consortium do if an organizational conflict of interest arises under a funding agreement?
1000.2515
When must a Tribe/Consortium regulate its employees or subcontractors to avoid a personal conflict of interest?
1000.2520
What types of personal conflicts of interest involving Tribal officers, employees, or subcontractors would have to be regulated by a Tribe/Consortium?
1000.2525
What personal conflicts of interest must the standards of conduct regulate?

# Subpart T—Tribal Consultation Process
1000.2601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
1000.2605
When does the Secretary consult with Tribes and Consortia on matters related to self-governance?
1000.2610
What principles should guide consultations with Tribes and Consortia?
1000.2615
What notice must the Secretary provide to Tribes and Consortia of an upcoming consultation?
1000.2620
Is the Secretary required to allow written comments by Tribes and Consortia following a consultation?
1000.2625
What record must the Secretary maintain following a consultation with Tribes and Consortia?
1000.2630
How must the Secretary handle confidential or sensitive information provided by Tribes and Consortia during a consultation?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 5373

# Source:
89 FR 100245, Dec. 11, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1000.1
What is the authority of this part?
This part is prepared and issued by the Secretary of the Interior with the active participation and representation of Indian Tribes, Tribal organizations and inter-Tribal consortia under the negotiated rulemaking procedures required by section 413 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as amended by the PROGRESS for Indian Tribes Act, Public Law 116-180 (25 U.S.C. 5373).
§ 1000.5
What key terms do I need to know?
403(c) Program or Nexus Program
means a non-BIA program eligible under 25 U.S.C. 5363(c) and, specifically, a program, function, service, or activity that is of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance to a self-governance Tribe/Consortium. These programs may also be referred to as “nexus programs.”
Act
means title IV of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, Public Law 93-638, as amended by Public Law 103-413, Public Law 104-109, and Public Law 116-180.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department or any successor bureau. For purposes of this part, BIA shall include the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, BIE, and BTFA, or any successor bureau, unless specified otherwise.
BIA Program
means any program, service, function, or activity, or portion thereof, that is performed or administered by the Department through the BIA. For purposes of this part, BIA Program shall also include any PSFA performed or administered by the Department through the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, BIE, or BTFA which are eligible for inclusion in a compact or funding agreement under the Act unless specified otherwise.
BIE
means the Bureau of Indian Education of the Department, or any successor bureau.
BIE Program
means any program, service, function, or activity, or portion thereof, that is performed or administered by the Department through the BIE and is eligible for inclusion in a compact and funding agreement under the Act.
BTFA
means the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration of the Department, or any successor bureau, to which the Department has transferred fiduciary programs, services, functions, and activities from the Office of Special Trustee for American Indians, as it is referenced in 25 U.S.C. 5361,
et seq.,
as amended.
Bureau
means a bureau, service, office, agency, and other such subsidiary entity within the Department.
Compact
means a self-governance compact entered under 25 U.S.C. 5364.
Consortium
means an organization of Indian Tribes that is authorized by those Tribes to participate in self-governance under this part and is responsible for negotiating, executing, and implementing funding agreements and compacts.
Construction management services (CMS)
means activities limited to administrative support services, coordination, oversight of engineers and construction activities. CMS services include services that precede project design: all project design and actual construction activities are subject to subpart K of these regulations whether performed by a Tribe subcontractor, or consultant.
Construction program
or
construction project
means a Tribal undertaking relating to the administration, planning, environmental determination, design, construction, repair, improvement, or expansion of roads, bridges, buildings, structures, systems, or other facilities for purposes of housing, law enforcement, detention, sanitation, water supply, education, administration, community, health, irrigation, agriculture, conservation, flood control, transportation, or port facilities, or for other Tribal purposes.
Days
means calendar days, except where the last day of any time period specified in this part falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period must carry over to the next business day unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Self-Governance (OSG).
DOI
or
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Funding agreement
means a funding agreement entered into under 25 U.S.C. 5363.
Funding year
means either fiscal or calendar year.
Gross mismanagement
means a significant violation, shown by a preponderance of the evidence, of a compact, funding agreement, or statutory or regulatory requirement applicable to Federal funds for a PSFA administered by an Indian Tribe under a compact or funding agreement.
Indian
means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe.
Indian Tribe
or
Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation or other organized group or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native village, or regional or village corporations as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, that is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Indirect costs
means costs incurred for a common or joint purpose benefitting more than one program and that are not readily assignable to individual programs.
Indirect cost rates
means the rate(s) arrived at through negotiation between an Indian Tribe/Consortium and the appropriate Federal agency.
Inherent Federal function
means a Federal function that may not legally be delegated to an Indian Tribe.
Non-BIA Bureau
means any bureau within the Department other than the BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.
Non-BIA bureaus director/commissioner
means the director of Non-BIA bureaus and the commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation.
Non-BIA Programs
means all or a portion of a program, function, service, or activity that is administered by any bureau other than the BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs within the Department.
Office of Self-Governance (OSG)
means the office within the Office of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs responsible for the implementation and development of the Tribal Self-Governance Program.
Program
or
PSFA
means any program, service, function, or activity (or portions thereof) within the Department that is included in a funding agreement.
Public Law 93-638
means sections 1 through 9 and title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, as amended.
Reassumption
means the Secretary, without consent of the Tribe/Consortium, takes control or operation of the PSFAs and associated funding in a compact or funding agreement, in whole or in part, and assumes the responsibility to provide such PSFAs.
Residual Funds
means funding that is necessary for the Department to carry out inherent Federal functions that cannot be delegated to a Tribe/Consortia by law.
Retained Tribal shares
means those funds that were available as a Tribal share but under the funding agreement were left with BIA to administer.
Retrocession
means the voluntary full or partial return by a Tribe/Consortium to a bureau of a PSFA operated under a funding agreement before the agreement expires.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her designee authorized to act on the behalf of the Secretary as to the matter at hand.
Self-determination contract
means a self-determination contract entered into under 25 U.S.C. 5321.
Self-governance
means the Tribal Self-Governance Program established under 25 U.S.C. 5362.
Self-governance Tribe/Consortium
means a Tribe or Consortium that has been selected to participate in self-governance. May also be referred to as “participating Tribe/Consortium.”
Subsequent funding agreement
means a funding agreement negotiated after a Tribe's/Consortium's initial agreement with a bureau.
Tribal share
means the portion of all funds and resources determined for that Tribe/Consortium that supports any program within BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs and are not required by the Secretary for the performance of an inherent Federal function.
§ 1000.10
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
(a)
Purpose.
This part codifies uniform and consistent rules for the Department implementing title IV of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, 25 U.S.C. 5361
et seq.,
as amended by title II of Public Law 103-413, the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 (108 Stat. 4250, October 25, 1994) and title I of Public Law 116-180, the PROGRESS for Indian Tribes Act (134 Stat. 857, October 21, 2020).
(b)
Scope.
These regulations are binding on the Secretary and on Tribes/Consortia carrying out programs, services, functions, and activities (PSFAs) (or portions thereof) under title IV except as otherwise specifically authorized by a waiver under 25 U.S.C. 5369(b) and this part.
(c)
Information Collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), and assigned control number 1076-0143. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
§ 1000.15
What is the congressional policy statement of this part?
(a)
Congressional findings.
In the Act, the Congress found that:
(1) The Tribal right of self-governance flows from the inherent sovereignty of Indian Tribes and nations;
(2) The United States recognizes a special government-to-government relationship with Indian Tribes, including the right of the Tribes to self-governance, as reflected in the Constitution, treaties, Federal statutes, and the course of dealings of the United States with Indian Tribes;
(3) Although progress had been made, the Federal bureaucracy has discouraged, to some degree, the further compacting of Indian programs or hindered negotiations between the Department and Tribes for renewing self-governance compacts and funding agreements;
(4) Tribal Self-Governance was designed to improve and perpetuate the government-to-government relationship between Indian Tribes and the United States and to strengthen Tribal control over Federal funding and program management; and
(5) Congress further finds that:
(i) Transferring control over funding and decision making to Tribal governments, upon Tribal request, for Federal programs is an effective way to implement the Federal policy of government-to-government relations with Indian Tribes; and
(ii) Transferring control over funding and decision making to Tribal governments, upon request, for Federal programs strengthens the Federal policy of Indian self-determination.
(b)
Congressional declaration of policy.
It is the policy of the Act to permanently establish and implement self-governance:
(1) To enable the United States to maintain and improve its unique and continuing relationship with, and responsibility to, Indian Tribes;
(2) To permit each Tribe to choose the extent of its participation in self-governance;
(3) To coexist with the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act relating to the provision of Indian services by designated Federal agencies;
(4) To ensure the continuation of the trust responsibility of the United States to Indian Tribes and Indian individuals;
(5) To permit an orderly transition from Federal domination of programs and services to provide Indian Tribes with meaningful authority to plan, conduct, redesign, and administer PSFAs that meet the needs of the individual Tribal communities; and
(6) To provide for an orderly transition through a planned and measurable parallel reduction in the Federal bureaucracy.
(c)
PROGRESS Act policy.
As reflected in H. Rept. 116-422 and S. Rept. 116-34, it is the policy of the PROGRESS for Indian Tribes Act, Public Law 116-180:
(1) To clarify and streamline the Department's process for approving self-governance compacts and funding agreements;
(2) To create similarities and administrative efficiencies between title IV and title V of Public Law 93-638, as amended; and
(3) To minimize delays to self-governance compacting or funding.
§ 1000.20
What is the Secretarial policy of this part?
In carrying out Tribal self-governance under title IV, it is the policy of the Secretary:
(a) To fully support and implement the foregoing policies to the full extent of the Secretary's authority.
(b) To recognize and respect the unique government-to-government relationship between Tribes, as sovereign governments, and the United States.
(c) To have all bureaus of the Department work to further and protect the trust responsibility of the United States with respect to Tribes and individual Indians that exists under treaties, Executive orders, other laws, or court decisions.
(d) To have all bureaus of the Department work cooperatively and pro-actively with Tribes/Consortia on a government-to-government basis within the framework of the Act and any other applicable provision of law, so as to make the ideals of self-determination and self-governance a reality.
(e) To have all bureaus of the Department work to streamline the process for Tribes/Consortia participating in or applying to participate in self-governance to establish administrative efficiencies and consistency with the processes under title IV and title V of Public Law 93-638, as amended.
(f) To have all bureaus of the Department actively share information with Tribes and Tribal Consortia to encourage Tribes and Tribal Consortia to become knowledgeable about the Department's programs and the opportunities to include them in a funding agreement.
(g) To interpret each Federal law and regulation, including this part, in a manner that facilitates the inclusion of programs in funding agreements and the implementation of funding agreements.
(h) That all bureaus of the Department will negotiate in good faith, to maximize implementation of the Self-Governance policy and carry out title IV and this part in a manner that maximizes the policy of Tribal self-governance.
(i) That, subject to Public Law 116-180, title I, § 101(a), Oct. 21, 2020, 134 Stat. 857, (25 U.S.C. 5361 Note), each provision of title IV and each provision of a compact or funding agreement shall be liberally construed for the benefit of the Tribe or Consortium participating in self-governance, and that any ambiguity be resolved in favor of the Tribe or Consortium to facilitate the inclusion of programs in each funding agreement authorized.
(j) To timely enter into funding agreements under title IV, whenever possible.
(k) To afford Tribes and Tribal Consortia the maximum flexibility and discretion necessary to meet the needs of their communities consistent with their diverse demographic, geographic, economic, cultural, health, social, religious, and institutional needs. This includes recognition of and support for Indigenous Knowledge, and the Tribes' and Tribal Consortia's authority to apply such knowledge when performing PSFAs under this part. These policies are designed to facilitate and encourage Tribes and Tribal Consortia to participate in the planning, conduct, and administration of those Federal programs, included, or eligible for inclusion in a funding agreement.
(l) To the extent of the Secretary's authority, to maintain active communication with Tribal governments regarding budgetary matters applicable to programs subject to the Act, and that are included in an individual funding agreement.
(m) To implement policies, procedures, and practices at the Department to ensure that the letter, spirit, and goals of the Act are fully and successfully implemented to the maximum extent allowed by law.
(n) To ensure that Executive Order 13175 on Consultation and Coordination with Indian Tribal Governments and any subsequent Executive Orders regarding consultation will apply to the implementation of these regulations.
§ 1000.25
What is the effect on existing Tribal rights?
Nothing in this part shall be construed as:
(a) Affecting, modifying, diminishing, or otherwise impairing the sovereign immunity from suit enjoyed by Indian Tribes;
(b) Terminating, waiving, modifying, or reducing the trust responsibility of the United States to the Indian Tribe(s) or individual Indians. The Secretary must act in good faith in upholding this trust responsibility;
(c) Requiring an Indian Tribe to participate in self-governance; or
(d) Impeding awards by other Departments and agencies of the United States to Indian Tribes to administer Indian programs under any other applicable law.
§ 1000.30
What is the effect of these regulations on Federal program guidelines, manual, or policy directives?
Unless expressly agreed to by the Tribe/Consortium in a compact or funding agreement, the Tribe/Consortium shall not be subject to any agency circular, policy, manual, guidance, or rule adopted by the Department, except for the eligibility provisions of 25 U.S.C. 5324(g) and the regulations under this part to the extent a regulatory provision is not waived by the Secretary.
§ 1000.35
What happens if a court holds any provisions of these regulations in this part invalid?
If a court holds any provisions of these regulations in this part or their applicability to any person or circumstances invalid, the remainder of the regulations and their applicability to other people or circumstances are intended to operate to the fullest possible extent.

# Subpart B—Selection of Additional Tribes for Participation in Tribal Self-Governance

# Purpose and Definitions
§ 1000.101
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes the selection process and eligibility criteria that the Secretary uses to decide that Indian Tribes may participate in Tribal self-governance as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 5362.
§ 1000.105
What is a “signatory”?
A signatory is a Tribe or Consortium that meets the eligibility criteria in §§ 1000.115 and 1000.125 and directly signs the agreements. A signatory may exercise all of the rights and responsibilities outlined in the compact and funding agreement and is legally responsible for all financial and administrative decisions made by the signatory.
§ 1000.110
What is a “nonsignatory Tribe”?
(a) A nonsignatory Tribe is a Tribe that either:
(1) Does not meet the eligibility criteria in §§ 1000.115 and 1000.125 and, by resolution of its governing body, authorizes a Consortium to participate in self-governance on its behalf; or
(2) Meets the eligibility criteria in §§ 1000.115 and 1000.125 but chooses to be a member of a Consortium and have a representative of the Consortium sign the compact and funding agreement on its behalf.
(b) A non-signatory Tribe under paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(1) May not sign the compact and funding agreement. A representative of the Consortium must sign both documents on behalf of the Tribe.
(2) May only become a “signatory Tribe” if it independently meets the eligibility criteria in §§ 1000.115 and 1000.125.

# Eligibility
§ 1000.115
Who may participate in Tribal self-governance?
There are two types of entities who may participate in Tribal self-governance:
(a) Indian Tribes; and
(b) Consortia of Indian Tribes.
§ 1000.120
How many additional Tribes/Consortia may participate in self-governance per year?
(a) The Secretary, acting through the Director of the OSG, may select not more than 50 new Indian Tribes per year from those Tribes eligible under 25 U.S.C. 5362(c) to participate in self-governance. A Consortium of Indian Tribes counts as one Tribe for purposes of calculating the 50 additional Tribes per year.
(b) The limitation of not more than 50 new Tribes per year does not preclude a signatory Tribe from negotiating a new or amended compact or funding agreement. Such new or amended compacts or funding agreements do not count against the limitation of not more than 50 new Tribes per year.
§ 1000.125
What must a Tribe/Consortium submit to be selected to participate in Self-Governance?
The Tribe/Consortium must submit to OSG documentation that demonstrates the following:
(a) Successful completion of a planning phase as described in § 1000.140. A Consortium's planning activities satisfy this requirement for all its member Tribes for the purpose of the Consortium meeting this requirement.
(b) A request for participation in self-governance by a Tribal resolution and/or a final official action by the Tribal governing body. For a Consortium, the governing body of each Tribe must authorize its participation by a Tribal resolution and/or a final official action by the Tribal governing body that specifies the scope of the Consortium's authority to act on behalf of the Tribe.
(c) For a Tribe/Consortium required to perform an annual audit under the Single Audit Act and subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, financial stability and financial management capability as evidenced by the Tribe (or participating Tribes in a Consortium) having no uncorrected significant and material audit exceptions in the required annual audit of its self-determination or self-governance agreements with any Federal agency for the three fiscal years preceding the date on which the Tribe/Consortium requests participation, provided that documentation demonstrating the correction of any significant and material audit exceptions may include, but is not limited to, Agency Management Decision Letters issued in accordance with 2 CFR 200.521, Summary Schedule of Prior Audit Findings included in subsequent audit reports in accordance with 2 CFR 200.511, or any documentation provided by the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.130
What additional information may be submitted to the Secretary to facilitate negotiations?
At the option of the Tribe/Consortium, a Tribe/Consortium may identify BIA and non-BIA programs that the Tribe/Consortium may wish to subsequently negotiate for inclusion in a funding agreement. The inclusion of PSFAs in a funding agreement is not limited by the provision of this additional information.
§ 1000.135
May a Consortium member Tribe withdraw from the Consortium and be selected to participate in Self-Governance?
In accordance with the expressed terms of the compact or written agreement of the Consortium, a Consortium member Tribe (either a signatory or nonsignatory Tribe) may fully or partially withdraw from a participating Consortium its share of any program included in a compact or funding agreement to directly negotiate a compact and funding agreement. The withdrawing Tribe must do the following:
(a) Independently meet all of the eligibility criteria in §§ 1000.115 through 1000.140. If a Consortium's planning activities specifically consider self-governance activities for a member Tribe, that planning activity may be used to satisfy the planning requirements for the member Tribe if it applies for self-governance status on its own.
(b) Submit a notice of withdrawal to OSG and the Consortium as evidenced by a resolution of the Tribal governing body.
§ 1000.140
What is required during the “planning phase”?
The planning phase must be conducted to the satisfaction of the Tribe/Consortium and must include:
(a) Legal and budgetary research; and
(b) Internal Tribal government, planning, training, and organizational preparation related to the operation of PSFAs contemplated by the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.145
When does a Tribe/Consortium have an uncorrected “significant and material audit exception”?
A Tribe/Consortium has an uncorrected significant and material audit exceptions if any of the audits that it submitted under § 1000.125(c) identifies:
(a) Significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control over major programs and significant instances of abuse relating to major programs which the Tribe/Consortium has not corrected;
(b) Material noncompliance with the provisions of Federal statutes, regulations, or the terms and conditions of Federal awards related to a major program which the Tribe/Consortium has not corrected; or
(c) A single finding of known questioned costs subsequently disallowed by a contracting officer or awarding official that exceeds $25,000 (or such higher amount as may be established in 2 CFR 200.516).
§ 1000.150
What are the consequences of having an uncorrected significant and material audit exception?
If a Tribe/Consortium has an uncorrected significant and material audit exception, the Tribe/Consortium is ineligible to be selected to participate in self-governance until the Tribe/Consortium meets the documentation requirements in § 1000.125.
§ 1000.155
Is the Secretary required to provide technical assistance to improve a Tribe's/Consortium's internal controls?
Yes. In considering proposals by a Tribe/Consortium for participation in Self-Governance, if the Secretary determines that the Tribe/Consortium lacks adequate internal controls necessary to manage PSFAs proposed for inclusion in a compact or funding agreement under this part, the Secretary shall, as soon as practicable, provide the necessary technical assistance to assist the Tribe/Consortium in developing adequate internal controls in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5324(q)(1).

# Selection To Participate in Self-Governance
§ 1000.160
How is a Tribe/Consortium selected to participate in Self-Governance?
(a) For a Tribe not presently participating in Self Governance to be selected, the Tribe/Consortium may submit a request to the Director at any time, but no later than 180 days before the proposed effective date of the funding agreement (
e.g.,
October 1, January 1, or such other date as the parties agree). The request must contain the documentation required in § 1000.125.
(b) OSG shall select a Tribe/Consortium to participate in self-governance upon a determination that the Tribe/Consortium has provided the required documentation in § 1000.125, consistent with 25 U.S.C. 5362(b)(1)(A).
(c) OSG shall notify the Tribe/Consortium no later than 45-days after receipt of the Tribe's/Consortium's request that the Tribe/Consortium has been selected to participate in self-governance or does not have a complete request under § 1000.185.
§ 1000.165
When does OSG accept requests to participate in Self-Governance?
OSG accepts requests at any time. A Tribe/Consortium may request a meeting or other informal discussion with the OSG before submitting its request to participate.
§ 1000.170
Are there any time frames to negotiate an initial compact or funding agreement for a Tribe not presently participating in self-governance?
Yes.
(a) Once selected to participate in self-governance, the parties should begin negotiations at least 180 days before the proposed effective date of the initial funding agreement and compact (
e.g.,
October 1, January 1, or such other date as the parties agree in the initial funding agreement or compact).
(b) A Tribe/Consortium may be selected to participate during one year but negotiate a compact and funding agreement in a subsequent year. In this case, the Tribe/Consortium must, before the applicable period established in § 1000.160, submit to OSG documentation demonstrating continued eligibility under 25 U.S.C. 5362(c).
§ 1000.175
How does a Tribe/Consortium withdraw its request to participate in Self-Governance?
A Tribe/Consortium may withdraw its request to participate in Self Governance by submitting a Tribal resolution or official action by the Tribal governing body to the Director of OSG.
§ 1000.180
What if more than 50 Tribes/Consortium apply to participate in Self-Governance?
The first 50 Tribes/Consortium who apply and are determined to be eligible under § 1000.160 shall have the option to begin to participate in self-governance. Any Tribe/Consortium denied participation due to the limitation in number of Tribes/Consortium is entitled to participate in the next fiscal year, provided the Tribe/Consortium remains eligible under 25 U.S.C. 5362(c).
§ 1000.185
What happens if a request is not complete?
If OSG determines that a Tribe's/Consortium's request is not complete, OSG will notify the Tribe/Consortium that the request is not complete under § 1000.125 by electronic mail and by letter, certified mail, return receipt requested no later than 45-days after receipt of the Tribe's/Consortium's request. The email and letter will explain what the Tribe/Consortium must do to complete the request.
§ 1000.190
What happens if a Tribe/Consortium is selected to participate but does not execute a compact and a funding agreement?
(a) The Tribe/Consortium remains eligible to negotiate a compact and funding agreement at any time unless:
(1) It does not satisfy the eligibility requirements under 25 U.S.C. 5362(c); or
(2) Submits a Tribal resolution or official action by the Tribal governing body to the Director, OSG requesting to withdraw its request to participate in Self Governance.
(b) Whether or not a Tribe/Consortium executes an agreement has no effect on the selection of up to 50 new Tribes/Consortia in a subsequent year.
§ 1000.195
May a Tribe/Consortium be selected to negotiate a funding agreement under section 403(b)(2) of the Act without having or negotiating a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1)?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium may be selected to negotiate a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) without having or negotiating a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1).
§ 1000.200
May a Tribe/Consortium be selected to negotiate a funding agreement under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c)) without negotiating a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1) and/or section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2))?
No, 25 U.S.C. 5363(c) of the Act states that any programs of special geographic, cultural, or historical significance to the Tribe/Consortium must be
included in funding agreements negotiated under 25 U.S.C. 5363(a) and/or 25 U.S.C. 5363(b). A Tribe may be selected to negotiate a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(c) at the same time that it negotiates a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1) and/or 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2).

# Withdrawal From a Consortium Funding Agreement
§ 1000.205
What happens when a Tribe wishes to withdraw from a Consortium funding agreement?
(a) A Tribe wishing to withdraw from all or a part of a Consortium's funding agreement must notify the parties to the compact and funding agreement. The notice must:
(1) Be in the form of a Tribal resolution or other official action by the Tribal governing body; and
(2) Be received no later than 180 days before the effective date of the next Consortium funding agreement, unless the parties agree to another date.
(b) The resolution referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must indicate whether the Tribe wishes the withdrawn programs to be administered under a title IV funding agreement, title I contract, or directly by the bureau.
(c) The effective date of the withdrawal will be the date specified in the Tribal resolution and mutually agreed upon by the parties that signed the compact and funding agreement. In the absence of a specific time set forth in the resolution, such withdrawal becomes effective on:
(1) The earlier of one year after the date of submission of the request, or the date on which the funding agreement expires; or
(2) Such date as may be mutually agreed upon by the withdrawing Tribe and the parties that signed the compact and funding agreement.
§ 1000.210
How are funds redistributed when a withdrawing Tribe fully or partially withdraws from a compact and funding agreement and enters a new contract or compact?
When a Tribe eligible to enter into a contract under title I or a compact or funding agreement under title IV fully or partially withdraws from a participating Consortium, and has proposed to enter into a contract or compact and funding agreement covering the withdrawn funds:
(a) The withdrawing Tribe is entitled to its Tribal share of funds supporting those programs that the Tribe will be carrying out under its own contract or compact and funding agreement (calculated on the same basis or methodology upon which the funds were included in the Consortium's funding agreement); and
(b) The funds referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be transferred from the Consortium's funding agreement, on the condition that the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 5321 and 5324(i), as appropriate, apply to the withdrawing Tribe.
§ 1000.215
If the withdrawing Tribe elects to operate a program carried out under a compact and funding agreement under title IV through a contract under title I, is the resulting contract considered a mature contract under 25 U.S.C. 5304(h)?
If a Tribe withdrawing from a Consortium's funding agreement elects to operate a program carried out under a compact and funding agreement under title IV through a contract under title I, at the option of the Tribe, the resulting contract is considered a mature contract as long as the Tribe meets the requirements set forth in 25 U.S.C. 5304(h).
§ 1000.220
How are funds distributed when a withdrawing Tribe fully or partially withdraws from a Consortium's compact and funding agreement and the withdrawing Tribe does not enter a new contract or compact?
All funds not obligated by the Consortium associated with the withdrawing Tribe's returned Tribal share of funds, less close out costs, shall be returned by the Consortium to DOI for operation of the programs included in the withdrawal.
§ 1000.225
What amount of funding is to be removed from the Consortium's funding agreement for the withdrawing Tribe?
When a Tribe withdraws from a Consortium, the Consortium's funding
agreement must be reduced by the portion of funds attributable to the withdrawing Tribe. The Consortium must reduce the funding agreement on the same basis or methodology upon which the funds were included in the Consortium's funding agreement.
(a) If there is not a clear identifiable methodology upon which to base the reduction for a particular program, the parties to the compact and funding agreement must negotiate an appropriate amount on a case-by-case basis.
(b) If a Tribe withdraws in the middle of a funding year, the Consortium agreement must be amended to reflect:
(1) A reduction based on the amount of funds passed directly to the Tribe, or already spent or obligated by the Consortium on behalf of the Tribe; and
(2) That the Consortium is no longer providing those programs associated with the withdrawn funds.
(c) Unexpended funds from a previous fiscal year may be factored into the amount by which the Consortium agreement is reduced if:
(1) The parties to the compact and funding agreement and the withdrawing Tribe agree it is appropriate; and
(2) The funds are clearly identifiable.
§ 1000.230
What happens if there is a dispute between the Consortium and the withdrawing Tribe?
(a) The withdrawing Tribe and the parties to the compact and funding agreement must reach an agreement on the amount of funding and other issues associated with the program(s) involved.
(b) If agreement is not reached:
(1) For BIA Programs, the Director of OSG must make a decision on the funding or other issues involved within 45-days of the Tribe's or Consortium's written submittal of the dispute to the Director of OSG with a copy to the other party.
(2) For non-BIA Programs, the bureau head will make a decision on the funding or other issues involved.
(c) A copy of the decision made under paragraph (b) of this section must be distributed in accordance with the following table:
If the program is administered through . . .
then a copy of the decision must be sent to . . .
(1) The BIA
The BIA Regional Director, the BIA Director, the withdrawing Tribe, and the Consortium.
(2) The BIE
The BIE Associate Deputy Director, the BIE Director, the withdrawing Tribe, and the Consortium.
(3) The BTFA
The BTFA Director, the withdrawing Tribe, and the Consortium.
(4) The Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs
The Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, the withdrawing Tribe, and the Consortium.
(d) Any decision made under paragraph (b) of this section is appealable under subpart R of this part.
§ 1000.235
When a Tribe withdraws from a Consortium, is the Secretary required to award to the withdrawing Tribe a portion of funds associated with a construction project if the withdrawing Tribe so requests?
Under § 1000.205, a Tribe may withdraw from a Consortium and request that the Secretary award the Tribe its portion of a construction project's funds. The Secretary may decide not to award these funds if the Secretary determines that the award of the withdrawing Tribe's portion of funds would affect the ability of the remaining members of the Consortium to complete a severable or non-severable phase of the project within available funding.
(a) An example of a non-severable phase of a project would be the construction of a single building to serve all members of a Consortium.
(b) An example of a severable phase of a project would be the funding of a road in one village where the Consortium would be able to complete the roads in other villages that were part of the project approved initially in the funding agreement.
(c) The Secretary's decision under this section may be appealed under subpart R of this part.

# Subpart C—Planning and Negotiation Grants for BIA Programs
§ 1000.301
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes how a Tribe/Consortium seeking to begin or expand its participation in self-governance may request grants to assist with its required planning phase and to negotiate a compact and funding agreement.
§ 1000.305
Are there grants available to assist Tribes/Consortia to meet the requirements to participate in self-governance?
Yes, any Tribe/Consortium may apply, as provided in § 1000.315, for a grant to assist it to:
(a) Plan to participate in self-governance; and
(b) Negotiate the terms of the compact and funding agreement between the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary.
§ 1000.310
What is required to request planning and negotiation grants?
A Tribe/Consortium seeking a planning or negotiation grant must submit the following:
(a) A resolution or other final action by the Tribe's/Consortium's governing body requesting to begin or expand its participation in self-governance and to receive a grant; and
(b) For a Tribe/Consortium required to perform an annual audit under the Single Audit Act and subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, evidence showing that the Tribe/Consortium has no uncorrected significant and material audit exceptions in the required annual audit of its self-determination or self-governance agreements with any Federal agency for the three fiscal years preceding its current request to participate in self-governance.
§ 1000.315
Are planning and negotiation grants available?
Subject to the availability of funds, the Department will annually publish a notice of the number of planning and negotiation grants available, an explanation of the application process for such grants, and the criteria for award. Questions may be directed to the OSG.
§ 1000.320
Must a Tribe/Consortium receive a planning or negotiation grant to be eligible to participate in self-governance?
No, a Tribe/Consortium may use other resources to meet the planning requirement and to negotiate. The award of a planning grant or a negotiation grant is not required in order to meet the planning phase requirement of the Act or to negotiate a compact or funding agreement.
§ 1000.325
What happens if there are insufficient funds to award all of the requests for planning and negotiation grants in any given year?
The Secretary must give funding priority to approved requests for negotiation grants if there are insufficient funds to award all the approved requests for planning and negotiation grants in any given year.
§ 1000.330
May a Tribe/Consortium that has received a planning grant also receive a negotiation grant?
Yes. A planning grant and a negotiation grant may be awarded to the same Tribe/Consortium in the same or separate years.
§ 1000.335
What are the Secretary's responsibilities upon a decision not to award a planning or negotiation grant?
The Secretary must communicate in writing the reasons for denying a planning or negotiation grant, and offer the Tribe/Consortium any technical assistance that might make an award possible.
§ 1000.340
May a Tribe/Consortium administratively appeal the Secretary's decision to not award a grant under this subpart?
No. The Secretary's decision to not award a grant under this subpart is final for the Department.

# Subpart D—Financial Assistance for Planning and Negotiation Activities for Non-BIA Bureau Programs
§ 1000.401
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes additional requirements and criteria applicable to receiving financial assistance for planning and negotiating activities for a non-BIA program.
§ 1000.405
What funds are available to Tribes/Consortium for planning and negotiating activities with non-BIA bureaus?
(a) Tribes/Consortium may contact a non-BIA bureau to determine if funds may be available for the purpose of planning and negotiating activities with non-BIA bureaus under this subpart, including grants awarded pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5362(e).
(b) Tribes/Consortium may also request information identified in § 1000.1025(b)(2).
§ 1000.410
What kinds of planning and negotiation activities for non-BIA programs does financial assistance from non-BIA bureaus support?
Financial assistance received by a Tribe/Consortium from non-BIA bureaus for planning and negotiation activities for non-BIA programs may support activities such as, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Information gathering and analysis;
(b) Planning activities, that may include notification and consultation with the appropriate non-BIA bureau and identification and/or analysis of activities, resources, and capabilities that may be needed for the Tribe/Consortium to assume non-BIA programs; and
(c) Negotiation activities.
§ 1000.415
Who can apply to a non-BIA bureau for financial assistance to plan and negotiate non-BIA programs?
A Tribe/Consortium may apply for financial assistance to plan and negotiate non-BIA programs if the Tribe/Consortium meets the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 5362(e) and;
(a) Applied to participate in self-governance; or
(b) Has been selected to participate in self-governance; or
(c) Has negotiated and entered into an existing funding agreement.
§ 1000.420
Under what circumstances may financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities with non-BIA bureaus be awarded to Tribes/Consortia?
At the discretion of the non-BIA bureau's director/commissioner, financial assistance to plan and negotiate non-BIA programs may be awarded when requested by the Tribe/Consortium. A Tribe/Consortium may submit only one application per year for financial assistance under this section.
§ 1000.425
How does the Tribe/Consortium know when and how to apply for financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program?
Subject to the availability of funds, the Secretary will annually publish a notice in the
Federal Register
identifying the number of planning and negotiation grants available from non-BIA bureaus that includes an explanation for each non-BIA bureau describing the application process and criteria for award. The notice will identify a point-of-contact for each non-BIA bureau where questions about the grants can be directed. Notices for planning and negotiation grants for BIA programs are covered in § 1000.315.
§ 1000.430
What must be included in the application for financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program?
The application for financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program must include:
(a) Written notification by the governing body or its authorized representative of the Tribe's/Consortium's intent to engage in planning/negotiation activities like those described in § 1000.410;
(b) Written description of the planning and/or negotiation activities that the Tribe/Consortium intends to undertake, including, if appropriate, documentation of the relationship between
the proposed activities and the Tribe/Consortium;
(c) The proposed timeline for completion of the planning and/or negotiation activities to be undertaken; and
(d) The amount requested.
§ 1000.435
How will the non-BIA bureau director/commissioner award financial assistance for planning and negotiation activities for a non-BIA program?
The non-BIA bureau director/commissioner must review all applications received by the date specified in the announcement to determine whether or not the applications include the required elements outlined in the announcement. The non-BIA bureau must rank the complete applications submitted by the deadline using the criteria in the notice of funding availability.
§ 1000.440
May non-BIA bureaus provide technical assistance to a Tribe/Consortium in drafting its application?
Yes, upon request from the Tribe/Consortium and subject to the availability of resources, a non-BIA bureau may provide technical assistance to the Tribe/Consortium in the drafting of its application.
§ 1000.445
What are the non-BIA bureau director's/commissioner's responsibilities upon a decision to decline financial assistance?
The non-BIA bureau director/commissioner must communicate in writing the reasons for declining to award financial assistance and offer the Tribe/Consortium technical assistance that might make an award successful through a future application.
§ 1000.450
Can an applicant administratively appeal a decision not to award financial assistance?
No, all decisions made by the non-BIA bureau director/commissioner to award or not to award financial assistance under this subpart are final for the Department.
§ 1000.455
May a Tribe/Consortium reapply through a future planning and negotiation application if it has been previously denied?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium may reapply through a future planning and negotiation application.
§ 1000.460
Will the non-BIA bureau notify Tribes/Consortium of the results of the selection process?
Yes, the non-BIA bureau will notify all applicant Tribes/Consortium in writing as soon as possible after completing the selection process.

# Subpart E—Compacts
§ 1000.501
What is a self-governance compact?
A self-governance compact is a legally binding and mutually enforceable written agreement that affirms the government-to-government relationship between a self-governance Tribe and the United States consistent with the trust responsibility of the Federal Government with respect to Indian Tribes that exists under treaties, Executive orders, court decisions, and other laws. The compact differs from a funding agreement in that parts of the compact apply to all bureaus within the Department rather than a single bureau.
§ 1000.505
Which DOI office negotiates self-governance compacts?
The DOI OSG negotiates self-governance compacts.
§ 1000.510
What is included in a self-governance compact?
A compact shall include general terms setting forth the government-to-government relationship consistent with the Federal Government's trust responsibility with respect to Indian Tribes that exists under treaties, Executive orders, court decisions, and other laws and such other terms as the parties intend to control during the term of the compact. Each self-governance compact must:
(a) Specify and affirm the general terms of the government-to-government relationship between the Tribe and the Secretary;
(b) State the general terms and conditions of the compact;
(c) Identify the effective date of the compact;
(d) Identify the duration of the compact; and
(e) Include provisions that reflect the requirements of the Act in accordance with § 1000.515.
§ 1000.515
What provisions must be included in either a compact or funding agreement?
Subject to 25 U.S.C. 5365, the following must be included in either a compact or funding agreement. The Tribe/Consortium may include the following in either a compact or funding agreement:
(a) Conflicts of interest;
(b) Applicable cost principles and application of the Single Audit Act;
(c) Limitations on remedies relating to cost disallowances;
(d) For non-construction programs, authorization for the Tribe/Consortium to redesign or consolidate eligible programs and to reallocate funds for such programs;
(e) Reassumption;
(f) Retrocession; and
(g) Recordkeeping.
§ 1000.520
Is a compact required to participate in self-governance?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium must have a compact in order to participate in self-governance.
§ 1000.525
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate other terms and conditions?
Yes, the Secretary and a self-governance Tribe/Consortium may negotiate additional terms relating to the government-to-government relationship between the Tribe(s) and the United States consistent with the trust responsibility of the Federal Government with respect to Indian Tribes that exists under treaties, Executive orders, court decisions, and other laws. A Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary may agree to include any provision from title I of the Act, as amended, in a compact provided that the inclusion of any such provision shall be subject to, and shall not conflict with, section 101(a) of the PROGRESS for Indian Tribes Act, Pub. L. 116-180 (25 U.S.C. 5361 note).
§ 1000.530
What is the duration of a compact?
Upon approval and execution of a compact, the compact remains in effect for so long as authorized by Federal law or until terminated by mutual written agreement or retrocession or reassumption of all programs.
§ 1000.535
May a compact be amended?
A compact may be amended at any time subject to the applicable negotiation procedures contained in this part, or by written agreement of the parties.
§ 1000.540
Can a Tribe/Consortium have a funding agreement without having negotiated a compact?
No, a compact is a separate document from a funding agreement, and the compact may be negotiated prior to or at the same time as a funding agreement.
§ 1000.545
May a participating Tribe/Consortium retain its existing compact which was executed prior to the enactment of Public Law 116-180?
Yes, a participating Tribe/Consortium with a negotiated compact executed prior to October 21, 2020, the enactment of Public Law 116-180, shall have the option at any time after that date to:
(a) Retain its existing compact, in whole or in part, to the extent that the provisions of the compact are not directly contrary to any express provision of the Act, as amended, or
(b) Negotiate a new compact in accordance with the Act.
§ 1000.550
What happens if the Tribe/Consortium and Secretary fail to reach an agreement on a compact?
If the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium have negotiated and are unable to reach agreement, in whole or in part, on the terms of a compact then the Tribe/Consortium may submit a final offer in accordance with subpart I of this part.

# Subpart F—Funding Agreements for BIA Programs
§ 1000.601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes the components of funding agreements for BIA programs.
§ 1000.605
What is a funding agreement?
Funding agreements are legally binding and mutually enforceable written agreements negotiated and entered into between a self-governance Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary.

# Contents and Scope of Funding Agreements
§ 1000.610
What must be included in a funding agreement?
(a) Each funding agreement must:
(1) Specify the PSFAs that the Tribe/Consortium is authorized to plan, conduct, consolidate, and administer and the responsibilities of the Secretary as outlined in § 1000.650;
(2) Provide for the Secretary to monitor the performance of trust functions administered by the Tribe/Consortium through the annual trust evaluation as specified in subpart O of this part;
(3) Provide for annual or semi-annual installments of advance payment(s), at the option of the Tribe/Consortium;
(4) Provide for the incorporation of required provisions of title I of Public Law 93-638, as amended, pursuant to section 201(d) of the PROGRESS for Indian Tribes Act, and for the incorporation of other provisions of title I of Public Law 93-638, as amended, at the option of the Tribe/Consortium;
(5) Provide for a stable base budget as outlined in §§ 1000.745 through 1000.760, at the option of the Tribe/Consortium;
(6) Prohibit the Secretary from waiving, modifying, or diminishing the trust responsibility of the United States;
(7) Specify the funding agreement's effective date;
(8) Prohibit the Tribe/Consortium from contracting with the Secretary for duplicative funds and/or PSFAs under title I;
(9) Provide that the Tribe/Consortium shall be eligible for new programs and new funding on the same basis as other Indian Tribes; and shall be responsible for the administration of programs in accordance with the compact or funding agreement;
(10) Provide the funding amount(s); and
(11) Include as attachments and incorporate by reference additional documents agreed upon by the parties.
(b) Subject to 25 U.S.C. 5365, the following must be included in either a compact or funding agreement. The Tribe/Consortium may include the following in either a compact or funding agreement:
(1) Conflicts of Interest;
(2) Applicable Cost Principles and application of the Single Audit Act;
(3) Limitations on remedies relating to cost disallowances;
(4) For non-construction programs, authorization for the Tribe/Consortium to redesign or consolidate programs and to reallocate funds for such programs;
(5) Reassumption;
(6) Retrocession; and
(7) Recordkeeping.
§ 1000.615
Can additional provisions be included in a funding agreement?
Yes, any provision that the parties mutually agreed upon may be included in a funding agreement.
§ 1000.620
Does a Tribe/Consortium have the right to include provisions of title I of Public Law 93-638 in a funding agreement?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium has the right to include any provision of title I of Public Law 93-638, as amended, in a funding agreement.
§ 1000.625
What is the term of a funding agreement?
A funding agreement shall have the term mutually agreed to by the parties. Absent notification from a Tribe/Consortium that it is withdrawing or retroceding the operation of one or more programs identified in a funding agreement or by the nature of any noncontinuing PSFA contained in a funding agreement, the funding agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a subsequent funding agreement is executed.
§ 1000.630
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate a funding agreement with a term that exceeds one year?
Yes, at the option of the Tribe/Consortium, and subject to the availability of Congressional appropriations, a Tribe/Consortium may negotiate a funding agreement with a term that exceeds one year under 25 U.S.C. 5363(p)(4).
§ 1000.635
Does a funding agreement remain in effect after the end of its term?
Yes, the provisions of a funding agreement, including all recurring increases received and continuing eligibility for other increases, remain in full force and effect until a subsequent funding agreement is executed, including coverage of the Tribe/Consortium under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) 28 U.S.C. 2671 through 2680. Upon execution of a subsequent funding agreement, the provisions of such a funding agreement are retroactive to the term of the preceding funding agreement for purposes of calculating the amount of funding to which the Tribe/Consortium is entitled.
§ 1000.640
May a participating Tribe/Consortium retain its existing funding agreement which was executed prior to the enactment of Public Law 116-180?
Yes, a participating Tribe/Consortium with a funding agreement executed prior to October 21, 2020, the enactment of Public Law 116-180, shall have the option at any time after that date to:
(a) Retain its existing funding agreement, in whole or in part, to the extent that the funding agreement is not contrary to the Act, as amended by Public Law 116-180; or
(b) Negotiate a new funding agreement.

# Determining What Programs May Be Included in a Funding Agreement
§ 1000.645
What PSFAs may be included in a funding agreement?
A Tribe/Consortium may include in its funding agreement PSFAs administered by the Secretary for the benefit of Indians because of their status as Indian, including, but not limited to those provided through the BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, and the Appraisal and Valuation Services Office, without regard to the agency or office of that Bureau or Office, including any PSFA identified in 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(1).
§ 1000.650
How does the funding agreement specify the services provided, functions performed, and responsibilities assumed by the Tribe/Consortium and those retained by the Secretary?
(a) The funding agreement must specify in writing the services, functions, and responsibilities to be assumed by the Tribe/Consortium and the functions, services, and responsibilities to be retained by the Secretary.
(b) Any division of responsibilities between the Tribe/Consortium and BIA must be clearly stated in writing as part of the funding agreement. Similarly, when there is a relationship between the program and BIA's inherent Federal functions, the relationship must be explained in the funding agreement.
§ 1000.655
May a Tribe/Consortium redesign or consolidate the programs that are included in a funding agreement and reallocate funds for such programs?
Except where a statute contains specific limitations on the use of funds, a Tribe/Consortium may redesign or consolidate programs included in a funding agreement and reallocate funds for such programs in any manner which it deems to be in the best interest of the Indian community being served, so long as the redesign or consolidation does not have the effect of denying eligibility for services to population groups otherwise eligible to be served under applicable Federal law; provided however, that a reduction in funds available for a program or service shall not be considered a denial of eligibility for services. However, redesign of construction project(s) included in a funding agreement must be done in accordance with subpart K of this part.
§ 1000.660
Do Tribes/Consortium need Secretarial approval to redesign BIA programs that the Tribe/Consortium administers under a funding agreement?
No, the Secretary does not have to approve a redesign of a program under the funding agreement, except when the redesign involves:
(a) Programs described in 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) or (c); or
(b) A request to waive a regulation.
§ 1000.665
Can the terms and conditions in a funding agreement be amended during the year it is in effect?
Yes, terms and conditions in a funding agreement may be amended during the year it is in effect as agreed to by both the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary.

# Determining Funding Agreement Amounts
§ 1000.670
What funds must be transferred to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
(a) Subject to the terms of a funding agreement, the Secretary must transfer to a Tribe/Consortium all funds provided for in the funding agreement, pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5368. The Secretary shall provide funding for periods covered by joint resolution adopted by Congress making continuing appropriations, to the extent permitted by such resolution.
(b) At the option of the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must provide the following program funds to the Tribe/Consortium through a funding agreement:
(1) An amount equal to the amount that the Tribe/Consortium would have been eligible to receive under contracts and grants for direct programs and contract support under title I of Public Law 93-638, as amended;
(2) Any funds that are specifically or functionally related to providing services and benefits to the Tribe/Consortium or its members by the Secretary without regard to the organizational level within BIA where such functions are carried out; and
(3) Any funds otherwise available to Indian Tribes or Indians for which appropriations are made to other Federal agencies and transferred to the Department as directed by law, an Interagency Agreement, or other means.
(c) Examples of the funds referred to in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are:
(1) A Tribe's/Consortium's Public Law 93-638 contract amounts;
(2) Negotiated amounts of agency, regional and central office funds, including previously undistributed funds or new programs on the same basis as they are made available to other Tribes;
(3) Other recurring funding;
(4) Non-recurring funding;
(5) Special projects, if applicable;
(6) Construction;
(7) Wildland firefighting accounts;
(8) Competitive grants; and
(9) Congressional earmarked funding.
(d) Examples of the funds referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are:
(1) Federal Highway Administration funds;
(2) Federal Transit Administration funds; and
(3) Funding pursuant to an approved plan under Public Law 102-477, as amended.
§ 1000.675
What funds may not be included in a funding agreement?
Funds associated with programs prohibited from inclusion under 25 U.S.C. 5363(m)(1) may not be included in a funding agreement.
§ 1000.680
May the Secretary place any requirements on programs and funds that are otherwise available to Tribes/Consortium or Indians for which appropriations are made to agencies other than DOI?
No, unless the Secretary is required to develop terms and conditions that are required by law or that are required by the agency to which the appropriation is made.
§ 1000.685
What funds are used to carry out inherent Federal functions?
The funds for BIA to carry out inherent Federal functions are the funds to support functions that may not legally be delegated to an Indian Tribe if all Tribes were to assume responsibilities for all BIA programs that the Act permits.
§ 1000.690
How does BIA determine the funding amount to carry out inherent Federal functions?
(a) Between October 1st and December 31st of each fiscal year, each regional and central office shall develop a document that contains its inherent Federal function information and cost calculation for that office based either on an enacted budget or Continuing Resolution budgetary guidance, and promptly distribute that document to each Tribe/Consortium served by that office.
(b) The Secretary shall amend the document throughout the year if programs are added or changed in ways that affect the inherent Federal functions directly associated with a PSFA transferred, or proposed to be transferred, into the funding agreement of the Tribe/Consortium, and distribute that revised document to any Tribe/Consortium served by that office and seeking to transfer a PSFA into a funding agreement under the Act.
(c) Once final budget amounts are known and suballocated, the Secretary will provide an updated document within 90 days to each Tribe/Consortium.
(d) Inherent Federal function information must clearly identify the legal authority that specifically precludes delegation to a Tribe/Consortium.
(e) Cost calculations must be limited to the minimum amount of funds necessary to carry out specific inherent Federal functions necessary for that office to administer PSFAs transferred to the funding agreement.
(f) The development of the document in paragraph (a) of this section must be based on the following principles:
(1) Uniformity and consistency in the identification of inherent Federal functions and in the calculation of their associated costs;
(2) The determination of inherent Federal functions in each office is based only on those inherent Federal functions actually being performed at that office; and
(3) The Secretary shall consult with Tribes/Consortium on inherent Federal function determinations and associated cost calculations at various forums, including the Tribal Interior Budget Council (TIBC).
(g) In negotiating the amount of funds due a Tribe/Consortium in a funding agreement, the Secretary may withhold from transfer to the funding agreement only those funds to carry out inherent Federal functions associated with the PSFAs assumed in the funding agreement, unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the Tribe/Consortium in the funding agreement.
(h) Upon the request of a Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must promptly provide a specific description of each inherent Federal function directly associated with a PSFA transferred, or proposed to be transferred, into the funding agreement of the Tribe/Consortium, along with the detailed basis for the Secretary's associated cost calculation.
§ 1000.695
Is the amount of funds withheld by the Secretary to cover the cost of inherent Federal functions subject to negotiation?
Yes, the Secretary's calculation of such costs is an appropriate subject during the negotiation of a funding agreement because it affects the amount of funds available for transfer to the funding agreement. If the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary are unable to agree on the amount of funds to be withheld by the Secretary to cover the Secretary's expense of carrying out inherent Federal functions directly associated with the PSFAs assumed in the funding agreement, the Tribe/Consortium may exercise any of its options under 25 U.S.C. 5366(c), including the final offer process in subpart I of this part.
§ 1000.700
May a Tribe/Consortium continue to negotiate a funding agreement pending an appeal of funding amounts associated with inherent Federal functions?
Yes, pending appeal of funding amounts associated with inherent Federal functions, any Tribe/Consortium may continue to negotiate a funding agreement using the information under § 1000.690 that is being appealed. This information will be subject to later adjustment based on the final determination of a Tribe's/Consortium's appeal.
§ 1000.705
What is a Tribal share?
A Tribal share is the portion of all funds and resources determined for a particular Tribe (or Tribes within a Consortium) that support any program within BIA, BIE, BTFA, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs and are not required by the Secretary for the performance of an inherent Federal function as described in §§ 1000.685 through 1000.695.
§ 1000.710
How does BIA determine a Tribe's/Consortium's share of funds to be included in a funding agreement?
There are typically two methods for determining the amount of funds to be included in the funding agreement:
(a)
Formula-driven.
For formula-driven programs, a Tribe's/Consortium's amount is determined by first identifying the funds for BIA to carry out inherent Federal functions and second, by applying the distribution formula to the remaining eligible funding for each program involved.
(1) Distribution formulas must be reasonably related to the function or service performed by an office, and must be consistently applied to all Tribes within each regional and agency office.
(2) The process in paragraph (a) of this section for calculating a Tribe's funding under self-governance must be consistent with the process used for calculating funds available to non-self-governance Tribes.
(b)
Tribal-specific.
For programs whose funds are not distributed on a formula basis as described in paragraph (a) of this section, a Tribe's funding amount will be determined on a Tribe-by-Tribe basis and may differ between Tribes. Examples of these funds may include special project funding, awarded competitive grants, earmarked funding, and construction or other one-time or non-recurring funding for which a Tribe is eligible.
§ 1000.715
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate a Tribal share for programs outside its region/agency?
Yes, where BIA services for a particular Tribe/Consortium are provided from a location outside its immediate agency or region, the Tribe may negotiate its share from the BIA location where the service is actually provided.
§ 1000.720
May a Tribe/Consortium obtain discretionary or competitive funding that is distributed on a discretionary or competitive basis?
Funds provided for Indian services/programs that have not been mandated by Congress to be distributed on a competitive/discretionary basis may be distributed to a Tribe/Consortium under a formula-driven method. In order to receive such funds, a Tribe/Consortium must be eligible and qualified to receive such funds. A Tribe/Consortium that receives such funds under a formula-driven methodology would no longer be eligible to compete for these funds.
§ 1000.725
Are all funds identified as Tribal shares always paid to the Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
No, at the discretion of the Tribe/Consortium, Tribal shares may be left, in whole or in part, with BIA for certain programs. This is referred to as a “retained Tribal share.”
§ 1000.730
How are savings that result from downsizing allocated?
Funds that are saved as a result of downsizing in BIA are allocated to Tribes/Consortium in the same manner as Tribal shares as provided for in § 1000.710.
§ 1000.735
Do Tribes/Consortium need Secretarial approval to reallocate funds between programs that the Tribe/Consortium administers under the funding agreement?
No, except with respect to programs described in 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) or (c) or as otherwise required by law, the Secretary does not have to approve the reallocation of funds between programs that a Tribe/Consortium administers under a funding agreement. However, reallocation of funds for construction project(s) included in a funding agreement must be done in accordance with subpart K of this part.
§ 1000.740
Can funding amounts negotiated in a funding agreement be adjusted during the year it is in effect?
Yes, funding amounts negotiated in a funding agreement may be adjusted under the following circumstances:
(a)
Congressional action.
(1) Increases/decreases as a result of Congressional appropriations and/or a directive in the statement of managers accompanying a conference report on an appropriations bill or continuing resolution.
(2) General decreases due to Congressional action must be applied consistently to BIA, self-governance Tribes/Consortium, and Tribes/Consortium not participating in self-governance.
(3) General increases due to Congressional appropriations must be applied consistently, except where used to achieve equitable distribution among regions and Tribes.
(4) A Tribe/Consortium will be notified of any decrease and be provided an opportunity to reconcile.
(b)
Mistakes.
If the Tribe/Consortium or the Secretary can identify and document substantive errors in calculations, the parties will renegotiate the amounts and make every effort to correct such errors.
(c)
Mutual Agreement.
Both the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary may agree to renegotiate amounts at any time.

# Establishing Self-Governance Stable Base Budgets
§ 1000.745
What are self-governance stable base budgets?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium self-governance stable base budget is the amount of recurring funding to be transferred to the Tribe/Consortium, for a period specified in the funding agreement. This amount must be adjusted to reflect subsequent annual changes in Congressional appropriations. It includes amounts that are eligible to be base transferred or have been base transferred from BIA budget accounts to self-governance budget accounts. As allowed by Congress, self-governance stable base budgets are derived from:
(1) A Tribe's/Consortium's Public Law 93-638 contract amounts;
(2) Negotiated agency, regional, and central office amounts;
(3) Other recurring funding;
(4) Special Projects, if applicable;
(5) Programmatic shortfall;
(6) Tribal priority allocation increases and decreases;
(7) Pay costs and retirement cost adjustments; and
(8) Any other inflationary cost adjustments.
(b) Self-governance stable base budgets must not include any non-recurring program funds, construction and wildland firefighting accounts, Congressional earmarks, or other funds specifically excluded by Congress. These funds are negotiated annually and may be included in the funding agreement but must not be included in the self-governance stable base budget.
(c) Self-governance stable base budgets may not include other recurring type programs that are currently in Tribal priority allocations (TPA) such as general assistance, housing improvement program (HIP), road maintenance and contract support. Should these later four programs ever become base transferred to Tribes, then they may be included in a self-governance Tribe's stable base budget.
(d) A funding agreement shall not specify the funding associated with a program described in 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) or (c) without the Secretary's agreement.
§ 1000.750
Once a Tribe/Consortium establishes a stable base budget, are funding amounts renegotiated each year?
No, unless otherwise requested by the Tribe/Consortium, these amounts are not renegotiated each year. If a Tribe/Consortium renegotiates funding levels:
(a) It must negotiate all funding levels in the funding agreement using the process for determining funds for BIA to carry out inherent Federal functions on the same basis as other Tribes; and
(b) It is eligible for funding amounts of new programs or available programs not previously included in the funding agreement on the same basis as other Tribes.
§ 1000.755
How are self-governance stable base budgets established?
At the request of the Tribe/Consortium, a self-governance stable base budget identifying each Tribe's funding amount is included in BIA's budget justification for the following year, subject to Congressional appropriation.
§ 1000.760
How are self-governance stable base budgets adjusted?
Self-governance stable base budgets must be adjusted as follows:
(a)
Congressional action.
(1) Increases/decreases as a result of Congressional appropriations and/or a directive in the statement of managers accompanying a conference report on an appropriations bill or continuing resolution.
(2) General decreases due to Congressional action must be applied consistently to BIA, self-governance Tribes/Consortium, and Tribes/Consortium not participating in self-governance.
(3) General increases due to Congressional appropriations must be applied consistently, except where used to achieve equitable distribution among regions and Tribes.
(4) A Tribe/Consortium will be notified of any decrease and be provided an opportunity to reconcile.
(b)
Mistakes.
If the Tribe/Consortium or the Secretary can identify and document substantive errors in calculations, the parties will renegotiate such amounts and make every effort to correct the errors.
(c)
Mutual agreement.
Both the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary may agree to renegotiate amounts at any time.

# Subpart G—Funding Agreements for Non-BIA Programs
§ 1000.801
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes program eligibility, funding, terms, and conditions of funding agreements for non-BIA programs.
§ 1000.805
What is a funding agreement for a non-BIA program?
Funding agreements for non-BIA programs are legally binding and mutually enforceable agreements between a bureau and a Tribe/Consortium participating in the self-governance program that contain:
(a) A description of that portion or portions of a bureau program that are to be performed by the Tribe/Consortium; and
(b) Associated funding, terms and conditions under which the Tribe/Consortium will assume a program, or portion of a program.
§ 1000.810
What non-BIA programs are eligible for inclusion in a funding agreement?
Programs authorized by sections 403(b)(2) and 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) and 5363(c)), as amended, are eligible for inclusion in a funding agreement. The Secretary will publish annually a list of these programs in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5372(c)(3) and (4).
§ 1000.815
Are there non-BIA programs for which the Secretary must negotiate for inclusion in a funding agreement subject to such terms as the parties may negotiate?
Yes, those programs, or portions thereof, that are eligible for inclusion in funding agreements under section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2).
§ 1000.820
What programs are included under section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2))?
Those non-BIA programs, or portions thereof, that are eligible for inclusion in funding agreements under the Act, as amended.
§ 1000.825
What programs are included under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c))?
Non-BIA programs within the Department of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance to participating Tribes, individually or as members of a Consortium, are eligible for inclusion in funding agreements under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c)).
§ 1000.830
What does “special geographic, historical or cultural” mean?
(a)
Geographic
generally refers to all lands presently “on or near” an Indian reservation, and all other lands within “Indian country,” as defined by 18 U.S.C. 1151. In addition, “geographic” includes:
(1) Lands of former reservations;
(2) Lands on or near those conveyed or to be conveyed under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA);
(3) Judicially established aboriginal lands of a Tribe or a Consortium member or as verified by the Secretary; and
(4) Lands and waters pertaining to Indian rights in natural resources, hunting, fishing, gathering, and subsistence activities, provided or protected by treaty or other applicable law.
(b)
Historical
generally refers to programs or lands having a particular history that is relevant to the Tribe. For example, particular trails, forts, significant sites, or educational activities that relate to the history of a particular Tribe.
(c)
Cultural
refers to programs, sites, or activities as defined by individual Tribal traditions and may include, for example:
(1) Sacred and medicinal sites;
(2) Gathering of medicines or materials such as grasses for basket weaving; or
(3) Other traditional activities, including, but not limited to, subsistence hunting, fishing, and gathering.
(d) In determining whether a Tribe/Consortium has demonstrated a non-BIA program's special geographic, historical or cultural significance to such Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary shall interpret each Federal law and regulation in a manner that will facilitate the inclusion of a program in, and the implementation of, a funding agreement.
§ 1000.835
Under section 403(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2)), when must programs be awarded non-competitively?
Non-BIA programs eligible for inclusion in funding agreements under the Act, as amended, must be awarded non-competitively.
§ 1000.840
May a non-BIA bureau include in a funding agreement, on a non-competitive basis, programs of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance?
Yes, if there is a special geographic, historical, or cultural significance to the program or activity administered by the bureau, the law affords the non-BIA bureau the discretion to include the programs or activities in a funding agreement on a non-competitive basis.
§ 1000.845
Are there any non-BIA programs that may not be included in a funding agreement?
(a) Inherently Federal functions in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5361(6) and 5363(k).
(b) Programs where the statute establishing the existing program does not authorize the type of participation sought by the Tribe/Consortium. In determining whether a statute “does not authorize the type of participation sought by” the Tribe/Consortium within the meaning of 25 U.S.C. 5363(k), the Department shall take the following factors into consideration:
(1) Tribes need not be identified in an authorizing statute in order for a program, or element of a program, to be included in a funding agreement;
(2) The lack of specificity in a statute by itself does not create a blanket exclusion from inclusion of a program, or element of a program, in a funding agreement; and
(3) It is not an adequate ground to refuse to compact specific functions that are not inherently Federal in character, simply because an organic statute vests an agency with generic management authority over a broad category of land.
(c) The Secretary shall interpret each Federal law and regulation in a manner that facilitates:
(1) The inclusion of programs in funding agreements; and
(2) The implementation of funding agreements.
§ 1000.850
Does a Tribe/Consortium need to be identified in an authorizing statute in order for a program or element of a program to be included in a non-BIA funding agreement?
No, the Act, as amended, favors the inclusion of a wide range of programs.
§ 1000.855
Will Tribes/Consortia participate in the Secretary's determination of what is to be included on the annual list of available programs?
Yes, the Secretary must consult each year with Tribes/Consortia participating in self-governance programs regarding which bureau programs are eligible for inclusion in funding agreements. If a Tribe/Consortium makes a written request for a program to be included on the annual list for non-BIA reporting found in subpart P of this part (§§ 1000.2010(c) and 1000.2012), the Secretary must provide a written rationale if the Secretary does not include such program.
§ 1000.860
How will the Secretary consult with Tribes/Consortia in developing the list of available programs?
(a) The Secretary shall consult with Tribes/Consortia in developing the list of available programs in accordance with subpart T of this part.
(b) In addition to the requirements in subpart T of this part:
(1) The Secretary must publish the previous year's list of available programs in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5372(c)(3) in the
Federal Register
prior to October 1 of each year. The list must include:
(i) All of the Secretary's proposed additions and revisions for the coming year with an explanation; and
(ii) Programmatic targets detailed in § 1000.2010(e) and an initial point of contact for each bureau.
(2) If the Secretary does not plan to include a Tribal suggestion or revision in the final published list, the Secretary must provide to such Tribe/Consortium a written explanation of reasons consistent with § 1000.855.
§ 1000.865
What else is on the list in addition to eligible programs?
The list will also include programmatic targets and an initial point of contact for each bureau. Programmatic targets will be established as part of the consultation process described in § 1000.860.
§ 1000.870
May a bureau negotiate with a Tribe/Consortium for programs not specifically included on the annual list pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5372(c)?
Yes, the annual list will specify that bureaus will negotiate for other programs eligible under 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) when requested by a Tribe/Consortium. Bureaus may negotiate for 25 U.S.C. 5363(c) programs whether or not they are on the list.
§ 1000.875
How will a bureau negotiate a funding agreement for a program of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance to more than one Tribe/Consortium?
(a) If a program is of special geographic, historical, or cultural significance to more than one Tribe/Consortium, the bureau may allocate the program among the several Tribes/Consortia through separate funding agreements or select one Tribe/Consortium with whom to negotiate a funding agreement.
(b) In making a determination under paragraph (a) of this section, the bureau will, in consultation with the affected Tribes/Consortia, consider:
(1) The special significance of each Tribe's or Consortium member's interest; and
(2) The statutory objectives being served by the bureau program.
(c) The bureau's decision will be final for the Department.
§ 1000.880
When will this determination be made?
It will occur during the pre-negotiation process, subject to the timeframes in subpart H of this part (
see e.g.,
§§ 1000.1035 and 1000.1050).
§ 1000.885
What funds are included in a non-BIA funding agreement?
Non-BIA bureaus determine the amount of funding to be included in the funding agreement using the following principles:
(a)
403(b)(2) Programs (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2)).
In general, funds are provided in a funding agreement to the Tribe/Consortium in an amount equal to the amount that it is eligible to receive under section 106 of the Act, as amended.
(b)
403(c) Programs (25 U.S.C. 5363(c)).
(1) The funding agreement will include:
(i) Amounts equal to the direct program or project costs the bureau would have incurred were it to operate that program at the level of work mutually agreed to in the funding agreement; and:
(ii) Allowable indirect costs; and
(iii) Such amounts as the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary may negotiate for pre-award, start-up and direct contract support costs.
(2) A bureau is not required to include management and support funds from the regional or central office level in a funding agreement, unless:
(i) The Tribe/Consortium will perform work previously performed at the regional or central office level;
(ii) The work is not compensated in the indirect cost rate; and
(iii) Including management and support costs in the funding agreement does not result in the Tribe/Consortium being paid twice for the same work when negotiated indirect cost rate is applied.
§ 1000.890
How are indirect cost rates determined?
The Department's Interior Business Center (IBC) or other cognizant Federal agency and the Tribe/Consortium negotiate indirect cost rates. These rates are based on the applicable provisions of subpart E of 2 CFR part 200, or other applicable OMB cost circular and the provisions of title I of the Act, as amended. These rates are used generally by all Federal agencies for contracts and grants with the Tribe/Consortium, including self-governance agreements.
§ 1000.895
How does the Secretary determine the amount of indirect costs for a non-BIA funding agreement?
The Secretary determines the amount of indirect costs for a non-BIA funding agreement by:
(a) Applying the negotiated indirect cost rate to the appropriate direct cost base; or
(b) At the Tribe's/Consortium's option, negotiating a lump sum amount for indirect costs.
§ 1000.900
May the bureaus negotiate terms to be included in a funding agreement for non-BIA programs?
Yes, as provided for by 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) and 5363(c) and as necessary to meet program mandates while consistent with this subpart, provided, however, that a bureau may not require in a funding agreement that a Tribe/Consortium retain, hire or assign a Federal employee in a contracted program, nor may a bureau condition its approval of a funding agreement upon a requirement that a Tribe/Consortium retain, hire or assign a Federal employee in a contracted program.
§ 1000.905
Can a Tribe/Consortium reallocate, consolidate, and redesign funds for a non-BIA program?
Yes, 25 U.S.C. 5365(d)(2) permits such reallocation, consolidation, and redesign upon joint agreement of the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.910
Do Tribes/Consortia need Secretarial approval to reallocate funds between title I eligible programs that the Tribe/Consortium administers under a non-BIA funding agreement?
No, unless otherwise required by law, the Secretary does not have to approve the reallocation of funds with the exception of construction projects.
§ 1000.915
Can a Tribe/Consortium negotiate a funding agreement with a non-BIA bureau for which the performance period exceeds one year?
Yes, subject to the terms of the funding agreement, a Tribe/Consortium and a non-BIA bureau may agree to provide for the performance under the funding agreement to extend beyond the fiscal year. However, the Secretary may not obligate funds in excess and advance of available appropriations.
§ 1000.920
Can the terms and conditions in a non-BIA funding agreement be amended during the year it is in effect?
Yes, terms and conditions in a non-BIA funding agreement may be amended during the year it is in effect as agreed to by both the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary.
§ 1000.925
What happens if a funding agreement expires before the effective date of the successor Funding Agreement?
If the effective date of a successor funding agreement is not on or before the expiration of the current funding agreement, subject to terms mutually agreed upon by the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary at the time the current funding agreement was negotiated or in a subsequent amendment, the Tribe/Consortium may continue to carry out the program authorized under the funding agreement to the extent resources permit. During this extension period, the current funding agreement shall remain in effect, including coverage of the Tribe/Consortium under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) 28 U.S.C. 2671-2680 (1994); and the Tribe/Consortium may use any funds remaining under the funding agreement, savings from other programs or Tribal funds to carry out the program. Nothing in this section authorizes a funding agreement to be continued beyond the completion of the program authorized under the funding agreement or the amended funding agreement. This section also does not entitle a Tribe/Consortium to receive, nor does it prevent a Tribe/Consortium from receiving, additional funding under any successor funding agreement. The successor funding agreement must provide funding to the Tribe/Consortium at a level necessary for the Tribe/Consortium to perform the PSFA, or portions thereof, for the full period they were or will be performed.

# Subpart H—Negotiation Process
§ 1000.1001
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart provides the process and timelines for negotiating a self-governance compact with the Secretary and a funding agreement with any bureau.
§ 1000.1005
What are the phases of the negotiation process?
There are two phases of the negotiation process:
(a) The information phase; and
(b) The negotiation phase.
§ 1000.1010
Who may initiate the information phase?
Any Tribe/Consortium that has been selected to participate in self-governance may initiate the information phase.
§ 1000.1015
Is it mandatory to go through the information phase before initiating the negotiation phase?
No, a Tribe/Consortium may go directly to the negotiation phase.
§ 1000.1020
How does a Tribe/Consortium initiate the information phase?
A Tribe/Consortium initiates the information phase by sending to the Secretary a written request clearly identified as a “Request to Initiate the Information Phase”. This request notifies the Secretary of the Tribe's/Consortium's interest in negotiating for a program(s) and request for information about the program(s). This request must be sent:
(a) If in electronic form (PDF), which is the preferred method, to
SGINFORMATION-REQUEST@bia.gov
; or
(b) If in paper form by United States Mail or express courier to Director, Office of Self-Governance, at the headquarters address indicated on the official Department, OSG website.
§ 1000.1025
What information is a Tribe/Consortium encouraged to include in a Request to Initiate the Information Phase?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium is encouraged to include the following in a Request to Initiate the Information Phase:
(1) As specifically as possible, the program(s) for which the Tribe/Consortium is interested in negotiating under this subpart;
(2) The bureau, service, office, or agency (bureau) that administers the program(s) of interest;
(3) The scope(s) of program activity in which the Tribe/Consortium is interested;
(4) If applicable, a brief explanation of the cultural, historical, or geographic significance to the Tribe/Consortium of the program(s);
(5) A request for budget, staffing, and other locations of the offices providing administrative support;
(6) Other information that the Tribe/Consortium may choose to submit for the Secretary's consideration; and
(7) The Tribe's/Consortium's designated contact.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium may choose to request information and technical assistance in a Request to Initiate the Information Phase notice including, but not limited to:
(1) Information that will assist the Tribe/Consortium in initiating and/or implementing the negotiation process;
(2) Information regarding grants or funds within the bureau, or other known possible sources of funding, that may be available to the Tribe/Consortium for planning and negotiating, or renegotiating a compact and/or funding agreement;
(3) Information on any funds available within the bureau, or from other sources of funding, that the Tribe/Consortium may include in the funding agreement for performing the program(s);
(4) Information contained in the previous year, present year, and, if available, next year's budget proposed by the President at the national program level and the regional/local level;
(5) Information used to support budget allocations for the programs identified (
e.g.,
full time equivalents and other relevant factors);
(6) Information used to operate and/or evaluate a program, such as statutory and regulatory requirements and program standards;
(7) If applicable, information regarding how a program is administered by more than one bureau, including a point of contact for information for the other bureau(s); and
(8) Technical assistance from the bureau in preparing documents or materials that may be required for the Tribe/Consortium in the negotiation process.
§ 1000.1030
When should a Tribe/Consortium submit a Request to Initiate the Information Phase to the Secretary?
A Tribe/Consortium may submit a Request to Initiate the Information Phase to the Secretary at any time.
§ 1000.1035
What steps does the bureau take after a Request to Initiate the Information Phase is submitted by a Tribe/Consortium?
(a) Within 15 days of receipt of a Tribe's/Consortium's Request to Initiate the Information Phase, the bureau will respond in writing to the Tribe's/Consortium's identified point of contact and identify the person designated as the bureau's representative responsible for providing information under this subpart. The bureau representative shall in good faith fulfill the following responsibilities:
(1) In accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, provide the Tribe/Consortium with all program budget and program information from each organizational level of the bureau(s); and
(2) Notify any other bureau as required under this subpart.
(b) Within 30 calendar days of receipt of the Tribe's/Consortium's request, the bureau representative must provide to the Tribe/Consortium the information responsive to the Tribe's/Consortium's Request to Initiate the Information Phase, if otherwise consistent with the bureau's budgetary process and subject to other applicable law. Responsive information includes, at a minimum:
(1) Information regarding program, budget, staffing, and locations of the offices administering the program identified by the Tribe/Consortium and related administrative support programs; and
(2) Such other information requested by the Tribe/Consortium in its request.
(c) Upon request by a Tribe/Consortium, the bureau will provide technical assistance to the Tribe/Consortium and be available to meet with Tribal/Consortium representatives to explain the information provided and discuss other questions from the Tribe/Consortium;
(d) The bureau shall issue a written explanation if it determines it cannot provide information required under paragraph (b) of this section within the 30-day period. If a bureau makes such a determination, then the bureau must provide any other information that is reasonably related to the Tribe/Consortium's request and the date when other information, not provided within 30
days but available for disclosure to the Tribe/Consortium, can be provided;
(e) The Secretary shall provide information under this section in a manner that facilitates the inclusion of programs in funding agreements and the implementation of funding agreements (25 U.S.C. 5369);
(f) If a bureau fails to timely provide information under this subpart, the Tribe/Consortium may:
(1) File a Freedom of Information Act request. These requests shall be considered for a fee waiver under the Freedom of Information Act; and/or
(2) Appeal in accordance with subpart R of this part.
§ 1000.1040
How does a Tribe/Consortium initiate the negotiation phase?
A Tribe/Consortium initiates the negotiation phase by sending to the Secretary a written request clearly identified as a Request to Initiate the Negotiation Phase. This request notifies the Secretary of the Tribe's/Consortium's interest in negotiating for a program(s). This request must be sent:
(a) If in electronic form (PDF), which is the preferred method, to
SGNEGOTIATION-REQUEST@bia.gov
; or
(b) If in paper form by United States Mail or express courier to the Director, Office of Self-Governance, at the headquarters address indicated on the official Department, OSG website.
§ 1000.1045
How and when does the Secretary respond to a request to negotiate a compact or BIA funding agreement?
Within 15 days of receiving a Request to Initiate the Negotiation Phase for a compact or BIA funding agreement, OSG will respond in writing to the Tribe's/Consortium's identified point of contact and identify the person designated as the lead Federal negotiator. OSG and the Tribe/Consortium will negotiate a compact or funding agreement in accordance with applicable provisions of this part.
§ 1000.1050
How and when does the Secretary respond to a request to negotiate a non-BIA funding agreement?
Within 15 days of receiving a Tribe's/Consortium's Request to Initiate the Negotiation Phase for a non-BIA funding agreement, the Department will take the steps in this section:
(a) If the program involves multiple bureaus, the Secretary will identify the lead Federal negotiator(s);
(b) If the program is authorized for negotiations by 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2), the bureau will identify the lead Federal negotiator(s).
(c) If the program may be authorized for negotiations by 25 U.S.C. 5363(c), the bureau will identify the lead Federal negotiator(s) and schedule a pre-negotiation discussion with the Tribe/Consortium as soon as possible. The purpose of the discussion is to assist the bureau in determining if the program is available for negotiation. If there is agreement that a program is eligible for inclusion in a funding agreement, the parties may jointly agree to waive this discussion.
(d) Within 10 days after convening a discussion under paragraph (c) of this section, or no later than 30 days of receipt by the Secretary of the Tribe's/Consortium's Request to Initiate the Negotiation Phase:
(1) If the program is available for inclusion in a funding agreement, the bureau will begin negotiating a non-BIA funding agreement in accordance with subpart G of this part; or
(2) If the program is unavailable for negotiation, the bureau will provide a written explanation of why the program is unavailable for inclusion in a funding agreement.
§ 1000.1055
What is the process for conducting the negotiation phase?
(a) Within 30 days of receiving a written Request to Initiate the Negotiation Phase, the bureau and the Tribe/Consortium will agree to a date to conduct an initial negotiation meeting. Subsequent meetings will be held with reasonable frequency at reasonable times.
(b) Tribe/Consortium and bureau lead negotiators must:
(1) Be authorized to negotiate on behalf of their government; and
(2) Involve all necessary persons in the negotiation process.
(c) Once negotiations have been completed, with the parties in agreement concerning all terms and conditions of a compact and/or funding agreement,
the parties will acknowledge in writing the date on which agreement was reached and:
(1) The Secretary and Tribe/Consortium will finalize the compact and/or funding agreement for submission to the Tribe/Consortium within 15 days or by a mutually agreed upon date; and
(2) Upon the Secretary's receipt of a compact or funding agreement signed by the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary will execute and return the funding agreement by a mutually agreed upon date not to exceed 45 days, and the compact by a mutually agreed upon date not to exceed 90 days.
§ 1000.1060
What issues must the bureau and the Tribe/Consortium address at negotiation meetings?
The negotiation meetings referred to in § 1000.1055 must address at a minimum the following:
(a) The specific Tribe/Consortium proposal(s) and intentions;
(b) Legal or program issues that the bureau or the Tribe/Consortium identify as concerns;
(c) Options for negotiating programs and related budget amounts, including mutually agreeable options for developing alternative formats for presenting budget information to the Tribe/Consortium;
(d) Dates for conducting and concluding negotiations;
(e) Protocols for conducting negotiations;
(f) Responsibility for preparation of a written summary of the discussions; and
(g) Who will prepare an initial draft of the compact or funding agreement, as applicable.
§ 1000.1065
What happens when a compact or funding agreement is signed?
(a) After all necessary parties have signed the compact or funding agreement, a copy is sent to the Tribe/Consortium.
(b) No later than 90 days before the proposed effective date of an executed funding agreement, the Secretary shall forward a copy of the funding agreement to each Indian Tribe/Consortium served by the local BIA Agency office that serves any Tribe/Consortium that is a party to the funding agreement. The Secretary's obligation under 25 U.S.C. 5363(f) shall not impact the funding agreement's effective date as specified under § 1000.1075.
§ 1000.1070
What happens if the Tribe/Consortium and bureau negotiators fail to reach an agreement on a compact or funding agreement?
If the bureau and Tribe/Consortium are unable to agree, in whole or in part, on the terms of a compact or funding agreement (including funding levels) then the final offer process in subpart I of this part shall apply.
§ 1000.1075
When does the funding agreement become effective?
A funding agreement shall become effective on the date it is fully executed or as identified by its terms.
§ 1000.1080
What is a subsequent funding agreement?
A subsequent funding agreement is negotiated after a Tribe's/Consortium's existing funding agreement. The parties to the funding agreement should generally use the terms of the existing funding agreement to expedite and simplify the exchange of information and the negotiation process.
§ 1000.1085
How is the negotiation of a subsequent funding agreement initiated?
Although a written request is desirable to document the precise request and date of the request, a written request is not mandatory. If either party anticipates a significant change in an existing program in the funding agreement, it should notify the other party of the change at the earliest possible date so that the other party may plan accordingly.
§ 1000.1090
What is the process for negotiating a subsequent funding agreement?
The Tribe/Consortium and the bureau shall use the procedures in §§ 1000.1005 through 1000.1070.

# Subpart I—Final Offer
§ 1000.1101
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart explains the final offer process provided by the Act for resolving, within a specific timeframe, disputes that may develop in negotiation of compacts, funding agreements, or amendments thereof.
§ 1000.1105
When should a final offer be submitted?
The Tribe/Consortium may submit a final offer when it has determined that the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary are unable to agree, in whole or in part, on the terms of a compact, funding agreement, or amendment (including funding levels).
§ 1000.1110
How does a Tribe/Consortium submit a final offer?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium must submit its written final offer for a compact or funding agreement, or amendment thereof:
(1) If in electronic form (PDF), which is the preferred method, to
SGFINAL-OFFER@bia.gov
for any DOI program; or
(2) If in paper form by United States Mail or express courier to the Director, Office of Self-Governance, at the headquarters address indicated in the official Department, OSG website.
(b) The document should be separate from the compact, funding agreement or amendment and clearly identified as a “Final Offer.”
§ 1000.1115
What does a final offer contain?
A final offer must contain a description of the disagreement between the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium, the Tribe's/Consortium's final proposal to resolve the disagreement, including any draft proposed terms to be included in a compact, funding agreement, or amendment, and the name and contact information for the person authorized to act on behalf of the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.1120
When does the 60-day review period begin?
The 60-day review period begins on the date the final offer is received at the office's mailing or email address identified in this subpart. Demonstration of receipt includes a postal return receipt, express delivery service receipt, or date stamp; all email submissions are presumed received by the Secretary no later than the next business day following transmission from the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.1125
How does the Department acknowledge receipt of final offer?
(a) Within 10 days of receipt by the officials designated by the Secretary in § 1000.1110, the Department will send the Tribe/Consortium a written acknowledgement of the final offer.
(b) The acknowledgement reference in paragraph (a) of this section shall include:
(1) A statement acknowledging receipt of the final offer;
(2) The date the final offer was received and the last day of the applicable statutory review period;
(3) If applicable, the Secretary may request additional information. A request for more information has no effect on deadlines for a response under this subpart; and
(4) A statement notifying the Tribe/Consortium that technical assistance is available upon request to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
§ 1000.1130
May the Secretary request and obtain an extension of time of the 60-day review period?
(a) Yes, the Secretary may request an extension of time before the expiration of the 60-day review period. The Tribe/Consortium may either grant or deny the Secretary's request for an extension. To be effective, any grant of extension of time must be in writing and be signed by the person authorized by the Tribe/Consortium to grant the extension before the expiration of the 60-day review period.
(b) The deadline described in paragraph (a) of this section may be extended for any additional length of time as agreed upon in writing by the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary, and
(c) The 60-day period may be extended up to 30 days for circumstances beyond the control of the Secretary,
upon written request from the Secretary to the Tribe/Consortium.
(d) A Tribe/Consortium must respond within 10 days of receiving the Secretary's request for an extension under paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 1000.1135
What happens if the Secretary takes no action within the 60-day period (or any extensions thereof)?
The final offer is:
(a) Accepted automatically by operation of law for a compact or funding agreement provision except as to its application to a program described under 25 U.S.C. 5363(c); or
(b) Rejected automatically by operation of law with respect to any program described under 25 U.S.C. 5363(c).
§ 1000.1140
Once the Tribe/Consortium's final offer has been accepted or accepted by operation of law, what is the next step?
After the Tribe/Consortium's final offer is accepted or accepted by the operations of law, within 10 days the parties will amend the compact or funding agreement to incorporate the accepted terms of the final offer.
§ 1000.1145
On what basis may the Secretary reject a final offer?
The Secretary may reject a final offer for one of the following reasons:
(a) The amount of funds proposed in the final offer exceeds the applicable funding level to which the Tribe/Consortium is entitled under the Act;
(b) The program that is the subject of the final offer is an inherent Federal function that cannot legally be delegated to a Tribe/Consortium or is subject to discretion of the Secretary under the Act;
(c) The Tribe/Consortium cannot carry out the program in a manner that would not result in significant danger or risk to the public health or safety, to natural resources, or to trust resources;
(d) The Tribe/Consortium is not eligible to participate in self-governance under 25 U.S.C. 5362;
(e) The funding agreement would violate a Federal statute or regulation; or
(f) With respect to a program or portion of a program included in a final offer pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2), the program or the portion of the program is not otherwise available under 25 U.S.C. 5321(a)(1)(E).
§ 1000.1150
How does the Secretary reject a final offer?
The Secretary rejects a final offer by providing written notice to the Tribe/Consortium based on the criteria in § 1000.1145 not more than 60 days after the receipt of a final offer, or a later date in accordance with § 1000.1130.
§ 1000.1155
What is the “significant danger” or “risk” to the public health or safety, to natural resources, or to trust resources?
A significant danger or risk is determined on a case-by-case basis in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5366.
§ 1000.1160
Is technical assistance available to a Tribe/Consortium to overcome the objections stated in the Secretary's rejection of a final offer?
Yes, the Secretary must provide technical assistance to overcome the objection stated in the notification of the rejection of the final offer.
§ 1000.1165
If the Secretary rejects all or part of a final offer, is the Tribe/Consortium entitled to an appeal?
Yes, the Tribe/Consortium is entitled to appeal the decision of the Secretary, with an agency hearing on the record, and the right to engage in full discovery relevant to any issue raised in the matter. The procedures for appeals are found in subpart R of this part. Alternatively, at its option, the Tribe/Consortium has the right to initiate an action challenging the Secretary's decision in U.S. District Court under 25 U.S.C. 5331(a).
§ 1000.1170
Do those portions of the compact, funding agreement, or amendment not in dispute go into effect?
Yes, subject to 25 U.S.C. 5366(c)(6)(A)(iv).
§ 1000.1175
Does appealing the final offer decision prevent the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium from entering into any accepted compact, funding agreement or amendment provisions that are not in dispute?
No, appealing the decision does not prevent the Secretary and Tribe/Consortium from entering into any accepted, severable provisions of a compact, funding agreement, or amendment that are not in dispute.
§ 1000.1180
What is the burden of proof in an appeal of a rejection of a final offer?
With respect to any appeal, hearing, or civil action, brought under this subpart, the Secretary shall have the burden of clearly demonstrating the validity of the grounds for rejecting the final offer.

# Subpart J—Waiver of Regulations
§ 1000.1201
What regulations apply to Tribes/Consortia?
All regulations that govern the operation of programs included in a funding agreement apply unless waived under this subpart. To the maximum extent practical, the parties should identify these regulations in the funding agreement.
§ 1000.1205
Can the Secretary grant a waiver of regulations to a Tribe/Consortium?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium may ask the Secretary to grant a waiver of some or all Department regulation(s) applicable to a program, in whole or in part, operated by a Tribe/Consortium under a compact or funding agreement.
§ 1000.1210
When can a Tribe/Consortium request a waiver of a regulation?
A Tribe/Consortium may request a waiver of a regulation:
(a) As part of the negotiation process;
(b) At any time after a funding agreement has been executed; or
(c) Following a denial decision, provided that the Tribe/Consortium acknowledges that the submission commences a new 120-day review period under § 1000.1240.
§ 1000.1215
How does a Tribe/Consortium obtain a waiver?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium must submit its written waiver request for any DOI compact, funding agreement, or amendment thereof:
(1) In electronic form (PDF), which is the preferred method, by email to
SGWAIVER-REQUEST@bia.gov;
or
(2) If in paper form by United States Mail or express courier to Director, Office of Self-Governance at the headquarters address indicated on the official Department OSG website.
(b) The waiver request, including one made under § 1000.1210(a), must be a separate document from the compact, funding agreement, or amendment and clearly identified as a “Waiver Request.”
§ 1000.1220
How does a Tribe/Consortium operating a Public Law 102-477 Plan obtain a waiver?
(a) For a waiver request involving any program that has been integrated under an approved plan authorized by Public Law 102-477, as amended, or proposed to be integrated under a Public Law 102-477 plan, the Tribe must submit the request to the BIA—Division of Workforce Development.
(b) The provisions of 25 U.S.C. 3406 (b),
et seq.,
governing submission, review, decision, dispute resolution, and appeal apply to a waiver request submitted under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If a waiver of regulations had been previously obtained for a program administered by the Department that is later integrated into a plan authorized by Public Law 102-477, such waiver of regulations will continue to be in effect.
§ 1000.1225
May a Tribe/Consortium request an optional meeting or other informal discussion to discuss a waiver request?
(a) Yes, a Tribe/Consortium may request an optional meeting or other informal discussion with the appropriate bureau official(s).
(b) To provide reasonable time for consideration, the Tribe/Consortium may request a meeting or other informal discussion to be held with the appropriate bureau official(s) no less than
30 days before the end of the 120-day period, unless the parties agree on another date.
(c) For all purposes relating to these meeting or informal discussion procedures, the parties are the designated representatives of the Tribe/Consortium and the appropriate bureau official(s) from whom the waiver is requested.
§ 1000.1230
Is a bureau required to provide technical assistance to a Tribe/Consortium concerning waivers?
Yes.
(a)
Prior to submission of a waiver request.
A Tribe/Consortium considering a waiver request under this part may request, and a bureau shall provide, technical assistance to assist the Tribe/Consortium to prepare and submit the waiver request.
(b)
After submission of a waiver request.
Not later than 60 days after receipt of a Tribe's/Consortium's waiver request, unless the parties agree on another date, a bureau shall, if applicable:
(1) Provide technical assistance to overcome any objection which the bureau might have to the request while a waiver request is under consideration; and/or
(2) Identify additional information that may assist the bureau in making a decision.
§ 1000.1235
How does the Secretary respond to a waiver request?
Within 10 business days of receipt, the officials designated by the Secretary in § 1000.1215 will email to the Tribe/Consortium a letter:
(a) Acknowledging receipt of the waiver request; and
(b) Identifying the date the waiver request was received and the last day of the applicable statutory review period.
§ 1000.1240
When must the Secretary make a decision on a waiver request?
(a) Not later than 120 days after receipt of a waiver request by the Secretary and the Secretary's designated officials in accordance with § 1000.1215.
(b) This 120-day period may be extended for any length of time, as agreed upon by both the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary.
§ 1000.1245
How does the Secretary make a decision on the waiver request?
(a) The Secretary must issue a written decision explaining the rationale for denying or approving the requested waiver.
(b) If the Secretary issues a written decision denying the requested waiver, it must describe the basis for the specific finding that the identified text in the regulation may not be waived because such a waiver is prohibited by Federal law.
(c) The decision is final for the Department.
§ 1000.1250
What happens if the Secretary neither approves nor denies a waiver request within the time specified in § 1000.1240?
If the Secretary fails to make a determination with respect to a waiver request within the period specified in § 1000.1240 (including any extension agreed to under that section), the waiver request is automatically, by operation of law,
(a) Deemed approved except for programs eligible under section 403(b)(2) or section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) or 5363(c)), as amended; or
(b) Deemed denied with respect to programs eligible under section 403(b)(2) or section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) or 5363(c)), as amended. Such deemed denial is a final decision for the Department.
§ 1000.1255
May a Tribe/Consortium appeal the Secretary's decision to deny its request for a waiver of a regulation?
Yes, the Tribe/Consortium may appeal the Secretary's decision consistent with applicable law, including 25 U.S.C. 5331. The burden of proof shall be as set forth in § 1000.2315.
§ 1000.1260
What is the term of a waiver?
Upon approval, a waiver is deemed approved until such time as rescinded by the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.1265
May a Tribe/Consortium withdraw a waiver request?
Yes. If a Tribe/Consortium chooses to withdraw a waiver request before the Secretary makes a decision, it must do so in writing prior to the end of the 120-day time frame.
§ 1000.1270
May a Tribe/Consortium have more than one waiver request pending before the Secretary at the same time?
Yes. A Tribe/Consortium may have more than one waiver request pending before the Secretary at the same time, provided that each waiver request affects a different regulatory provision.
§ 1000.1275
May a Tribe/Consortium continue to negotiate a funding agreement pending final decision on a waiver request?
Yes, pending final decision on a waiver request, any Tribe/Consortium may continue to negotiate and implement a funding agreement. The regulation will apply until it is waived. The funding agreement will be subject to later adjustment based on an affirmative final decision on the Tribe's/Consortium's waiver request.
§ 1000.1280
How is a waiver decision documented for the record?
The waiver approval is made part of the funding agreement by attaching a copy of it to the funding agreement and by mutually executing any necessary conforming amendments to the funding agreement. The waiver requests and bureau's decision document(s), pursuant to § 1000.1245, will be posted and archived on the OSG website or successor technology within 30 days of the decision. Such posting/archiving shall include deemed approved and deemed denied decisions under § 1000.1250. All decisions shall be made available on request, and a summary of decisions will be included in the Self Governance Annual Report to Congress.

# Subpart K—Construction

# Construction Definitions
§ 1000.1301
What key construction terms do I need to know?
Budget
means a statement of the funds required to complete the scope of work in a construction project. For cost reimbursement agreements, budgets may be stated using broad categories such as planning, design, construction, project administration, and contingency. For fixed price agreements, budgets may be stated as lump sums, unit cost pricing, or a combination thereof.
Construction management services
(CMS) means activities limited to administrative support services; coordination; and monitoring oversight of the planning, design, and construction process. CMS activities typically include:
(1) Coordination and information exchange between the Tribe/Consortium and the Federal Government;
(2) Preparation of a Tribe's/Consortium's project agreement; and
(3) A Tribe's/Consortium's subcontract scope of work identification and subcontract preparation, and competitive selection of construction contract subcontractors.
Construction phase
is the phase of a construction project during which the project is constructed, and includes labor, materials, equipment and services necessary to complete the work, in accordance with the construction project agreement.
Construction program
or
construction project
means a Tribal undertaking relating to the administration, planning, environmental determination, design, construction, repair, improvement, or expansion of roads, bridges, buildings, structures, systems, or other facilities for purposes of housing, law enforcement, detention, sanitation, water supply, education, administration, community, health, irrigation, agriculture, conservation, flood control, transportation, or port facilities, or for other Tribal purposes.
Construction project agreement
means a negotiated agreement between the Secretary and a Tribe/Consortium, that at a minimum:
(1) Establishes project phase start and completion dates, which may extend over a period of one or more years;
(2) Provides a general description of the project, including the scope of work, references to design criteria and standards by which it will be accomplished, and other terms and conditions;
(3) Identifies the responsibilities of the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary;
(4) Addresses how project-related environmental considerations will be addressed;
(5) Identifies the owner and operations and maintenance entity of the proposed work;
(6) Provides a budget;
(7) Provides a payment process;
(8) Establishes the duration of the agreement based on the time necessary to complete the specified scope of work, which may be one or more years; and
(9) Identifies the agreement of the Secretary and Tribe/Consortium over which entity will bear any additional costs necessary to meet changes in scope, or errors or omissions in design and construction.
Design phase
is the phase of a construction project during which project plans, specifications, and other documents are prepared that are used to construct the project. Site investigation, final site selection and environmental review and determination activities are completed in this phase if not conducted as part of the planning phase.
NEPA
means the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
).
NHPA
means the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
).
Planning phase
is the phase of a construction project agreement during which planning services are provided.
Planning services
may include performing a needs assessment, completing and/or verifying master plans, developing justification documents, conducting pre-design site investigations, developing budget cost estimates, conducting feasibility studies as needed, conducting environmental review activities and justifying the need for the project.
SHPO
means State Historic Preservation Officer.
Scope of work
or
specific scope of work
means a brief written description of the work to be accomplished under the construction project, sufficient to confirm that the project is consistent with the purpose for which the Secretary has allocated funds.
THPO
means Tribal Historic Preservation Officer.

# Purpose and Scope
§ 1000.1305
What construction projects and programs included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement are subject to this subpart?
(a) All construction programs and construction projects included in a funding agreement under title IV are subject to this subpart.
(b) The following programs and activities are not construction programs and activities for the purposes of this subpart:
(1) Activities limited to providing planning services, administrative support services, coordination, responsibility for the construction project, site-management and administration of the project, which may include cost management, project budgeting, project scheduling and procurement.
(2) The BIA Housing Improvement Program;
(3) The BIA Road Maintenance Program and other road maintenance activities as maintenance is defined by 23 U.S.C. 101;
(4) Operation and maintenance programs;
(5) Projects using funds transferred under an approved Public Law 102-477 plan; and
(6) Non-403(c) Programs that are less than $100,000, subject to 25 U.S.C. 5363(e)(2), other applicable Federal law, and § 1000.1515.
§ 1000.1306
May a program or project-specific grant or contracting mechanism involving construction and related activities satisfy the requirements of this subpart?
Yes, program or project-specific contracting mechanisms or agreements involving construction and related activities will satisfy the requirements of this subpart and may be incorporated into the Tribe/Consortium's funding agreement, provided that such program or project-specific contracting mechanism or agreement addresses all the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 5367 that are applicable to the construction program or project. Nothing herein shall require the Secretary to duplicate the Federal requirements of 25 U.S.C. 5367 that are applicable to the project in the program or project-specific contracting mechanism or agreement.
§ 1000.1307
May the Secretary accept funds from another Department for a program or project involving construction and related activities for transfer to the Tribe/Consortium under its funding agreement or construction project agreement?
Yes, the Secretary may accept funds from another Department for a program or project involving construction and related activities for transfer to the Tribe/Consortium under its funding agreement or construction project agreement, subject to an interagency agreement between the Secretary and the Federal agency, with the concurrence of the Tribe/Consortium before such interagency agreement is finalized, that addresses the purpose, intent, Federal oversight and other responsibilities for the construction program or project, and related activities.
§ 1000.1310
What alternatives are available for a Tribe/Consortium to perform a construction program or project?
(a) As authorized by 25 U.S.C. 5367(g), and at the option of the Tribe/Consortium, construction project funding proposals shall be negotiated with the Secretary pursuant to the statutory process in 25 U.S.C. 5324, and any resulting agreement shall be incorporated into the funding agreement as an “addendum”; or
(b) A Tribe/Consortium may negotiate a construction project with the Secretary pursuant to the statutory process in 25 U.S.C. 5324, and incorporate any resulting construction project agreement into a separate title I construction contract and funding agreement subject to title I and the part 900 regulations, including subpart J (Construction) of part 900. Such construction project shall not be subject to this subpart.
§ 1000.1315
Does this subpart create an agency relationship?
No, a BIA or non-BIA construction program or project does not automatically create an agency relationship. However, Federal law, provisions of a funding agreement, or Federal actions may create an agency relationship.

# Notification and Project Assumption
§ 1000.1320
Is the Secretary required to consult with affected Tribes/Consortia concerning construction projects and programs?
Yes, before developing a new project resource allocation methodology and application process the Secretary must consult with all Indian Tribes/Consortia as set forth in subpart I of this part.
§ 1000.1325
When does the Secretary confer with a Tribe/Consortium concerning Tribal preferences as to size, location, type, and other characteristics of a project?
Before spending any funds for planning, design, construction, or renovation projects, whether or not subject to a competitive application and ranking process, the Secretary must confer with any Indian Tribe/Consortium that would be significantly affected by the expenditure to determine and honor Tribal preferences whenever practicable concerning the size, location, type, and other characteristics of the project.
§ 1000.1330
What does a Tribe/Consortium do if it wants to perform a construction project or program under 25 U.S.C. 5367?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium may start the process of developing a construction project proposal to include in a funding
agreement or construction project agreement by:
(1) Notifying the Secretary in writing that the Tribe/Consortium wishes to perform one or more construction projects under 25 U.S.C. 5367; or
(2) Submitting a proposed construction project agreement for consideration and negotiation, or
(3) A combination of the actions described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b) Within 30 days after receiving a request from a Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium shall exchange all applicable information available to each party about the project including, but not limited to, planning, construction drawings, maps, engineering reports, design reports, plans of requirements, cost estimates, environmental assessments, or environmental impact reports and archaeological reports.
§ 1000.1335
What must a Tribal proposal for a construction program or project contain?
A construction project proposal must contain all of the required elements of a construction project contained in § 1000.1355. In addition to these minimum requirements, a Tribe/Consortium may include additional items for negotiation.
§ 1000.1340
May multiple projects be included in a single construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium may include multiple projects in a single funding agreement or construction project agreement if funded by the same bureau, or may add additional projects by amendment(s) to an existing funding agreement or construction project agreement with the same bureau.
§ 1000.1345
Must a construction project proposal incorporate provisions of Federal construction guidelines and manuals?
(a) No, the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary must agree upon and specify appropriate building codes and architectural and engineering standards (including health and safety) which must be in conformity with nationally recognized standards for comparable projects as long as they meet or exceed the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 5367(d).
(b) The Secretary may provide, or the Tribe/Consortium may request, Federal construction guidelines and manuals for consideration by the Tribe/Consortium in the preparation of its construction project proposal. If Tribal construction codes and standards (including national, regional, State, or Tribal building codes or contrition industry standards) that meet or exceed otherwise applicable standards, the Secretary must accept the Tribally proposed standards.
§ 1000.1350
What provisions relating to a construction project or program may be included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement?
Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by a Tribe/Consortium, no provision of title 41, United States Code, the Federal Acquisition Regulations, or any other law or regulation pertaining to Federal procurement, shall apply to any construction program or project carried out under title IV of the Act. Absent a negotiated agreement, such provisions and regulatory requirements do not apply.
§ 1000.1355
What provisions must a Tribe/Consortium include in a construction project agreement or funding agreement that contains a construction project or program?
(a) For each construction project or program carried out by the Tribe/Consortium under 25 U.S.C. 5367, the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary shall negotiate a provision in the construction project agreement or funding agreement that identifies:
(1) The approximate start and completion dates for the project, which may extend over a period of one or more years;
(2) A general description of the project, including the scope of work, references to design criteria, and other terms and conditions;
(3) The responsibilities of the Tribe/Consortium for the project;
(4) How project-related environmental considerations will be addressed;
(5) The amount of Federal funds provided for the project;
(6) The terms and conditions by which funding for the project, including contingency funds, will be paid to the Tribe/Consortium by the Secretary;
(7) The obligations of the Tribe/Consortium to comply with the applicable codes and standards referenced in 25 U.S.C. 5367(d) and applicable Federal laws and regulations;
(8) The agreement of the parties over who will bear any additional costs necessary to meet changes in scope, or errors or omissions in design and construction;
(9) The entity responsible to issue any Certificate of Occupancy, if applicable; and
(10) Other terms and conditions the parties mutually agree upon.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium shall include in the construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program a provision for the submission to the Secretary of progress reports and financial status reports not less than semi-annually commencing after funding for the project is received by the Tribe/Consortium and continuing until the construction of the project is complete.

# Requirements and Standards
§ 1000.1360
What codes, standards and architects and engineers must a Tribe/Consortium use when performing a construction project under this part?
In carrying out a construction project under this subpart, a Tribe/Consortium must:
(a) Adhere to applicable Federal, State, local, and Tribal building codes, architectural and engineering standards, and applicable Federal guidelines regarding design, space, and operational standards, appropriate for the particular project; and
(b) Use only architects and engineers who:
(1) Are licensed to practice in the State in which the facility will be built; and
(2) Certify that:
(i) They are qualified to perform the work required by the specific construction involved; and
(ii) Upon completion of design, the plans, and specifications meet or exceed the applicable construction and safety codes.

# NEPA Process
§ 1000.1365
Are Tribes/Consortia required to carry out activities involving NEPA in order to enter into a construction project agreement?
No, Tribes/Consortia are not required to carry out any activities involving NEPA in order to enter into a construction project agreement.
§ 1000.1370
How may a Tribe/Consortium elect to assume some Federal responsibilities under NEPA?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium may, subject to the agreement of the Secretary, elect to assume some Federal responsibilities under NEPA, NHPA, and related provisions of other laws and regulations that would apply if the Secretary were to undertake a construction project by adopting a resolution:
(1) Designating a certifying Tribal officer to represent the Indian Tribe and to assume the status of a responsible Federal official under those Acts, laws, or regulations; and
(2) Accepting the jurisdiction of the United States courts for the purpose of enforcing the responsibilities of the certifying Tribal officer assuming the status of a responsible Federal official under those Acts, laws, or regulations.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, nothing in this section authorizes the Secretary to include in any compact or funding agreement duties of the Secretary under NEPA, NHPA, and other related provisions of law that are inherent Federal functions.
§ 1000.1375
How may a Tribe/Consortium carry out activities involving NEPA without assuming some Federal responsibilities?
A Tribe/Consortium may elect to carry out some or all activities involving development and preparation of applicable documentation under NEPA, NHPA and related provisions of other laws and regulations for final review and approval by the Secretary.
§ 1000.1379
Are Tribes/Consortia required to adopt a separate resolution or take equivalent Tribal action to assume some environmental responsibilities of the Secretary under NEPA, NHPA, and related laws and regulations for each construction project?
No, the Tribe/Consortium may adopt a single resolution or take equivalent Tribal action to assume some environmental responsibilities of the Secretary for NEPA, NHPA, and related laws and regulations for a single project, multiple projects, a class of projects, or all projects performed under 25 U.S.C. 5367.
§ 1000.1380
What additional provisions of law are related to NEPA and NHPA?
(a) Depending upon the nature and the location of the construction project, environmental laws related to NEPA and NHPA may include:
(1) Archaeological and Historical Data Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 3120501 through 3120508);
(2) Archeological Resources Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 470aa
et seq.
);
(3) Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
);
(4) Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
);
(5) Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
);
(6) Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
);
(7) Coastal Zone Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
];
(8) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.
);
(9) Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
);
(10) Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4201
et seq.
);
(11) Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act (33 U.S.C. 1401 through 1445; 16 U.S.C. 1431 through 1447F; 33 U.S.C. 2801 through 2805);
(12) National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1241
et seq.
);
(13) Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
);
(14) Noise Control Act (42 U.S.C. 4901
et seq.
);
(15) Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
);
(16) Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f
et seq.
);
(17) Toxic Substance Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
);
(18) Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271
et seq.
); and
(19) Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.
)
(b) This section provides a list of environmental laws for informational purposes only and does not create any legal rights or remedies, or imply private rights of action.
§ 1000.1385
What is the typical environmental review process for construction projects?
(a) During the environmental review process, the following activities may occur:
(1) Consult with appropriate Tribal, Federal, state, local officials, and interested parties on potential environmental effects;
(2) Document assessment of reasonably foreseeable environmental effects;
(3) Perform necessary environmental surveys and inventories;
(4) Consult with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, acting through the SHPO or THPO, to ensure compliance with the NHPA;
(5) In applying a categorical exclusion under NEPA, evaluate whether extraordinary circumstances exist in which a normally excluded project may have a significant effect, and therefore require preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement;
(6) Identify methods to avoid or mitigate potential adverse effects; and
(7) Obtain environmental permits and approvals as required.
(b) This section is for informational purposes only and does not create any legal rights or remedies, or imply private rights of action.
§ 1000.1390
Is the Secretary required to take into account the Indigenous Knowledge of Tribes/Consortia when preparing environmental studies under NEPA, NHPA, and related provisions of other law and regulations?
Yes, Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations direct agencies
to make use of high-quality information including reliable data and resources, models, and Indigenous Knowledge, in carrying out their responsibilities under NEPA. The Secretary recognizes that Tribes/Consortia hold relevant information and perspectives regarding the environment, and Indigenous Knowledge can inform the Secretary's environmental analysis. Similarly, section 106 of NHPA (54 U.S.C. 306108) establishes a process to ensure that the Secretary take into account the effects of a project the Department carries out, licenses, or assists on historic properties.
§ 1000.1395
May a Tribe/Consortium act as a cooperating agency or joint lead agency for environmental review purposes regardless of whether it exercises its option under § 1000.1370(a)(1)?
Yes, consistent with 40 CFR 1501.7(b) and 1501.8, a Tribe/Consortium may act as a cooperating agency or joint lead agency for environmental review purposes under this part. For informational purposes only, the term “cooperating agency” is defined at 40 CFR 1508.1(g) and the criteria for a Tribe/Consortium to act as a “cooperating agency” are set out in 40 CFR 1501.8 and Department regulations at 43 CFR 46.225, respectively.
§ 1000.1400
How does a Tribe/Consortium comply with NEPA and NHPA?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium complies with NEPA and NHPA by:
(1) Developing and adopting their own environmental review procedures that meet or exceed applicable Federal requirements;
(2) Adopting the procedures of the Secretary; or
(3) Adopting the procedures of another Federal agency.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium shall reference such procedures in the funding agreement or construction project agreement and use such procedures in undertaking the project.
§ 1000.1405
If a Tribe/Consortium adopts the environmental review procedures of a Federal agency, is the Tribe/Consortium responsible for ensuring the agency's policies and procedures meet the requirements of NEPA, NHPA, and related environmental laws?
No, the Federal agency is responsible for ensuring its own policies and procedures meet the requirements of NEPA, NHPA, and related environmental laws, not the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.1410
Are Federal funds available to cover the cost of Tribes/Consortia carrying out environmental responsibilities?
Yes, funds are available:
(a) For project-specific environmental costs through the construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes the construction project; and
(b) For environmental review program costs through a funding agreement and/or a construction project agreement.
§ 1000.1415
How are project and program environmental review costs identified?
(a) The Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary shall work together during the initial stages of project development to identify program and project related costs associated with carrying out environmental responsibilities for proposed projects. The goal in this process is to identify the costs associated with all foreseeable environmental review activities.
(b) If unforeseen environmental review and compliance costs are identified during the performance of the construction project, the Tribe/Consortium or, at the request of the Tribe/Consortium, the Tribe/Consortium and Secretary may do one or more of the following:
(1) Mitigate adverse environmental effects;
(2) Alter the project scope of work; and/or
(3) Add additional program and/or project funding, including seeking supplemental appropriations.
§ 1000.1420
What costs may be included in the budget for a construction project or program?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium may include costs allowed by applicable provisions of subpart E of 2 CFR part 200, and costs allowed under 25 U.S.C. 5367, 25 U.S.C. 5325 and 25 U.S.C. 5324(m). The cost incurred will vary depending on which phase of the construction process the Tribe/Consortium is conducting and type of construction project agreement that will be used.
(b) Regardless of whether a construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project is fixed priced or cost-reimbursement, budgets may include costs or fees associated with the following:
(1) Construction project proposal preparation;
(2) Conducting community meetings to develop project documents;
(3) Architects, engineers, and other consultants to prepare project planning documents, to develop project plans and specifications, and to assist in oversight of the design during construction;
(4) Real property lease or acquisition;
(5) Development of project surveys including topographical surveys, site boundary descriptions, geotechnical surveys, archeological surveys, and NEPA compliance;
(6) Project management, superintendence, safety, and inspection;
(7) Travel, including local travel incurred as a direct result of conducting the construction project agreement and remote travel in conjunction with the project;
(8) Consultants, such as demographic consultants, planning consultants, attorneys, accountants, and personnel who provide services, to include construction management services;
(9) Project site development;
(10) Project construction cost;
(11) General, administrative overhead, and indirect costs;
(12) Securing and installing moveable equipment, telecommunications and data processing equipment, furnishings, including works of art, and special purpose equipment when part of a construction contract;
(12) Other costs directly related to performing the construction project;
(13) Project Contingency;
(i) A cost-reimbursement project agreement budgets contingency as a broad category. Project contingency remaining at the end of the project is considered savings.
(ii) Fixed-price agreements budget project contingency in the lump sum price or unit price.
(c) In the case of a fixed-price project agreement, a reasonable profit determined by taking into consideration the relevant risks and local market conditions.
§ 1000.1425
May the Secretary reject a Tribe's/Consortium's final offer of a construction project proposal submitted under subpart I of this part based on a determination of Tribal capacity or capability?
No, the Secretary may not reject a Tribe's/Consortium's final offer of a construction project based on a determination of Tribal capacity or capability.
§ 1000.1430
On what basis may the Secretary reject a final offer of a construction project proposal made by a Tribe/Consortium?
As described in subpart I of this part, rejection of a final offer by the Secretary for a construction project must be based on a specific finding by the Secretary that clearly demonstrates, or that is supported by a controlling legal authority, that one or more of the statutory criteria under 25 U.S.C. 5366(c)(6) exist to reject the final offer.

# Role of the Secretary
§ 1000.1435
What is the Secretary's role in a construction project performed under this subpart?
The Secretary has the following role regarding a construction program or project contained in a funding agreement or construction project agreement:
(a) On a schedule negotiated by the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium, to ensure health and safety standards and compliance with Federal law, the Secretary shall review and verify, to the satisfaction of the Secretary:
(1) That project planning and documents prepared by the Tribe/Consortium in advance of initial construction
are in conformity with the obligations of the Tribe/Consortium under 25 U.S.C. 5367(d); and
(2) Before the project planning and design documents are implemented, that subsequent document amendments that result in a significant change in construction are in conformity with the obligations of the Tribe/Consortium under 25 U.S.C. 5367(d).
(b) Where no time is otherwise specified in a funding agreement or construction project agreement, the Secretary shall complete the review and verification of project documents required under 25 U.S.C. 5367(h) and provide a Tribe/Consortium a written response within 30 days of the Secretary's receipt from the Tribe/Consortium of project planning and design documents. Absent a written response by the Secretary within the 30-day period, the project planning and design documents, or amendments to such documents, shall be deemed to be conformity with the Tribe's obligations under 25 U.S.C. 5367(d).
(c) The Secretary must approve any proposed changes in the construction project that require;
(1) An increase in the negotiated funding amount; or
(2) An increase in the negotiated performance period; or
(3) A significant departure from the scope or objective of the construction program as agreed to in the funding agreement or construction project agreement.
(d) A Tribe/Consortium may make immaterial changes to the performance period and make budget adjustments within available Federal funding without an amendment to the funding agreement or construction project agreement.
(e) The Secretary may conduct onsite project oversight visits semiannually or on an alternate schedule agreed to by the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium. The Secretary must provide the Tribe/Consortium with reasonable advance written notice to assist the Tribe/Consortium in coordinating the visit. The purpose of the visit is to review the progress under the construction project agreement or funding agreement. At the request of the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must provide the Tribe/Consortium a written site visit report;
(f) Where the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium share construction project or program activities, the Secretary and Tribe/Consortium shall provide for the exchange of information;
(g) The Secretary may reassume the construction portion of a funding agreement or construction project agreement if the Secretary, in accordance with subpart M of this part, makes a written finding of:
(1) A significant failure to substantially carry out the terms of the funding agreement or construction agreement without good cause; or
(2) Imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, to a natural resource, or that adversely affects public health and safety as provided in subpart M of this part.
§ 1000.1440
What constitutes a “significant change” in the original scope of work?
A significant change in the original scope of work is:
(a) A change that would result in a cost that exceeds the total of the Federal project funds available and the Tribe's/Consortium's contingency funds; or
(b) A material departure from the original scope of work, including substantial departure from timelines negotiated in the construction project agreement.
§ 1000.1445
May the Secretary suspend construction activities under the terms of a funding agreement or construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA?
(a) The Secretary may, in lieu of reassumption under subpart M of this part, allow a Tribe/Consortium to suspend certain work under a construction project included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA for up to 30 days only if the Secretary notifies the Tribe/Consortium in writing that the Secretary has found that:
(1) Site conditions adversely affect health and safety; or
(2) Work in progress or completed for the construction project fails to substantially carry out the terms of the
construction project agreement or funding agreement without good cause.
(b) The Secretary may suspend only work directly related to the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section unless other reasons for suspension are specifically negotiated in the funding agreement or construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA.
(c) Unless the Secretary determines that a health and safety emergency requiring immediate reassumption under subpart M of this part exists, before requesting a suspension of work on the project by the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must provide:
(1) A 5-working days written notice to the Tribe/Consortium specifying the reasons the Secretary requests a suspension of certain project work; and
(2) A reasonable opportunity for the Tribe/Consortium to correct the problem.
(d) The Tribe/Consortium must be compensated for reasonable costs due to any suspension of work that occurred through no fault of the Tribe/Consortium. Project funds will not be used for this purpose. However, if suspension occurs due to the action or inaction of the Tribe/Consortium, then project funds will be used to cover suspension related activities.
§ 1000.1450
How are property and funding returned if there is a reassumption for substantial failure to carry out a construction project?
If there is a reassumption by the Secretary of a project for substantial failure to carry out the funding agreement or construction project agreement, property and funding will be returned as provided in subparts M and N of this part.
§ 1000.1455
What happens when a Tribe/Consortium, suspended under § 1000.1445 for substantial failure to carry out the terms of a funding agreement that includes a construction project or program or a construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA without good cause, does not correct the failure during the suspension?
Except when the Secretary makes a finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, a natural resource, or public health and safety, requiring immediate reassumption as provided in subpart M of this part, a finding by the Secretary of substantial failure to carry out the terms of the construction project agreement under title IV of the ISDEAA or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program without good cause is not corrected or resolved by the Tribe/Consortium during the suspension of work, the Secretary may initiate a reassumption at the end of the 30-day suspension of work if an extension has not been negotiated. Any unresolved dispute will be processed in accordance with the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, 41 U.S.C. 7101,
et seq.
§ 1000.1460
How does the Secretary make advance payments to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement or construction project agreement?
(a) For all construction projects performed under a funding agreement or construction project agreement, advance payments shall be made annually or semiannually, at the Tribe's/Consortium's option as provided in 25 U.S.C. 5367(f). The initial payment shall include all contingency funding for the project or phase of the project to the extent that there are funds appropriated for that purpose.
(b) The amount of subsequent advance payments is based on the mutually agreeable project schedule reflecting:
(1) Work to be accomplished within the advance payment period;
(2) Work already accomplished; and
(3) Total prior payments for each annual or semiannual advance payment period.
(c) For lump sum, fixed price agreements, at the request of the Tribe/Consortium, payments shall be based on an advance payment period measured as follows:
(1) One year; or
(2) Project Phase (
e.g.,
planning, design, construction). If project phase is chosen by the Tribe/Consortium as the payment period, the full amount of funds necessary to perform the work for that phase of the construction project agreement is payable in the initial advance payment. For multi-phase projects, the planning and design
phases must be completed prior to the transfer of funds by the Secretary for the associated construction phase. The completion of the planning and design phases will include at least one opportunity for Secretarial approval in accordance with § 1000.1435.
(d) For construction project agreements, the amount of advance payments shall include the funds necessary to perform the work identified in the advance payment period of one year.
(e) Any agreement to advance funds under paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this section is subject to the availability of appropriations.
(f) Initial advance payments are due within 10 days of the effective date of the funding agreement or construction project agreement, and subsequent advance payments are due:
(1) Within 10 days of apportionment for annual payments, or
(2) Within 10 days of the start date of the project phase for phase payments.
§ 1000.1465
Is a facility built under this subpart eligible for annual operation and maintenance funding?
Yes, upon completion of a facility constructed under the Act, the Secretary shall include the facility among those eligible for annual operation and maintenance funding support comparable to that provided for similar facilities funded by the Department as annual appropriations are available and to the extent that the facility size and complexity and other factors do not exceed the funding formula criteria for comparable buildings.

# Role of the Tribe/Consortium
§ 1000.1470
What is the Tribe's/Consortium's role in a construction project included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement under this subpart?
(a) In carrying out a construction project under the Act, a Tribe/Consortium shall assume responsibility for the completion of the construction project and of a facility that is usable for the purpose for which the Tribe/Consortium received funding, including day-to-day on-site management and administration of the project, in accordance with the negotiated funding agreement or construction project agreement. However, Tribes/Consortia are not required to perform beyond the amount of funds provided. For example, a Tribe/Consortium may encounter unforeseen circumstances during the term of a funding agreement or construction project agreement. If this occurs, options available to the Tribe/Consortium include, but are not limited to:
(1) Reallocating existing funding;
(2) Reducing/revising the scope of work that does not require an amendment because it does not result in a significant change;
(3) Utilizing savings;
(4) Requesting additional funds or appropriations;
(5) Utilizing interest earnings;
(6) Seeking funds from other sources; and/or
(7) Redesigning or re-scoping that does not result in a significant change by amendment as provided in the funding agreement the construction project agreement.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium must give the Secretary timely notice of any proposed changes to the project that require an increase to the negotiated funding amount or an increase in the negotiated performance period or any other significant departure from the scope or objective of the project. The Tribe/Consortium and Secretary may negotiate to include timely notice requirements in the funding agreement or construction project agreement.
§ 1000.1475
Is a Tribe/Consortium required to submit construction project progress and financial reports for construction projects?
Yes, as required under § 1000.1355(b), construction project progress reports and financial reports are only required for active construction projects. The construction progress and financial reports shall provide the following information:
(a) Construction project progress reports contain information about accomplishments during the reporting period and issues and concerns of the Tribe/Consortium relating to the project, if any. Construction progress information will include the following, as applicable:
(1) Phase(s) of the project completed or in progress including but not limited to design complete, environmental review complete, and construction underway;
(2) Milestone project event(s) reached (
e.g.,
50% of the project is completed);
(3) Other information mutually agreeable to the Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary.
(4) Upon project completion, the final construction progress report will provide notification to the Secretary that the project has been completed in accordance with the approved project scope, including any changes in the project scope of work.
(b) Construction project financial reports contain information regarding the amount of funds expended during the reporting period and financial concerns of the Tribe/Consortium concerning the project, if any.

# Other
§ 1000.1480
May a Tribe/Consortium continue work with construction funds remaining in a funding agreement or construction project agreement at the end of the funding year?
Yes, any funds remaining in a funding agreement or construction project agreement for a project at the end of the funding year may be spent for construction under the terms of the funding agreement or construction project agreement for which the funds were awarded.
§ 1000.1485
Must a construction project agreement or funding agreement that contains a construction project or activity incorporate provisions of Federal construction standards?
(a) No, the Secretary may, however, provide information about Federal standards as early as possible in the construction process.
(b) If Tribal construction codes and standards (including national, regional, State, or Tribal building codes or construction industry standards), including health and safety, meet or exceed applicable Federal codes and standards, then the Secretary must accept the Tribe's/Consortium's proposed codes and standards.
(c) The Secretary may also accept commonly accepted industry construction codes and standards; provided that such codes and standards meet or exceed otherwise applicable Federal standards for the construction project.
§ 1000.1490
May the Secretary require design provisions and other terms and conditions for construction projects or programs included in a funding agreement or construction project agreement under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c))?
Yes, the relevant bureau may provide to the Tribe/Consortium project design criteria and other terms and conditions that are required for such a construction project or program. The construction project or program must be completed in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the funding agreement or construction project agreement.
§ 1000.1495
Do all provisions of other subparts apply to construction portions of a funding agreement or construction project agreement?
Yes, all provisions of other subparts apply to construction portions of a funding agreement or construction project agreement unless those provisions are inconsistent with this subpart.
§ 1000.1500
When a Tribe withdraws from a Consortium, is the Secretary required to award to the withdrawing Tribe a portion of funds associated with a construction project if the withdrawing Tribe so requests?
Under § 1000.235, a Tribe may withdraw from a Consortium and request its portion of a construction project's funds. The Secretary may decide not to award these funds if the award will affect the Consortium's ability to complete a non-severable phase of the project within available funding. A non-severable phase of a project would include but is not limited to the construction of a single building serving a Consortium. A severable phase of a project would include but is not limited to the funding for a road in one village where the Consortium would be able to complete the roads in the other villages that were part of the project
approved initially in the funding agreement. The Secretary's decision under this section may be appealed under subpart R of this part.
§ 1000.1505
May a Tribe/Consortium reallocate funds from a construction program to a non-construction program?
No, a Tribe/Consortium may not reallocate funds from a construction program to a non-construction program unless otherwise provided under the relevant appropriation acts.
§ 1000.1510
May a Tribe/Consortium reallocate funds among construction programs?
Yes, a Tribe/Consortium may reallocate funds among construction programs if permitted by appropriations law or if approved in advance by the Secretary.
§ 1000.1515
Must the Secretary retain project funds to ensure proper health and safety standards in construction projects?
Yes, the Secretary must retain project funds to ensure proper health and safety standards in construction projects. Examples of purposes for which bureaus may retain funds include:
(a) Determining or approving appropriate construction standards to be used in funding agreements;
(b) Verifying that there is an adequate Tribal inspection system utilizing licensed professionals;
(c) Providing for sufficient monitoring of design and construction by the Secretary; and
(d) Requiring corrective action during performance when appropriate.
§ 1000.1520
What funding must the Secretary provide in a construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program?
The Secretary must provide funding for a construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5325 and 25 U.S.C. 5363(g)(3).
§ 1000.1525
Must Federal funds from other DOI sources be incorporated into a construction project agreement or funding agreement that includes a construction project or program?
Yes, at the request of the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must include Federal funds from other DOI sources as permitted by law, whether on an ongoing or a one-time basis.
§ 1000.1530
May a Tribe/Consortium contribute funding to a project?
Yes, at the discretion of a Tribe/Consortium, a Tribe/Consortium may contribute funds to a construction project.

# Subpart L—Federal Tort Claims
§ 1000.1601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart explains the applicability of the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). This section covers:
(a) Coverage of claims arising out of the performance under compacts and funding agreements;
(b) Procedures for filing claims under FTCA; and
(c) Procedures for a Tribe/Consortium to cooperate with the Federal Government in connection with tort claims arising out of the Tribe's/Consortium's performance of a compact or funding agreement under this part.
§ 1000.1605
What other statutes and regulations apply to FTCA coverage?
A number of other statutes and regulations apply to FTCA coverage, including the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 1346(b), 2401, 2671 through 2680), 25 U.S.C. 5376, and related U.S. Department of Justice regulations in 28 CFR part 14.
§ 1000.1610
Do Tribes/Consortia need to be aware of areas which FTCA does not cover?
Yes, there are claims against Tribes/Consortia which are not covered by FTCA, claims which may not be pursued under FTCA, and remedies that are excluded by FTCA. The following general guidance is not intended as a definitive description of coverage, which is subject to review by the U.S.
Department of Justice and the courts on a case-by-case basis.
(a)
What claims are expressly barred by FTCA and therefore may not be made against the United States, a Tribe, or Consortium?
Any claim under 28 U.S.C. 2680, including claims arising out of assault, battery, false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, abuse of process, libel, slander, misrepresentation, deceit, or interference with contract rights, unless otherwise authorized by 28 U.S.C. 2680(h).
(b)
What claims may not be pursued under FTCA?
(1) Claims against subcontractors arising out of the performance of subcontracts with a Tribe/Consortium;
(2) Claims for on-the-job injuries which are covered by workmen's compensation;
(3) Claims for breach of contract rather than tort claims; or
(4) Claims resulting from activities performed by an employee which are outside the scope of employment.
(c)
What remedies are expressly excluded by FTCA and therefore are barred?
(1) Punitive damages, unless otherwise authorized by 28 U.S.C. 2674; and
(2) Other remedies not permitted under applicable state law.
§ 1000.1615
Is there a deadline for filing FTCA claims?
Yes, claims shall be filed within 2 years of the date of accrual. (28 U.S.C. 2401).
§ 1000.1620
How long does the Federal Government have to process a FTCA claim after the claim is received by the Federal agency, before a lawsuit may be filed?
The Federal Government has 6 months to process a FTCA claim after the claim is received by the Federal agency, before a lawsuit may be filed.
§ 1000.1625
Is it necessary for a compact or funding agreement to include any clauses about FTCA coverage?
No, clauses about FTCA coverage are optional. At the request of Tribes/Consortia, a compact or funding agreement shall include the following clause to clarify the scope of FTCA coverage:
For purposes of FTCA coverage, the Tribe/Consortium and its employees (including individuals performing personal services contracts with the Tribe/Consortium) are deemed to be employees of the Federal Government while performing work under the compact or funding agreement. This status is not changed by the source of the funds used by the Tribe/Consortium to pay the employee's salary and benefits unless the employee receives additional compensation for performing covered services from anyone other than the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.1630
Does FTCA apply to a compact and funding agreement if FTCA is not referenced in the compact or funding agreement?
Yes. In accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5376, FTCA applies to a compact or funding agreement even if the compact or funding agreement does not mention it.
§ 1000.1635
To what extent shall the Tribe/Consortium cooperate with the Federal Government in connection with tort claims arising out of the Tribe's/Consortium's performance of a compact, funding agreement, or subcontract?
(a) The Tribe/Consortium shall designate in writing to the Secretary an individual to serve as tort claims liaison with the Federal Government.
(b) As part of the notification required by 28 U.S.C. 2679(c), the Tribe/Consortium shall notify the Secretary immediately in writing of any tort claim (including any proceeding before an administrative agency or court) filed against the Tribe/Consortium or any of its employees that relates to performance of a compact, funding agreement, or subcontract.
(c) The Tribe/Consortium, through its designated tort claims liaison, shall assist the appropriate Federal agency in preparing a comprehensive, accurate, and unbiased report of the incident so that the claim may be properly evaluated. This report should be completed within 60 days of notification of the filing of the tort claim. The report should be complete in every significant detail and include as appropriate:
(1) The date, time and exact place of the accident or incident;
(2) A concise and complete statement of the circumstances of the accident or incident;
(3) The names and addresses of Tribal and/or Federal employees involved as participants or witnesses;
(4) The names and addresses of all other eyewitnesses;
(5) An accurate description of all government and other privately-owned property involved and the nature and amount of damage, if any;
(6) A statement as to whether any person involved was cited for violating a Federal, State, or Tribal law, ordinance, or regulation;
(7) The Tribe's/Consortium's determination as to whether any of its employees (including Federal employees assigned to the Tribe/Consortium) involved in the incident giving rise to the tort claim were acting within the scope of their employment in the performance of the compact or funding agreement at the time the incident occurred;
(8) Copies of all relevant documentation, including available police reports, statements of witnesses, newspaper accounts, weather reports, plats and photographs of the site or damaged property, such as may be necessary or useful for purposes of claim determination by the Federal agency; and
(9) Insurance coverage information, copies of medical bills, and relevant employment records.
(d) The Tribe/Consortium shall cooperate with and provide assistance to the U.S. Department of Justice attorneys assigned to defend the tort claim, including, but not limited to, case preparation, discovery, and trial.
(e) If requested by the Secretary, the Tribe/Consortium shall make an assignment and subrogation of all the Tribe's/Consortium's rights and claims (except those against the Federal Government) arising out of a tort claim against the Tribe/Consortium.
(f) If requested by the Secretary, the Tribe/Consortium shall authorize representatives of the Secretary to settle or defend any claim and to represent the Tribe/Consortium in or take charge of any action.
(g) If the Federal Government undertakes the settlement or defense of any claim or action, the Tribe/Consortium shall provide all reasonable additional assistance in reaching a settlement or asserting a defense.
§ 1000.1640
Does this coverage extend to subcontractors of compacts and funding agreements?
No, subcontractors or subgrantees providing services to a Public Law 93-638 Tribe/Consortium are generally not covered.
§ 1000.1645
Is FTCA the exclusive remedy for a tort claim, including a claim concerning personal injury or death, resulting from the performance of a compact or funding agreement?
Yes, except as explained in § 1000.1610(b). No claim may be filed against a Tribe/Consortium or employee based upon performance of a compact or funding agreement. All claims shall be filed against the United States and are subject to the limitations and restrictions of FTCA.
§ 1000.1650
What employees are covered by FTCA for claims arising out of a Tribe's/Consortia's performance of a compact or funding agreement?
The following employees are covered by FTCA for claims:
(a) Permanent employees of the Tribe/Consortium;
(b) Temporary employees of the Tribe/Consortium;
(c) Persons providing services without compensation in the performance of a compact or funding agreement; and;
(d) Federal employees assigned to a Tribe/Consortium under the compact or funding agreement including those under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act.
§ 1000.1655
Does FTCA cover employees of the Tribe/Consortium who are paid by the Tribe/Consortium from funds other than those provided through the funding agreement?
Yes, FTCA covers employees of the Tribe/Consortium who are not paid from funds transferred under a funding agreement as long as the services out of which the claim arose were performed under the compact or funding agreement.
§ 1000.1660
May persons who are not Indians or Alaska Natives assert claims under FTCA arising out of the performance of a compact or funding agreement by a Tribe/Consortium?
Yes, any person(s) may assert tort claims under FTCA arising out of the performance of a compact or funding agreement by Tribes/Consortia under this subpart.
§ 1000.1665
If the Tribe/Consortium or Tribe's/Consortium's employee receives a summons and/or a complaint alleging a tort covered by FTCA and arising out of the performance of a compact or funding agreement, what should the Tribe/Consortium do?
As part of the notification required by 28 U.S.C. 2679(c), if the Tribe/Consortium or Tribe's/Consortium's employee receives a summons and/or complaint alleging a tort covered by FTCA and arising out the performance of a compact or funding agreement, the Tribe/Consortium should immediately:
(a) Inform the Assistant Solicitor, Procurement and Patents, Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, Room 6511, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
(b) Inform the Tribe's/Consortium's tort claims liaison, and
(c) Forward all of the materials identified in § 1000.1635(c) to the contacts given in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

# Subpart M—Reassumption
§ 1000.1701
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart explains when the Secretary can reassume a program without the consent of a Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.1705
What does reassumption mean?
Reassumption means the Secretary, without consent of the Tribe/Consortium, takes control or operation of the PSFAs and associated funding in a compact or funding agreement, in whole or in part, and assumes the responsibility to provide such PSFAs.
§ 1000.1710
Under what circumstances may the Secretary reassume a program operated by a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
The Secretary may reassume a program and the associated funding if the Secretary makes a specific finding relating to that program of:
(a) Imminent jeopardy to a trust asset, a natural resource, or public health and safety that:
(1) Is caused by an act or omission of the Tribe/Consortium; and
(2) Arises out of a failure to carry out the compact or funding agreement; or
(b) Gross mismanagement with respect to funds transferred to a Tribe/Consortium under a compact or funding agreement, as determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Inspector General, as appropriate.
§ 1000.1715
What is “imminent jeopardy” to a trust asset?
Imminent jeopardy means an immediate threat and likelihood of significant devaluation, degradation, damage, or loss of a trust asset, or the intended benefit from the asset caused by the actions or inactions of a Tribe/Consortium in performing trust functions. This includes disregarding Federal trust standards and/or Federal law while performing trust functions if the disregard creates such an immediate threat.
§ 1000.1720
What is “imminent jeopardy” to natural resources?
The standard for natural resources is the same as for a physical trust asset, except that a review for compliance with the specific mandatory statutory provisions related to the program as reflected in the funding agreement must also be considered.
§ 1000.1725
What is “imminent jeopardy” to public health and safety?
Imminent jeopardy to public health and safety means an immediate and significant threat of serious harm to human well-being, including conditions that may result in serious injury, or death, caused by Tribal/Consortium action or inaction or as otherwise provided in a funding agreement.
§ 1000.1730
What steps must the Secretary take prior to reassumption becoming effective?
Except as provided in § 1000.1750 for immediate reassumption, prior to a reassumption becoming effective, the Secretary must:
(a) Notify the Tribe/Consortium in writing of the details of the findings required under § 1000.1710;
(b) Request specific corrective action to remedy the mismanagement of the funds or programs within a reasonable period of time which in no case may be less than 45 days;
(c) Offer and provide, if requested, the necessary technical assistance and advice to assist the Tribe/Consortium overcome the conditions that led to the findings described under (a); and
(d) Provide the Tribe/Consortium with a hearing on the record as provided under subpart R of this part.
§ 1000.1735
Does the Tribe/Consortium have a right to a hearing prior to a non-immediate reassumption becoming effective?
Yes, at the request of the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must provide a hearing on the record prior to or in lieu of the corrective action period identified in § 1000.1730(b).
§ 1000.1740
What happens if the Secretary determines that the Tribe/Consortium has not corrected the conditions that the Secretary identified in the written notice?
(a) The Secretary shall provide a second written notice to the Tribe/Consortium served by the compact or funding agreement that the compact or funding agreement will be rescinded, in whole or in part.
(b) The second notice shall include:
(1) The intended effective date of the Secretary's reassumption;
(2) The details and facts supporting the intended reassumption; and
(3) Instructions that explain the Tribe/Consortium's right to a formal hearing within 30 days of receipt of the notice.
§ 1000.1745
What is the earliest date on which a reassumption by the Secretary can be effective?
Except as provided in § 1000.1750, no program may be reassumed by the Secretary until 30 days after the final resolution of the hearing and any subsequent appeals to provide the Tribe/Consortium with an opportunity to take corrective action in response to any adverse final ruling.
§ 1000.1750
Does the Secretary have the authority to immediately reassume a program?
Yes, the Secretary may immediately reassume operation of a program and associated funding upon providing to the Tribe/Consortium written notice in which the Secretary makes a finding of:
(a) Imminent and substantial jeopardy and irreparable harm to a trust asset, a natural resource, or public health and safety that:
(1) Is caused by an act or omission by the Tribe/Consortium; and
(2) Arises out of a failure to carry out the terms of an applicable compact or funding agreement.
(b) If the Secretary reassumes operation of a program under this provision, the Secretary must provide the Tribe/Consortium with a hearing on the record not later than 10 days after the date of reassumption.
§ 1000.1755
What must a Tribe/Consortium do when a program is reassumed?
On the effective date of reassumption, the Tribe/Consortium must, at the request of the Secretary, deliver all property and equipment, and title thereto:
(a) That the Tribe/Consortium received for the program under the funding agreement; and
(b) That has a per item value in excess of $5,000, or as otherwise provided in the funding agreement.
§ 1000.1760
When must the Tribe/Consortium return funds to the Department?
The Tribe/Consortium must return unexpended funds, less “wind up costs,” that remain available to the Department as soon as practical after the effective date of the reassumption.
§ 1000.1765
May the Tribe/Consortium be reimbursed for actual and reasonable “wind up costs” incurred after the effective date of retrocession?
Yes, the Tribe/Consortium may be reimbursed for actual and reasonable “wind up costs” to the extent that funds are available.
§ 1000.1770
Is a Tribe's/Consortium's general right to negotiate a funding agreement adversely affected by a reassumption action?
A reassumption action taken by the Secretary does not affect the Tribe/Consortium's ability to negotiate a funding agreement for programs not affected by the reassumption.
§ 1000.1775
When will the Secretary return management of a reassumed program?
A reassumed program may be included in future funding agreements, but the Secretary may include conditions in the terms of the funding agreement to ensure that the circumstances that caused jeopardy to attach do not reoccur.

# Subpart N—Retrocession
§ 1000.1801
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart explains what happens when a Tribe/Consortium fully or partially and voluntarily returns a program to a bureau before the expiration of the term of the compact or funding agreement.
§ 1000.1805
Is a decision by a Tribe/Consortium not to include a program in a successor agreement considered a retrocession?
No, a decision by a Tribe/Consortium not to include a program in a successor agreement is not considered a retrocession.
§ 1000.1810
Who may retrocede a program in a funding agreement?
A Tribe/Consortium may retrocede a program. However, the right of a Consortium member to retrocede may be subject to the terms of the agreement among the members of the Consortium and §§ 1000.205 through 1000.235.
§ 1000.1815
How does a Tribe/Consortium retrocede a program?
The Tribe/Consortium must submit:
(a) A written notice to:
(1) The Office of Self-Governance for BIA programs; or
(2) The appropriate bureau for non-BIA programs; and
(b) A Tribal resolution or other official action of its governing body.
§ 1000.1820
When will the retrocession become effective?
The retrocession becomes effective on the date that is mutually agreed to by the parties in writing. In the absence of a mutually agreed upon effective date, the retrocession becomes effective on the earlier of:
(a) One year after the date the Tribe/Consortium submits its notice of retrocession; or
(b) The date the funding agreement expires.
§ 1000.1825
How will retrocession affect the Tribe's/Consortium's existing and future funding agreements?
Retrocession does not affect other parts of the funding agreement or funding agreements with other bureaus. A Tribe/Consortium may request to negotiate for and include retroceded programs in future funding agreements or through a self-determination contract.
§ 1000.1830
Does the Tribe/Consortium have to return funds used in the operation of a retroceded program?
The Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary must negotiate the amount of funds that have not been obligated by the Tribe/Consortium to be returned to the Secretary, less close out costs, for the Secretary's operation of the retroceded program. This amount must be based on such factors as the time remaining or functions remaining in the funding cycle or as provided in the funding agreement.
§ 1000.1835
Does the Tribe/Consortium have to return property used in the operation of a retroceded program?
On the effective date of any retrocession, the Tribe/Consortium must, at the option of the Secretary, return all property and equipment, and title thereto:
(a) That was acquired with funds under the funding agreement for the program being retroceded; and
(b) That has a per item current fair market value in excess of $5,000 at the time of the retrocession, or as otherwise provided in the funding agreement.
§ 1000.1840
What happens to a Tribe's/Consortium's mature contract status if it has retroceded a program that is also available for self-determination contracting?
If a Tribe/Consortium retrocedes operation of a program carried out under a title IV funding agreement, at the option of the Tribe/Consortium, the resulting self-determination contract is considered mature if the Tribe/Consortium meets the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 5304(h).
§ 1000.1845
How does retrocession affect a bureau's operation of the retroceded program?
The level of operation of the program will depend upon the amount of funding that is returned with the retrocession.

# Subpart O—Trust Evaluation
§ 1000.1901
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes how the trust responsibility of the United States is legally maintained through a system of trust evaluations when Tribes/Consortia perform trust PSFAs through funding agreements under the Act. It describes the principles and processes upon which trust evaluations by the Secretary will be based.
§ 1000.1905
Does the Act alter the trust responsibility of the United States to Indian Tribes and individuals under self-governance?
No, the Act does, however, permit a Tribe/Consortium to assume management responsibilities for trust assets and resources on its own behalf and on behalf of individual Indians. Under the Act, the Secretary has a trust responsibility to conduct annual trust evaluations of a Tribe's/Consortium's performance of trust PSFAs under a funding agreement to ensure that Tribal and individual trust assets and resources are managed in accordance with the legal principles and standards governing the performance of trust PSFAs set out in the funding agreement or as provided for by law.
§ 1000.1910
What are “trust resources” for the purposes of the trust evaluation process?
(a) Trust resources include property and interests in property:
(1) That are held in trust by the United States for the benefit of a Tribe or individual Indians; or
(2) That are subject to restrictions upon alienation.
(b) Trust assets include:
(1) Other assets, trust revenue, royalties, or rental, including natural resources, land, water, minerals, funds, property, or claims, and any intangible right or interest in any of the foregoing;
(2) Any other property, asset, or interest therein, or treaty right for which the United States is charged with a trust responsibility. For example, water rights and off-reservation treaty rights.
(c) This definition defines trust resources and trust assets for purposes of the trust evaluation process only.
§ 1000.1915
What are “trust PSFAs” for the purposes of the trust evaluation process?
Trust PSFAs are those programs, services, functions and activities necessary to the management of assets and resources held in trust by the United States for an Indian Tribe or individual Indian.
§ 1000.1920
Can a Tribe/Consortium request the Secretary to conduct an assessment of the status of the trust assets, resource, and PSFAs?
If the parties agree in writing and it is practical, the Secretary may arrange for a written assessment by the Department of the status of the trust resource and asset at the time of the transfer of the PSFAs or at a later time. The parties shall agree upon an estimate of time required to complete a baseline assessment. Upon completion of the assessment report by the Department, the Secretary's designated representative shall provide a
copy of the assessment to the Tribe/Consortium within 30 days.

# Annual Trust Evaluation
§ 1000.1925
What is a trust evaluation?
A trust evaluation is an annual review and evaluation of trust functions performed by a Tribe/Consortium to ensure that the functions are performed in accordance with trust standards as defined by Federal law. Trust evaluations address trust functions performed by the Tribe/Consortium on its own behalf as well as trust functions performed by the Tribe/Consortium for the benefit of individual Indians or Alaska Natives.
§ 1000.1930
How are trust evaluations conducted?
(a) Each year the Secretary's designated representative(s) will conduct an evaluation of trust PSFAs for each funding agreement. The Secretary's designated representative(s) will coordinate in writing with the leadership of the Tribe/Consortium, with a copy to the designated Tribe's/Consortium's representative(s), to arrange the evaluation of trust PSFAs and throughout the trust evaluation, including the written report required by § 1000.1940.
(b) This section describes the general framework for trust evaluations. However, each Tribe/Consortium may develop, with the appropriate bureau, an individualized trust evaluation method to allow for the Tribe's/Consortium's unique history, circumstances, trust resources and assets, and the terms and conditions of its funding agreement. An individualized trust evaluation must, at a minimum, contain the measures in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) To facilitate the trust evaluation so as to mitigate costs and maximize efficiency, each Tribe/Consortium must provide access to all records, plans, and other pertinent documents relevant to the trust PSFAs under review not otherwise available to the Department.
(d) The Secretary's designated representative(s) will:
(1) Review trust transactions;
(2) Conduct on-site inspections of trust resources and assets, as appropriate, at a time to be coordinated between the parties;
(3) Review compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements;
(4) Review compliance with the trust provisions and standards as may be negotiated and included in the funding agreement;
(5) Ensure that the same level of trust services is provided to individual Indians as would have been provided by the Secretary;
(6) Document deficiencies in the performance of trust PSFAs discovered during the trust evaluation in the final report which the Department will submit to the Tribe/Consortium pursuant to § 1000.1940; and
(7) Ensure the fulfillment of the Secretary's trust responsibility to Tribes and individual Indians by documenting the existence of:
(i) Systems of internal controls;
(ii) Trust standards; and
(iii) Safeguards against conflicts of interest in the performance of trust PSFAs.
§ 1000.1935
May the trust evaluation process be used for additional reviews?
Yes, if the parties agree in writing to such additional reviews.
§ 1000.1936
May the parties negotiate review methods for purposes of the trust evaluation?
Yes, unless review methods are otherwise provided by Federal law, the Secretary's designated representative will negotiate review methods at the request of the Tribe/Consortium for inclusion in a funding agreement as provided in § 1000.1930(b).
§ 1000.1940
What are the responsibilities of the Secretary's designated representative(s) after the annual trust evaluation?
The Secretary's representative(s) must prepare a written report documenting the results of the trust evaluation within 60 days of the Department's completion of an on-site and/or desk review.
(a) The Secretary's representative(s) will provide the Tribe/Consortium representative(s) with a copy of the report
for review and comment before finalization.
(b) The Secretary's representative(s) will attach to the report any Tribal/Consortium comments that the representative receives.
(c) The Secretary's representative(s) must respond to the Tribe's/Consortium's comments as part of the final trust evaluation report.
§ 1000.1945
Is the trust evaluation standard or process different when the trust resource or asset is held in trust for an individual Indian or Indian allottee?
No, Tribes/Consortia are under the same obligation as the Secretary to perform trust PSFAs and related activities in accordance with trust protection standards and principles whether managing Tribally or individually owned trust resources and assets. The Department's process for conducting the annual evaluation of Tribal/Consortium performance of trust PSFAs on behalf of individual Indians is the same as that used in evaluating performance of Tribal trust PSFAs.
§ 1000.1950
Does the annual trust review evaluation include a review of the Secretary's inherent Federal and retained operation trust PSFAs?
(a) When the annual trust evaluation by the Secretary reveals a deficient performance of trust PSFAs by a Tribe/Consortium due in part to the action or inaction of a bureau, it will trigger an evaluation by the Department of the Secretary's inherent Federal functions and any retained trust PSFAs pertaining to the bureau's action or inaction.
(b) The appropriate Department officials will be notified in writing by the Secretary's representative of the need for corrective action. A copy of such written notice shall be sent by the Secretary's representative to the Tribe/Consortium. The review of the Secretary's trust PSFAs shall be based on the standards in Federal law.
§ 1000.1955
What are the consequences of a finding of imminent jeopardy in the Secretary's annual trust evaluation?
(a) A finding of imminent jeopardy to a trust asset, natural resource, or public health and safety that is caused by an act or omission of the Tribe/Consortium and that arises out of a failure by the Tribe/Consortium to carry out the compact or funding agreement, triggers the Federal reassumption process (
see
subpart M of this part), unless the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section are met.
(b) The reassumption process will not be triggered if the Secretary's designated representative determines that the Tribe/Consortium:
(1) Can cure the conditions causing jeopardy within 60 days; and
(2) Will not cause significant loss, harm, or devaluation of a trust asset, natural resources, or the public health and safety.
§ 1000.1960
What if the Secretary's trust evaluation reveals problems that do not rise to the level of imminent jeopardy?
Where problems not rising to the level of imminent jeopardy are caused by Tribal/Consortium action or inaction, the conditions must be:
(a) Documented in the Department's annual trust evaluation report;
(b) Reported to the Secretary; and
(c) Reported in writing to:
(1) The governing body of the Tribe; and
(2) In the case of a Consortium, to the governing body of each Tribe on whose behalf the Consortium is performing the trust PSFAs.
§ 1000.1965
Who is responsible for taking corrective action?
The Tribe/Consortium is primarily responsible for identifying and implementing corrective actions for matters contained in the funding agreement, but the Department may also suggest possible corrective measures for Tribal/Consortium consideration.
§ 1000.1970
What are the requirements of the Department's review team report?
A report summarizing the results of the trust evaluation will be prepared
by the Secretary's designated representative(s) and copies provided to the Tribe/Consortium within the time frame specified in § 1000.1940. The annual trust evaluation report must:
(a) Be written objectively, concisely, and clearly;
(b) Present information accurately and fairly, including only relevant and adequately supported information, findings, and conclusions; and
(c) Include a written response from the Tribe/Consortium to the draft report provided to the Tribe/Consortium by the Secretary's representative(s).
§ 1000.1975
May the Department conduct more than one trust evaluation per Tribe per year?
(a) Yes, if the Department receives information that it concludes rises to the level of a threat of imminent jeopardy to a trust asset, natural resource, or the public health and safety, caused by an act or omission of a Tribe/Consortium and arises out of a failure to carry out a compact or funding agreement, the Department, as trustee, may conduct a preliminary investigation. The Department:
(1) Shall promptly contract the Tribe/Consortium to discuss the nature of the threat;
(2) Will follow up with notification to the Tribe/Consortium in writing, and
(3) May conduct an on-site inspection upon 2 days' advance written notice to the Tribe/Consortium.
(b) If the preliminary investigation shows that appropriate, sufficient data are present to indicate there may be imminent jeopardy, the Secretary's designated representative shall follow the reassumption procedures in accordance with subpart M of this part.

# Subpart P—Reports
§ 1000.2001
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes what reports are developed under self-governance by the Secretary and the Tribes/Consortia.
§ 1000.2005
Is the Secretary required to report on Self Governance?
Yes, on January 1 of each year, the Secretary will submit a report on self-governance to the Congress. The report will be based on:
(a) Information contained in funding agreements;
(b) Annual audit reports, and
(c) Data of the Secretary regarding the disposition of Federal funds.
§ 1000.2010
What will the Secretary's annual report to Congress contain?
The Secretary's report will:
(a) Identify:
(1) The relative costs and benefits of self-governance;
(2) With particularity, all funds that are specifically or functionally related to the provision by the Secretary of services and benefits to self-governance Indian Tribes and members of Indian Tribes;
(3) The funds transferred to each Tribe/Consortium and the corresponding reduction in the Federal employees and workload; and
(4) The funding formula for individual Tribal shares of all Central Office funds, together with the comments of affected Indian Tribes, developed for the report to Congress as required by 25 U.S.C. 5372(d).
(b) Include the separate views and comments of each Indian Tribe or Tribal organization; and
(c) Include a list of:
(1) All such programs that the Secretary determines, in consultation with Indian Tribes participating in self-governance, are eligible for negotiation to be included in a funding agreement at the request of a participating Indian Tribe;
(2) All such programs which Indian Tribes have formally requested to include in a funding agreement under section 403(c) (25 U.S.C. 5363(c)) due to the special geographic, historical, or cultural significance of the program to the Indian Tribe, indicating whether each request was granted or denied, and stating the grounds for any denial; and
(d) Include in this report, in the aggregate, a description of the internal controls that were inadequate, the technical assistance provided, and a description of Secretarial actions taken to address any remaining inadequate internal controls after the provision of
technical assistance and implementation of the plan required by 25 U.S.C. 5324(q)(1).
(e) Programmatic targets established by the Secretary, after consulting with participating Tribes/Consortia, to encourage bureaus of the Department, other than the BIA, the BIE, the BTFA, or the Office of Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs to ensure that an appropriate portion of those programs are available to be included in funding agreements.
§ 1000.2011
Is the Secretary required to review programs of the Department other than BIA, BIE, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, and the BTFA?
Yes. In order to optimize opportunities for including non-BIA programs in agreements with Tribes/Consortia participating in self-governance under the Act, the Secretary shall review all non-BIA programs without regard to the agency or office concerned.
§ 1000.2012
Is the Secretary required to annually publish information under this subpart in the Federal Register?
Yes, the Secretary shall annually review and publish in the
Federal Register,
after consulting with Tribes/Consortia participating in self-governance, revised lists under § 1000.2010(c)(1) and (2) and programmatic targets under § 1000.2010(e), and make such information available to all participating Tribes/Consortia.
§ 1000.2015
Must the Secretary seek comment on the report from Tribes/Consortia before submitting it to Congress?
Yes, before the report of the Secretary is submitted to Congress, it must be distributed by the Secretary to Tribes/Consortia for comment. The comment period must not be less than 30 days.
§ 1000.2020
What may the Tribe's/Consortium's annual report on self-governance address?
(a) The Tribe's/Consortium's annual self-governance report may address:
(1) A list of unmet Tribal needs in order of priority;
(2) The approved, year-end Tribal/Consortium budget for the programs and services funded under self-governance, summarized, and annotated as the Tribe/Consortium may deem appropriate;
(3) Identification of any reallocation of trust programs;
(4) Program and service delivery highlights, which may include a narrative of specific program redesign or other accomplishments, or benefits attributed to self-governance; and
(5) At the Tribe's/Consortium's option, a summary of the highlights of the report referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and other pertinent information the Tribe/Consortium may wish to report.
(b) The report submitted under this section is intended to provide the Department with information necessary to meet its Congressional reporting responsibilities and to fulfill its responsibility as an advocate for self-governance. The report is not intended to be burdensome, and Tribes/Consortia are encouraged to design and present the report in a brief and concise manner.
§ 1000.2025
Are there other data submissions or reports that Tribes/Consortia may be requested to submit?
Yes, Tribes/Consortia may be requested to submit data for the Secretary to determine allocation of funds to be awarded under a funding agreement.
§ 1000.2030
Are Tribes/Consortia required to submit Single Audit Act reports?
Yes. The Single Agency Audit Act, 31 U.S.C. 7501
et seq.,
and subparts E and F of 2 CFR part 200 applies to a funding agreement under this part. The Tribe/Consortium must provide to the designated official an annual single audit report as prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 7501,
et seq.
§ 1000.2035
Is there an exemption available for the requirement to submit Single Audit Act reports?
Yes. In accordance with 2 CFR 200.501(d), a non-Federal entity that expends less than the amount as published by OMB during the entity's fiscal year in Federal awards is exempt
from submitting an annual single audit report for that year.
§ 1000.2040
Are Tribes/Consortia required to maintain reports and records in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5305?
Yes, Tribes/Consortia are required to maintain reports and records in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5305.

# Subpart Q—Operational Provisions
§ 1000.2101
How can a Tribe/Consortium hire a Federal employee to help implement a funding agreement?
If a Tribe/Consortium chooses to hire a Federal employee, it can use, in addition to any other available options, one of the arrangements listed in this section:
(a) The Tribe/Consortium can use its own personnel hiring procedures. Federal employees hired by the Tribe/Consortium are separated from Federal service.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium can “direct hire” a Federal employee as a Tribal/Consortium employee. The employee will be separated from Federal service and work for the Tribe/Consortium, but maintain a negotiated Federal benefit package that is paid for by the Tribe/Consortium out of funding agreement program funds; or
(c) The Tribe/Consortium can negotiate an agreement under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act, 5 U.S.C. 3371 through 3375, 25 U.S.C. 323, 25 U.S.C. 48, or other applicable Federal law. The employee will remain a Federal employee during the term of the agreement.
§ 1000.2105
Can a Tribe/Consortium employee be detailed to a Federal service position?
Yes, under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act, 5 U.S.C. 3371 through 3375, 25 U.S.C. 323, 25 U.S.C. 48, or other applicable law, when permitted by the Secretary.
§ 1000.2110
How does the Freedom of Information Act apply?
(a) Access to records maintained by the Secretary is governed by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and other applicable Federal law.
(b) Unless the Tribe/Consortium specifies otherwise in a funding agreement, records of the Tribe/Consortium shall not be considered Federal records for the purpose of the Freedom of Information Act.
(c) The Freedom of Information Act does not apply to records maintained solely by Tribes/Consortia.
§ 1000.2115
How does the Privacy Act apply?
Unless the Tribe/Consortium specifies otherwise, records of the Tribe/Consortium shall not be considered Federal records for the purposes of the Privacy Act.
§ 1000.2120
What audit requirements must a Tribe/Consortium follow?
The Single Agency Audit Act, 31 U.S.C. 7501
et seq.,
and subparts E and F of 2 CFR part 200 apply to a funding agreement under this part. The Tribe/Consortium must provide to the designated official an annual single audit as prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 7501,
et seq.
§ 1000.2125
How do OMB circulars and the Act apply to funding agreements?
(a) A Tribe/Consortium shall apply cost principles under the applicable OMB circular, except as modified by:
(1) Any provision of law, including 25 U.S.C. 5325; or
(2) Any exemptions or exceptions granted by OMB.
(b) In any circumstances where the provisions of Federal statutes or this part differ from the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, the provisions of the Federal statutes or this part govern. This includes the provisions of Public Law 93-638, including 25 U.S.C. 5325 and 5365(c).
§ 1000.2130
How much time does the Federal Government have to make a claim against a Tribe/Consortium relating to any disallowance of costs, based on an audit?
Any claim by the Federal Government against a Tribe/Consortium relating to the disallowance of costs for funds received under a funding agreement based on any audit under title IV (other than those relating to a criminal offense) shall be subject to the 365-day period set forth in 25 U.S.C. 5325(f), as prescribed by 25 U.S.C. 5365(c)(3).
§ 1000.2135
Does a Tribe/Consortium have additional ongoing requirements to maintain minimum standards for Tribe/Consortium management systems?
(a) Yes, for a Tribe/Consortium required to perform an annual audit under the Single Audit Act and subparts E and F of 2 CFR part 200, the Tribe/Consortium must maintain management systems that are determined to be adequate by an independent audit.
(b) For a Tribe/Consortium that is not required to perform an annual audit under the Single Audit Act, the financial management systems, including records documenting compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the funding agreement, must be sufficient to permit the preparation of reports required by general and program-specific terms and conditions; and the tracing of funds to a level of expenditures adequate to establish that such funds have been used according to the Federal statutes, regulations, and the requirements of the funding agreement.
(c) As prescribed by subparts E and F of 2 CFR part 200, every Tribe/Consortium must establish and maintain effective internal controls over funds included in a funding agreement that provide reasonable assurances that the Tribe/Consortium is managing the funds in compliance with Federal statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the funding agreement.
§ 1000.2140
Are there any restrictions on how funds awarded to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement may be spent?
Yes, funds awarded to a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement may be spent only for costs associated with PSFAs subject to the funding agreement.
§ 1000.2145
What standard applies to a Tribe's/Consortium's management of funds awarded under a funding agreement?
Funds awarded a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement, including advance payments, shall be managed by the Tribe/Consortium using the prudent investment standard, provided that the Secretary shall not be liable for any investment losses of funds managed by the Tribe/Consortium that are not otherwise guaranteed or insured by the Federal Government. The prudent investment standard requires the exercise of reasonable care, skill, and caution, and is to be applied to investments not in isolation but in the context of the investment portfolio and as part of an overall investment strategy, which should incorporate risk and return objectives reasonably suitable to the Tribe/Consortium. In making and implementing investment decisions, the Tribe/Consortium has a duty to diversify the investment, unless, under the circumstances, it is prudent not to do so. In addition, the Tribe/Consortium must:
(a) Conform to fundamental fiduciary duties of loyalty and impartiality;
(b) Act with prudence in deciding whether and how to delegate authority and in the selection and supervision of agents; and
(c) Incur only costs that are reasonable in amount and appropriate to the investment responsibilities of the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.2150
How may interest or investment income that accrues on funds awarded under a funding agreement be used?
(a) Interest or income earned on investments or deposits of awards made under a funding agreement may be:
(1) Used for any governmental purpose approved by the Tribe/Consortium; or
(2) Used to provide expanded services under the funding agreement and to support some or all of the costs of investment services.
(b) The retention of interest or investment income under paragraph (a) of this section shall not diminish the amount of funds a Tribe/Consortium is entitled to receive under a funding agreement in the year the interest or income is earned or in a subsequent fiscal year.
§ 1000.2155
Can a Tribe/Consortium retain savings from programs?
Yes, notwithstanding any provision of an appropriations Act, the Tribe/Consortium may retain savings for each fiscal year during which a funding
agreement is in effect. A Tribe/Consortium must use any savings that it realizes under a funding agreement, including a construction contract:
(a) To provide additional services or benefits under the funding agreement; or
(b) As carryover; and
(c) For purposes of this subpart only, programs administered by BIA using appropriations made to other Federal agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Transportation, will be treated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1000.2160
Can a Tribe/Consortium carry over funds not spent during the term of the funding agreement?
(a) Yes. Notwithstanding any provision of an appropriations Act, all funds paid to a Tribe/Consortium in accordance with a compact or funding agreement shall remain available until expended.
(b) If a Tribe/Consortium elects to carry over funding from one year to the next, the carryover shall not diminish the amount of funds the Tribe/Consortium is entitled to receive under a funding agreement in that fiscal year or any subsequent fiscal year.
(c) A Tribe/Consortium may elect to carry over funding from one year to the next without any additional justification or document necessary for expenditure.
§ 1000.2165
After a non-BIA funding agreement has been executed and the funds transferred to a Tribe/Consortium, can a bureau request the return of unexpended funds?
The non-BIA bureau may request the return of unexpended funds already transferred to a Tribe/Consortium only under the following circumstances:
(a) Retrocession;
(b) Reassumption;
(c) Construction, when there are special legal requirements; or
(d) As otherwise provided for in the funding agreement.
§ 1000.2170
How can a person or group appeal a decision or contest an action related to a program operated by a Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement?
(a)
BIA Programs.
A person or group who is aggrieved by an action of a Tribe/Consortium with respect to programs that are provided by the Tribe/Consortium under a funding agreement must follow Tribal administrative procedures.
(b)
Non-BIA Programs.
Procedures will vary depending on the program. Aggrieved parties should initially contact the local program administrator (the Indian program contact). Thereafter, appeals will follow the relevant bureau's appeal procedures.
§ 1000.2175
Must Tribes/Consortia comply with the Secretarial approval requirements of 25 U.S.C. 81; 82a; and 476 regarding professional and attorney contracts?
No, for the period that an agreement entered into under this part is in effect, the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 81, 82a, and 476, do not apply to attorney and other professional contracts by participating Tribes/Consortia.
§ 1000.2180
Are funds awarded under a funding agreement non-Federal funds for the purpose of meeting matching or cost participation requirements?
(a) Yes, in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 5363(j), all funds provided under funding agreements shall be treated as non-Federal funds for purposes of meeting matching requirements under any other Federal law.
(b) Alternatively, a Tribe/Consortium may elect under 25 U.S.C. 5363(
l
) to incorporate 25 U.S.C. 5325(j) in their funding agreement for the purpose of meeting matching or cost participating requirements under other Federal and non-Federal programs.
§ 1000.2185
Does Indian preference apply to services, activities, programs, and functions performed under a funding agreement?
Yes, in accordance with section 25 U.S.C. 5307(b) and (c), as amended, Tribal law governs Indian preference in
employment in contracting and subcontracting in performance of a funding agreement.
§ 1000.2190
Do the wage and labor standards in the Davis-Bacon Act apply to Tribes and Tribal Consortia?
No, wage and labor standards of the Davis-Bacon Act, 40 U.S.C. 3141 through 3144, 3146 and 3147, do not apply to employees of Tribes and Tribal Consortia. Davis-Bacon wage and labor standards do apply to all other laborers and mechanics employed by contractors and subcontractors of a Tribe/Consortium in the construction, alteration, and repair (including painting or redecorating) of buildings or other facilities in connection with a funding agreement.
§ 1000.2195
Can a Tribe/Consortium use Federal supply sources in the performance of a funding agreement?
Yes. A Tribe/Consortium and its employees may use Federal supply sources (including lodging, airline, interagency motor pool vehicles, and other means of transportation) or other Federal resources (including supplies, services and resources available to the Secretary under any procurement contracts in which the Department is eligible to participate), to the same extent as if the Tribe/Consortium were a Federal agency. While implementation of this provision is the responsibility of the General Services Administration, the Department shall assist the Tribes/Consortia to resolve any barriers to full implementation that may arise to the fullest extent possible.
§ 1000.2200
Does the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901) apply to a BIA funding Agreement?
Yes. The Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901) applies to a BIA funding agreement.
§ 1000.2205
Does the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3901) apply to a non-BIA program funding agreement?
Yes, unless restricted by a funding agreement, the Prompt Payment Act shall apply to a non-BIA funding agreement.
§ 1000.2210
Is a Tribe/Consortium obligated to continue performance under a compact or funding agreement if the Secretary does not transfer sufficient funds?
A Tribe/Consortium shall not be obligated to continue performance that requires an expenditure of funds in excess of the amount of funds transferred under a compact or funding agreement. If at any time the Tribe/Consortium has reason to believe that the total amount provided for a specific activity under a compact or funding agreement is insufficient, the Tribe/Consortium shall provide reasonable notice of such insufficiency to the Secretary. If, after notice, the Secretary does not increase the amount of funds transferred under the funding agreement, the Tribe/Consortium may suspend performance of the activity until such time as additional funds are transferred. Nothing in 25 U.S.C. 5368(
l
) reduces any programs, services, or funds of, or provided to, another Tribe/Consortium.

# Subpart R—Appeals
§ 1000.2301
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart prescribes the process Tribes/Consortia may use to resolve disputes with the Department arising before or after execution of a funding agreement or compact and certain other disputes related to self-governance.
§ 1000.2305
How must disputes be handled?
(a) The Department encourages its bureaus to seek all means of dispute resolution before the Tribe/Consortium files a formal appeal(s).
(b) Disputes shall be addressed through government-to-government discourse. This discourse must be respectful of government-to-government relationships and relevant Federal-Tribal agreements, treaties, judicial decisions, and policies pertaining to Indian Tribes, including, but not limited to, such applicable principles described in subpart I.
(c) All disputes arising under this rule, including, but not limited to, disputes related to decisions described in
§ 1000.2345, may use non-binding informal alternative dispute resolution, such as an informal conference or assistance of the Department's Office of Collaborative Action and Dispute Resolution (CADR), at the option of the Tribe/Consortium. The Tribe/Consortium may ask for this alternative dispute resolution any time before the issuance of an initial decision of a formal appeal. The appeals timetable will be suspended while alternative dispute resolution is pending.
§ 1000.2310
Does a Tribe/Consortium have any options besides an appeal?
Yes, the Tribe/Consortium may request a non-binding alternative dispute resolution process—without the need for a formal appeal. Or, the Tribe/Consortium may, in lieu of filing an administrative appeal under this subpart, file an action in an appropriate Federal court under 25 U.S.C. 5331, or any other applicable law.
§ 1000.2315
What is the Secretary's burden of proof for appeals in this subpart?
As required by sections 25 U.S.C. 5366(d) and 5375, in any administrative action, appeal, or civil action for judicial review of any decision made by the Secretary under this title, the Secretary shall have the burden of proof:
(a) To demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence the validity of the grounds for a reassumption under 25 U.S.C. 5366(b);
(b) To clearly demonstrate the validity of the grounds for rejecting a final offer made under 25 U.S.C. 5366(c); and
(c) Except as provided in 25 U.S.C. 5366(d), to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence the validity of the grounds for a decision made and the consistency of the decision with the requirements and policies of the Act.

# Informal Conference
§ 1000.2320
How does a Tribe/Consortium request an informal conference?
The Tribe/Consortium shall file its request for an informal conference with the office of the person whose decision it is appealing, within 30 days of the day it receives the decision.
(a) The Tribe/Consortium may either hand-deliver the request for an informal conference to that person's office, email the request, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b) If the Tribe/Consortium mails the request, it will be considered filed on the date the Tribe/Consortium mailed it by certified mail. If the Tribe/Consortium emails the request, it will be presumed received on the next business day following transmission from the Tribe/Consortium.
(c) The document should be clearly identified as “Request for Informal Conference”.
§ 1000.2325
How is an informal conference held?
For all purposes relating to these informal conference procedures, the parties are the designated representatives of the Tribe/Consortium and the bureau.
(a) The informal conference shall be held within 30 days of the date the request was received, unless the parties agree on another date.
(b) If possible, at the option of the Tribe/Consortium, the informal conference will be held at the Tribe's/Consortium's office. If the meeting cannot be held at the Tribe's/Consortium's office, the parties must agree on an alternative meeting place or forum, including but not limited to telephonic or virtual meeting forums. If the alternative meeting place is more than fifty miles from the Tribe's/Consortium's office, the Secretary must arrange to pay transportation costs and per diem for incidental expenses to allow for adequate representation of the Tribe/Consortium.
(c) The informal conference shall be conducted by a designated representative of the Secretary.
(d) Only the parties may make presentations at the informal conference.
(e) The informal conference is not a hearing on the record. Nothing said during an informal conference may be used by either party in litigation.
§ 1000.2330
What happens after the informal conference?
(a) Within 10 business days of the informal conference, the person who conducted the informal conference shall
prepare and mail to the Tribe/Consortium a brief summary of the informal conference. The summary must include any agreements reached or changes from the initial position of the bureau or the Tribe/Consortium.
(b) Every summary of an informal conference must contain the following language:
Within 30 days of the receipt of the summary from the informal conference, you may file an appeal of the initial decision of the Department of the Interior agency in accordance with subpart R of 25 CFR part 1000. Alternatively, you may file an action in Federal court pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5331.
(c) If in its judgment no agreement was reached, the Tribe/Consortium may choose to appeal the initial decision, as modified by any changes made as a result of the informal conference, under this subpart.

# Post-Award Disputes
§ 1000.2335
How may a Tribe/Consortium appeal a decision made after the funding agreement or compact or an amendment to a funding agreement or compact has been signed?
With the exception of certain decisions concerning immediate reassumption (
see
§§ 1000.2405 through 1000.2430), the Tribe/Consortium may appeal post-award administrative decisions to the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA).
§ 1000.2340
What statutes and regulations govern resolution of disputes concerning signed funding agreements or compacts (and any signed amendments) that are appealed to the CBCA?
25 U.S.C. 5331 and the regulations at 25 CFR 900.216 through 900.230 apply to disputes concerning signed funding agreements and compacts (and any signed amendments), that are appealed to the CBCA, except that any references to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services are inapplicable. For purposes of such appeals:
(a) The terms “contract” and “self-determination contract” mean compacts and funding agreements entered into under the Act; and
(b) The term “Tribe” means “Tribe/Consortium”.

# Pre-Award Disputes
§ 1000.2345
What decisions may a Tribe/Consortium appeal under §§ 1000.2345 through 1000.2395?
Decisions that a Tribe/Consortium may appeal include, but are not limited to:
(a) A decision to reject a final offer, or a portion thereof, under 25 U.S.C. 5366(c);
(b) A decision to reject a proposed amendment to a compact or funding agreement, or a portion thereof, under 25 U.S.C. 5366(c);
(c) A decision that provisions in a retained funding agreement and/or compact are directly contrary to any express provision of the Act;
(d) A decision to reassume a compact or funding agreement, in whole or in part, under 25 U.S.C. 5366(b), except for immediate reassumptions under 25 U.S.C. 5366(b)(3);
(e) A decision to reject a final construction project proposal, or a portion thereof, under 25 U.S.C. 5367(g) and subpart K of this part; and
(f) For construction project agreements carried out under 25 U.S.C. 5367, a decision to reject project planning documents, design documents, or proposed amendments submitted by a Tribe/Consortium under 25 U.S.C. 5367(h)(1) and subpart K of this part.
§ 1000.2350
What decisions may not be appealed under §§ 1000.2345 through 1000.2395?
Decisions that may not appealed under §§ 1000.2345 through 1000.2395 shall be limited to:
(a) Disputes arising under the terms of a compact, funding agreement, or construction project agreement that has been awarded;
(b) Disputes arising from immediate reassumptions under 25 U.S.C. 5366(b)(3) and § 1000.1750 which are covered under §§ 1000.2405 through 1000.2430;
(c) Decisions relating to planning and negotiation grants (subparts C and D of this part) and certain discretionary grants not awarded under title IV (25 CFR part 2);
(d) Decisions regarding requests for waivers of regulations (subpart J of this part);
(e) Decisions regarding construction (subpart K of this part) addressed in § 1000.1455; and
(f) Decisions under any other statute, such as the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act (
see
43 CFR part 2).
§ 1000.2351
To Whom may a Tribe/Consortia appeal a decision under § 1000.2345?
(a)
Filing an appeal.
A Tribe/Consortium may elect to file a dispute under § 1000.2345 with either the bureau head/Assistant Secretary or IBIA in accordance with this subpart. However, the Tribe/Consortium may not avail itself to both paths for the same dispute.
(b)
Bureau head/Assistant Secretary appeal.
Unless the initial decision being appealed is one that was made by the bureau head (those appeals are forwarded to the appropriate Assistant Secretary—
see
§ 1000.2360(c), of this subpart), the bureau head will decide initial appeals relating to these pre-award matters, that include but are not limited to disputes regarding:
(1) Eligibility to participate in self-governance;
(2) Decisions declining to provide requested information as addressed in subpart H;
(3) Allocations of program funds when a dispute arises between a Consortium and a withdrawing Tribe; and
(4) Inherently Federal functions and associated funding.
(c)
IBIA.
The Tribe/Consortium may choose to forego the administrative appeal through the bureau or the Assistant Secretary, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and instead appeal directly to IBIA.
§ 1000.2355
How does a Tribe/Consortium know where and when to file an appeal?
Every decision in any of the areas listed in § 1000.2345 must contain information which shall tell the Tribe/Consortium where and when to file the Tribe's/Consortium's appeal. Each decision shall include the following statement:
Within 30 days of the receipt of this decision, you may request non-binding informal alternative dispute resolution, such as an informal conference under § 1000.2320, or file an appeal of the initial decision of the Department in accordance with subpart R of this part. Alternatively, you may file an action in Federal court pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5331.
§ 1000.2357
Which officials is the appropriate bureau head or Assistant Secretary for purposes of subpart R?
(a) Table 1 to this paragraph (a) indicates the appropriate bureau head, for purposes of subpart R, to whom a Tribe/Consortium may file its initial request for appeal when exercising its appeal rights to the bureau head/Assistant Secretary under § 1000.2351 for any BIA program:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Bureau whose initial decision is being
appealed
Appropriate bureau head
BIA
Director, BIA.
BIE
Director, BIE.
BTFA
Director, BTFA.
The Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or OSG
The Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.
(b) The appropriate Assistant Secretary for any BIA Program, for purposes of § 1000.2370, shall be the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.
(c) If a Tribe/Consortium elects to exercise its appeal rights to the bureau head/Assistant Secretary under § 1000.2351 for any non-BIA Programs then:
(1) The appropriate bureau head, for purposes of this subpart R, shall be the director of the appropriate bureau which issued the initial adverse decision, including the commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation.
(2) The appropriate Assistant Secretary, for purposes of this subpart R, shall be the Assistant Secretary who oversees the appropriate non-BIA bureau which issued the initial adverse decision.

# Appeals to Bureau Head/Assistant Secretary
§ 1000.2360
When and how must a Tribe/Consortium appeal an adverse pre-award decision to the bureau head/Assistant Secretary?
(a) If a Tribe/Consortium wishes to exercise its appeal rights to the bureau head/Assistant Secretary under § 1000.2351, it must make a written request for review to the appropriate bureau head within 30 days of receiving the initial adverse decision or the conclusion of any non-binding informal alternative dispute resolution process. In addition, the Tribe/Consortium may request the opportunity to have a meeting with appropriate bureau personnel in an effort to clarify the matter under dispute before a formal decision by the bureau head.
(b) The written request for review should include a statement describing its reasons for a review, with any supporting documentation, or indicate that such a statement or documentation will be submitted within 30 days. A copy of the request must also be sent to the Director of the OSG.
(c) If the initial decision was made by the bureau head, any appeal shall be directed to the appropriate Assistant Secretary. If a Tribe does not request a review within 30 days of receipt of the decision, the initial decision will be final for the Department.
§ 1000.2365
When must the bureau head (or appropriate Assistant Secretary) issue a final decision in the pre-award appeal?
Within 30 days of receiving the request for review and the statement of reasons described in § 1000.2360, the bureau head or, where applicable, the appropriate Assistant Secretary must:
(a) Issue a written final decision stating the reasons for the decision; and
(b) Send the decision to the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.2370
When and how will the Assistant Secretary respond to an appeal by a Tribe/Consortium?
The appropriate Assistant Secretary will decide an appeal of any initial decision made by a bureau head (
see
§ 1000.2360). If the Tribe/Consortium has appealed the bureau's initial adverse decision of the bureau to the bureau head and the bureau head's decision on initial appeal is contrary to the Tribe's/Consortium's request for relief, or the bureau head fails to make a decision within 30 days of receipt by the bureau of the Tribe's/Consortium's initial request for review and any accompanying statement and documentation, the Tribe's/Consortium's appeal will be sent automatically to the appropriate Assistant Secretary for decision. The Assistant Secretary must either concur with the bureau head's decision or issue a separate decision within 60 days of receipt by the bureau of the Tribe's/Consortium's initial request for review and any accompanying statement and documentation. The decision of the Assistant Secretary is final for the Department.

# Appeals to IBIA
§ 1000.2375
When and how must a Tribe/Consortium appeal an adverse pre-award decision to the IBIA?
(a) If a Tribe/Consortium wishes to exercise its appeal rights to the IBIA under § 1000.2351, it must file a notice of appeal to the IBIA within 30 days of receiving the initial decision or the conclusion of any non-binding informal alternative dispute resolution process.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium may either hand-deliver the notice of appeal to the IBIA, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Tribe/Consortium mails the Notice of Appeal it will be considered filed on the date the Tribe/Consortium mailed it by certified mail. The Tribe/Consortium should mail the notice of appeal to: Interior Board of Indian Appeals, Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 N Quincy Street, Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203.
(c) The Notice of Appeal must include:
(1) A statement describing the Tribe's/Consortium's reasons for a review (including why the Tribe/Consortium thinks the initial decision is wrong and briefly identify the issues involved in the appeal);
(2) Any supporting documentation;
(3) If the Tribe/Consortium's Notice of Appeal does not include the items in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section,
an indication that such a statement or documentation will be submitted within 30 days; and
(4) A statement whether the Tribe/Consortium wants a hearing on the record, or whether the Tribe/Consortium wants to waive its right to a hearing.
(d) The Tribe/Consortium must serve a copy of the notice of appeal upon the official whose decision it is appealing. A copy of the notice of appeal must also be sent to the Director of the OSG. The Tribe/Consortium must certify to the IBIA that it has done so.
(e) The authorized representative of the Secretary will be considered a party to all appeals filed with the IBIA under the Act.
§ 1000.2380
What happens after a Tribe/Consortium files an appeal?
(a) Within 5 days of receiving the Tribe's/Consortium's notice of appeal, the IBIA will decide whether the appeal falls under § 1000.2345. If so, the Tribe/Consortium is entitled to a hearing.
(b) If the IBIA cannot make that decision based on the information included in the notice of appeal, the IBIA may ask for additional statements from the Tribe/Consortium, or from the appropriate Federal agency. If the IBIA asks for more statements, it will make its decision within 5 days of receiving those statements.
(c) If the IBIA decides that the Tribe/Consortium is not entitled to a hearing or if the Tribe/Consortium has waived its right to a hearing on the record, the IBIA will dismiss the appeal and inform the Tribe/Consortium that it is not entitled to a hearing or has waived its right to a hearing.
§ 1000.2385
What procedures apply to Interior Board of Indian Appeals (IBIA) proceedings?
The IBIA may use the procedures set forth in 43 CFR 4.22 through 4.27 as a guide.
§ 1000.2386
What regulations govern resolution of disputes that are appealed to the IBIA?
To the extent not inconsistent with this subpart, the regulations at §§ 900.159 through 900.169 of this title apply to disputes that are appealed to the IBIA, except that any references to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services are inapplicable. For purposes of such appeals:
(a) The terms “contract” and “self-determination contract” mean compacts and funding agreements entered into under the Act; and
(b) The term “Tribe” means “Tribe/Consortium.”
§ 1000.2390
Will an appeal adversely affect the Tribe's/Consortium's rights in other compact, funding negotiations, or construction project agreement?
No, a pending appeal will not adversely affect or prevent the negotiation or award of another compact, funding agreement, or construction project agreement.
§ 1000.2395
Will the decision on appeal be available for the public to review?
Yes, the Secretary shall publish all final decisions from the Administrative Law Judge (ALJs) and IBIA under this subpart. Decisions can be found on the Department's website.

# Appeals of an Immediate Reassumption of a Self-Governance Program
§ 1000.2405
What happens in the case of an immediate reassumption under 25 U.S.C. 5366(b)?
If the Secretary immediately reassumes a program under § 1000.1750, the Secretary must comply with §§ 1000.2410 through 1000.2430.
§ 1000.2410
Will there be a hearing?
Yes, unless the Tribe/Consortium waives its right to a hearing in writing. The Deputy Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals must appoint an ALJ to hold a hearing.
(a) The hearing must be held within 10 days of the date of the notice referred to in § 1000.1750 unless the Tribe/Consortium agrees to a later date.
(b) If possible, the hearing will be held at the office of the Tribe/Consortium. The parties may agree to an alternative meeting place or forum, including but not limited to telephonic or virtual meeting forums. If the hearing is held more than 50 miles from the
office of the Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must arrange to pay transportation costs and per diem for incidental expenses. This will allow for adequate representation of the Tribe/Consortium.
§ 1000.2415
What happens after the hearing?
(a) Within 30 days after the end of the hearing or any post-hearing briefing schedule established by the ALJ, the ALJ must send all parties a recommended decision by certified mail, return receipt requested. The recommended decision shall contain the ALJ's findings of fact and conclusions of law on all the issues. The recommended decision must also state that the Tribe/Consortium has the right to object to the recommended decision.
(b) The recommended decision must contain the following statement:
Within 15 days of the receipt of this recommended decision, you may file an objection to the recommended decision with the IBIA under 25 CFR 1000.2420. An appeal to the IBIA under shall be filed at the following address: Interior Board of Indian Appeals, Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 N Quincy Street, Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203. You shall serve copies of your notice of appeal on the Secretary of the Interior, and on the official whose decision is being appealed. You shall certify to the IBIA that you have served these copies. If neither party files an objection to the recommended decision within 15 days, the recommended decision will become final.
§ 1000.2420
Is the recommended decision always final?
No, any party to the appeal may file precise and specific written objections to the recommended decision, or any other comments, within 15 days of receiving the recommended decision. The objecting party must serve a copy of its objections on the other party. The recommended decision will become final 15 days after the Tribe/Consortium receives the ALJ's recommended decision, unless a written statement of objection is filed with the IBIA during the 15-day period. If no party files a written statement of objections within 15 days, the recommended decision will become final.
§ 1000.2425
If a Tribe/Consortium objects to the recommended decision, what action will the IBIA take?
(a) The IBIA has 15 days from the date the Secretary receives timely written objections to modify, adopt, or reverse the recommended decision. If the IBIA does not modify or reverse the recommended decision during that time, the recommended decision automatically becomes final.
(b) When reviewing the recommended decision, the IBIA may consider and decide all issues properly raised by any party to the appeal, based on the record.
(c) The decision of the IBIA must:
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Specify the findings of fact or conclusions of law that are modified or reversed;
(3) Give reasons for the decision, based on the record; and
(4) State that the decision is final for the Department.
§ 1000.2430
Will an immediate reassumption appeal adversely affect the Tribe's/Consortium's rights in other self-governance negotiations?
No, a pending appeal will not adversely affect or prevent the negotiation or award of another compact, funding agreement, or construction project agreement.

# Equal Access to Justice Act
§ 1000.2435
Does the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) apply to appeals under this subpart?
Yes. EAJA claims against the Department will be heard under 48 CFR 6101.30, 6101.31 (CBCA) and 43 CFR 4.602, 4.604 through 4.628 (Department) and under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 and 28 U.S.C. 2412.

# Subpart S—Conflicts of Interest
§ 1000.2501
Is a Tribe/Consortium required to have policies in place to address conflicts of interest?
Yes.
(a) A Tribe/Consortium participating in self-governance must ensure that internal measures are in place to address,
pursuant to Tribal law and procedures, conflicts of interest in the administration of programs carried out under a compact and funding agreement.
(b) The Tribe/Consortium and the Secretary may agree that using the Tribe's/Consortium's own written code of ethics satisfies the objectives of the personal conflicts and organizational conflicts provisions of this subpart, in whole or in part.
(c) When the Secretary and the Tribe/Consortium agree to use the Tribe's/Consortium's written codes or measures, the funding agreement will reflect that and the agreed-upon provisions shall be followed, rather than the related provisions of this subpart.
§ 1000.2505
What is an organizational conflict of interest?
(a) An organizational conflict of interest arises when, in the administration of programs performed under a compact or funding agreement subject to this part, there is a direct conflict between the financial interests of the Tribe/Consortium and:
(1) The financial interests of beneficial owners of Indian trust resources;
(2) The financial interests of the United States relating to trust resources, trust acquisitions, or lands conveyed or to be conveyed under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.;
or
(3) An express statutory obligation of the United States to third parties. This section only applies if the conflict was not addressed when the funding agreement was first negotiated.
(b) This section only applies where the financial interests of the Tribe/Consortium are significant enough to impair the Tribe's/Consortium's objectivity in carrying out the funding agreement, or a portion of the funding agreement.
§ 1000.2510
What must a Tribe/Consortium do if an organizational conflict of interest arises under a funding agreement?
This section only applies if the conflict was not addressed when the funding agreement was first negotiated. When a Tribe/Consortium becomes aware of an organizational conflict of interest, the Tribe/Consortium must immediately disclose the conflict to the Secretary.
§ 1000.2515
When must a Tribe/Consortium regulate its employees or subcontractors to avoid a personal conflict of interest?
A Tribe/Consortium must maintain written standards of conduct, pursuant to Tribal law and procedures, to govern officers, employees, and agents (including subcontractors) engaged in functions related to the management of trust assets performed under a compact and funding agreement subject to this part.
§ 1000.2520
What types of personal conflicts of interest involving Tribal officers, employees, or subcontractors would have to be regulated by a Tribe/Consortium?
The Tribe/Consortium must ensure that internal measures are in place that specify that no officer, employee, or agent (including a subcontractor) of the Tribe/Consortium reviews a trust transaction in which that person has a financial or employment interest that conflicts with that of the trust beneficiary, whether the beneficiary is the Tribe/Consortium or an allottee. Interests arising from membership in, or employment by, a Tribe/Consortium or rights to share in a Tribal claim need not be regulated.
§ 1000.2525
What personal conflicts of interest must the standards of conduct regulate?
The personal conflicts of interest standards, established pursuant to Tribal law and procedures, must:
(a) Prohibit an officer, employee, or agent (including a subcontractor) from participating in the review, analysis, or inspection of trust transactions involving an entity in which such persons have a direct financial interest or an employment relationship;
(b) Prohibit such officers, employees, or agents from accepting any gratuity, favor, or anything of more than nominal value, from a party (other than the Tribe/Consortium) with an interest the trust transactions under review; and
(c) Provide for sanctions or remedies for violation of the standards.

# Subpart T—Tribal Consultation Process
§ 1000.2601
What is the purpose of this subpart?
(a) This subpart describes the process for engaging in consultations related to self-governance with Tribes/Consortia.
(b) The Tribal Consultation Process for self-governance matters described in this subpart is intended to apply to consultations commencing after the effective date of this rule and supersedes previous self-governance consultation processes used by the Secretary.
§ 1000.2605
When does the Secretary consult with Tribes and Consortia on matters related to self-governance?
On matters related to self-governance, the Secretary shall consult:
(a) To determine which programs are eligible for negotiation to be included in a funding agreement at the request of a participating Tribe/Consortium;
(b) To establish programmatic targets to encourage the Department's bureaus to ensure that an appropriate portion of non-BIA programs are available to be included in funding agreements;
(c) On any Secretarial Action with Tribal Implications, provided that the Secretary incorporate input and requests from Tribes and Consortia on topics for consultation.
§ 1000.2610
What principles should guide consultations with Tribes and Consortia?
To the extent practical and not prohibited by law, consultations with self-governance Tribes/Consortia should satisfy the following principles:
(a) Consultation recognizes Tribal sovereignty and the Nation-to-Nation relationship between the United States and Tribes and Consortia and acknowledges that the United States holds treaty and trust responsibilities to Tribes and Consortia.
(b) Consultation is a two-way Nation-to-Nation exchange of information and dialogue between official representatives of the United States and Tribes and Consortia.
(c) Consultation session methods may include, but are not limited to, in-person meetings, video conferences, teleconferences, and correspondence to discuss a specific issue, and must identify the session as consultation in advance of the scheduled meeting.
(d) Consultation should include both the elected or appointed official of the Tribe, acting in the official capacity as the leader of the Tribe or Consortia, or designee of the elected or appointed representative, and the Departmental official with authority to decide on the proposed Departmental Action with Tribal Implications, or designee.
(e) The Secretary shall make good faith efforts to invite Tribes and Consortia to consult early in the planning process and throughout the decision-making process and engage in robust, interactive, pre-decisional, informative, and transparent consultation when planning actions with Tribal implications.
(f) The Secretary should give meaningful consideration to information obtained during consultation with Tribes and Consortia.
(g) The Secretary should strive for consensus with Tribes and Consortia through consultation or a mutually desired outcome. It is the policy of the Department to seek consensus with Tribes and Consortia.
(h) Consultation will ensure that applicable information is readily available to Tribes and Consortia.
(i) Consultation will ensure that officials from Tribes and Consortia and Federal officials have adequate time to communicate.
(j) Consultation will ensure that Tribes and Consortia are advised as to how their input influenced the Department's decision-making.
§ 1000.2615
What notice must the Secretary provide to Tribes and Consortia of an upcoming consultation?
(a) The Secretary shall issue a notice of consultation which includes:
(1) Sufficient information on the topic to be discussed, in an accessible language and format, and context for the consultation topic, to facilitate meaningful consultation;
(2) Identification of a timeline of the process and possible outcomes for Departmental action under consideration;
(3) The date, time, and location of the consultation;
(4) If consulting virtually or by telephone, links to join or register in advance;
(5) An explanation of any time constraints known to the Department at that time;
(6) Deadlines for Tribes and Consortia to submit written comments on the topic; and
(7) The names and contact information for Departmental staff who can provide additional information on the consultation.
(b) The Secretary shall provide notice of at least 30 days to Tribes and Consortia of any planned consultation sessions.
(c) The Secretary shall distribute such notice under this section to each Tribe/Consortium through:
(1) Email to a point of contact for each Tribe and Consortium; and
(2) Posting the notice on the website for the Department and/or OSG.
(d) The Secretary should, to the greatest extent practical, provide appropriate, available information on the subject of consultation including, where consistent with applicable law, a proposed agenda, framing paper, and other relevant documents to assist in the consultation process.
§ 1000.2620
Is the Secretary required to allow written comments by Tribes and Consortia following a consultation?
Yes. The Secretary shall allow for a written comment period following the consultation of at least 30 days, unless otherwise directed by law.
§ 1000.2625
What record must the Secretary maintain following a consultation with Tribes and Consortia?
(a) The Secretary shall maintain a record of a consultation with Tribes or Consortia that includes:
(1) A summary of Tribal or Consortia input received;
(2) A general explanation of how Tribes or Consortia input influenced or was incorporated into the agency action; and
(3) If relevant, the general reasoning for why suggestions from Tribes or Consortia were not incorporated into the agency action or why consensus could not be attained.
(b) The Secretary shall timely disclose the outcome of a consultation and decisions made as a result of the consultation.
(c) The record of consultation does not waive any privilege or other exception to disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act or its implementing regulations.
§ 1000.2630
How must the Secretary handle confidential or sensitive information provided by Tribes and Consortia during a consultation?
Prior to a consultation, the Secretary shall inform Tribes and Consortia of those Federal laws, including the Freedom of Information Act, that may require disclosure of information provided by the self-governance Tribe/Consortium during a consultation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Secretary shall ensure that such information designated as confidential or sensitive by a Tribe or Consortium is not publicly disclosed. The Department should obtain advance informed consent from Tribes/Consortia for the use of confidential or sensitive information provided, and should inform Tribal representatives that certain Federal laws, including the Freedom of Information Act, may require disclosure of such information.
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM
Sec.
1001.1
Purpose.
1001.2
Applicant eligibility.
1001.3
Priority ranking for negotiations.
1001.4
Application review and approval.
1001.5
Application review and selection process for negotiations for funding agreements.
1001.6
Submitting applications.
1001.7
Availability, amount, and number of planning and negotiation grants.
1001.8
Selection criteria for tribes/consortia to receive a negotiation grant.
1001.9
Selection criteria for tribes/consortia seeking advance planning grant funding.
1001.10
Selection criteria for other planning and negotiating financial assistance.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 450 note, 458aa-458gg.

# Source:
60 FR 8554, Feb. 15, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1001.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this rule is to establish the process for tribes to apply for entry into the Self-Governance program and to establish the selection criteria by which the Department will identify eligible tribes and select tribes to begin the negotiations process.
§ 1001.2
Applicant eligibility.
Any tribe or consortium of tribes seeking inclusion in the applicant pool must meet the following eligibility criteria:
(a) Be a federally recognized tribe or a consortium of federally recognized tribes as defined in Public Law 93-638.
(b) Document, with an official action of the tribal governing body, a formal request to enter negotiations with the Department of Interior (Department) under the Tribal Self-Governance Act authority. In the case of a consortium of tribes, the governing body of each participating tribe must authorize participation by an official action by the tribal governing body.
(c) Demonstrate financial stability and financial management capability by furnishing organization-wide single audit reports as prescribed by Public Law 96-502, the Single Audit Act of 1984, for the previous three years. These audits must not contain material audit exceptions. In the case of tribal consortiums, each signatory to the agreement must meet this requirement. Non-signatory tribes participating in the consortium do not have to meet this requirement.
(d) Successfully complete the planning phase for self-governance. A final planning report must be submitted which demonstrates that the tribe has conducted—
(1) Legal and budgetary research; and
(2) Internal tribal government and organizational planning.
(e) To be included in the applicant pool, tribes or tribal consortiums may submit their applications at any time. The application should state which year the tribe desires to enter negotiations.
§ 1001.3
Priority ranking for negotiations.
In addition to the eligibility criteria identified above, a tribe or consortium of tribes seeking priority ranking for negotiations must submit a description of the efforts of the tribe or consortium to seek to enter negotiations and/or prepare for operations under the self-governance option. This narrative should identify any activities that the tribe has pursued, carefully identifying and documenting the dates involved, including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Prior planning activities related to self-governance, noting the source of funding for the planning activity and whether or not it was sanctioned by the Office of Self-Governance (OSG), including documentation as applicable.
(b) Prior efforts to secure planning and/or negotiation grants.
(c) Meetings with the OSG or other Departmental offices in which the tribe expressed an interest in participating in the Self-Governance Project.
(d) Correspondence between the tribe and the Department in which the tribe has expressed an interest in participating in the Self-Governance Project.
(e) All actions of the tribal governing body related to participating in the self-governance option.
§ 1001.4
Application review and approval.
Upon receipt of an application, the OSG will review the package and determine whether or not it is complete. Upon determination that it is complete, the name of the tribe or consortium will be included in the official applicant pool. Incomplete submissions will be returned with the deficiencies identified. Revised applications may be resubmitted for consideration at any time.
§ 1001.5
Application review and selection process for negotiations for funding agreements.
Upon acceptance into the applicant pool, the OSG will assign to each tribe or consortium a ranking relative to other applicants based upon the date
the OSG receives the complete application package. This ranking will constitute a master list that will be maintained and updated on a continuous basis from year to year. When receipt dates are the same for two or more applications, several other factors will be considered in determining the placement of the tribe or consortium on the list. These factors are identified in priority order as follows:
(a) Designation by the Congress through report language that a tribe should be considered for participation. These designations will be considered based upon the actual language of the report.
(b) Documentation of OSG sanctioning of the tribe's self-governance planning and subsequent evidence of actual planning by the tribe.
(c) Submission of a completed planning or negotiation grant application in the previous year.
(d) A signed agreement pursuant to the Indian Health Service (IHS) self-governance project.
(e) Receipt of a planning grant awarded by the IHS.
§ 1001.6
Submitting applications.
(a) Applications for inclusion in the applicant pool will be accepted on an on-going basis.
(b) Applications may be mailed or hand-delivered.
(c) Applications for negotiations in 1996 that are mailed must be postmarked no later than May 16, 1995.
(d) Applications must be sent to: Director, Office of Self Governance, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW., MIB RM/MS-2548, Washington, DC 20240.
§ 1001.7
Availability, amount, and number of planning and negotiation grants.
(a) What is the purpose of this section? This section describes how to apply for planning and negotiation grants authorized by section 402(d) of the Act to help meet tribal costs incurred:
(1) In meeting the planning phase requirement of Pub. L. 103-413, including planning to negotiate non-BIA programs, services, functions and activities; and
(2) In conducting negotiations.
(b) What types of grants are available? Three categories of grants may be available:
(1) Negotiation grants for tribes/consortia selected from the applicant pool as described in § 1001.5 of these regulations;
(2) Planning grants for tribes/consortia requiring advance funding to meet the planning phase requirement of Pub. L. 103-413; and
(3) Financial assistance for tribes/consortia to plan for negotiating for non-BIA programs, services, functions and activities, as described in § 1001.10.
(c) Will grants always be made available to meet the planning phase requirement as described in section 402(d) of Pub. L. 103-413? No. Grants to cover some or all of the planning costs that a tribe/consortium may incur may be made available depending upon the availability of funds appropriated by Congress. We will publish notice of availability of grants in the
Federal Register
as described in this section.
(d) May a tribe use its own resources to meet its planning and negotiation expenses in preparation for entering into self-governance? Yes. A tribe/consortium may use its own resources to meet these costs. Receiving a grant is not necessary to meet the planning phase requirement of the Act or to negotiate a compact and annual funding agreement.
(e) What happens if there are insufficient funds to meet the anticipated tribal requests for planning and negotiation grants in any given year? If appropriated funds are available but insufficient to meet the total requests from tribes/consortia, we will give first priority to those that have been selected from the applicant pool to negotiate an annual funding agreement. We will give second priority to tribes/consortia that require advance funds to meet the planning requirement for entry into the self-governance program. We will give third priority to tribes/consortia that require negotiation/planning funds to negotiate for DOI non-BIA programs.
(f) How many grants will the Department make each year and what funding will be available? The number and size
of grants awarded each year will depend on Congressional appropriations and tribal interest. Each year, we will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
which provides relevant details about the application process, including: The funds available, timeframes, and requirements for negotiation and advance planning specified in this part.
[61 FR 17831, Apr. 23, 1996]
§ 1001.8
Selection criteria for tribes/consortia to receive a negotiation grant.
(a) Who may be selected to receive a negotiation grant? Any tribe/consortium that has been accepted into the applicant pool in accordance with § 1001.5 and has been selected to negotiate a self-governance annual funding agreement is eligible to apply for a negotiation grant. Each year, we will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
with all relevant details as to how tribes/consortia which have been selected can apply for negotiation grants.
(b) What must a tribe/consortium do to receive a negotiation grant?
(1) To receive a negotiation grant, a tribe/consortium must:
(i) Be selected from the applicant pool to negotiate an annual funding agreement;
(ii) Be identified as eligible to receive a negotiation grant; and
(iii) Not have received a negotiation grant within the 3 years preceding the date of the latest
Federal Register
announcement described in § 1001.7.
(2) The tribe/consortium must submit a letter affirming its readiness to negotiate and formally request a negotiation grant to prepare for and negotiate a self-governance agreement. These grants are not competitive.
(c) May a selected tribe negotiate without applying for a negotiation grant? Yes. In this case, the tribe should notify us in writing so that funds can be reallocated for other grants.
[61 FR 17832, Apr. 23, 1996]
§ 1001.9
Selection criteria for tribes/consortia seeking advance planning grant funding.
(a) Who is eligible to apply for a planning grant that will be awarded before a tribe/consortium is admitted into the applicant pool? Any tribe/consortium that is not a self-governance tribe and needs advance funding in order to complete the planning phase requirement may apply. Tribes/consortia that have received a planning grant within 3 years preceding the date of the latest
Federal Register
announcement described in § 1001.7 are not eligible.
(b) What must a tribe/consortium seeking a planning grant submit in order to meet the planning phase requirements? A tribe/consortium must submit the following material:
(1) A tribal resolution or other final action of the tribal governing body indicating a desire to plan for tribal self-governance;
(2) Audits from the last 3 years which document that the tribe meets the requirement of being free from any material audit exception;
(3) A proposal that describes the tribe's/consortium's plans to conduct:
(i) Legal and budgetary research, and
(ii) Internal tribal government and organization planning;
(4) A timeline indicating when planning will start and end; and
(5) Evidence that the tribe/consortium can perform the tasks associated with its proposal (i.e., submit resumes and position descriptions of key staff or consultants to be used).
(c) How will tribes/consortia know when and how to apply for planning grants? Each year, we will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the availability of planning grants for additional tribes as described in § 1001.7. This notice will identify the specific details for applying.
(d) What criteria will be used to award planning grants to those tribes/consortia requiring advance funding to meet the planning phase requirement of Public Law 103-413? Advance planning grants are discretionary and based on need. The following criteria will be used to determine whether to award a planning grant to a tribe/consortium before the tribe is being selected into the applicant pool:
(1) A complete application as described in §§ 1001.9(b) and 1001.9(c);
(2) A demonstration of financial need. We will rank applications according to
the percentage of tribal resources to total resources as indicated in the latest A-128 audit. We will give priority to applications that demonstrate financial need by having a lower level of tribal resources as a percent of total resources; and
(3) Other factors that demonstrate the readiness of the tribe/consortium to enter into a self-governance agreement, including previous efforts of the tribe/consortium to participate in self-governance.
(e) Can tribes/consortia that receive advance planning grants also apply for a negotiation grant? Yes. Tribes/consortia that receive advance planning grants may submit a completed application to be included in the applicant pool. Once approved for inclusion in the applicant pool, the tribe/consortium may apply for a negotiation grant according to the process identified in § 1001.7 above.
(f) When and how will a tribe/consortium know whether it has been selected to receive an advance planning grant? Within 30 days of the deadline for submitting applications we will notify the tribe/consortium by letter whether it has been selected to receive an advance planning grant.
[61 FR 17832, Apr. 23, 1996]
§ 1001.10
Selection criteria for other planning and negotiating financial assistance.
(a) What is the purpose of this section? This section describes how to apply for other financial assistance for planning and negotiating of a DOI non-BIA program, service, function or activity that may be available, as well as the selection process.
(b) Are there other funds that may be available to self-governance tribes/consortia for planning and negotiating with DOI non-BIA bureaus? Yes. Tribes/consortia may contact the Director, Office of Self-Governance to determine if funds are available for the purpose of planning and negotiating with DOI non-BIA bureaus under this section. A tribe/consortium may also request information from a DOI non-BIA bureau on any funds which may be available from that bureau.
(c) Who is eligible to apply for financial assistance to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program? Any existing self-governance tribe/consortium is eligible.
(d) Under what circumstances may planning and negotiation financial assistance be made available to tribes/consortia? At the discretion of the Director, grants may be awarded when requested by the tribe and coordinated with the DOI non-BIA agency involved.
(e) How does the tribe/consortium apply for a grant to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program? When such funds are available, we will publish a notice of their availability and a deadline for submitting applications for such grants in the
Federal Register
as indicated in § 1001.7.
(f) What must be included in the application? The application must include the following:
(1) The tribal resolution or other final action of the tribal governing body indicating that the tribe/consortium intends to negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program;
(2) A copy of the proposal or summary that was submitted to the DOI non-BIA bureau;
(3) A time line indicating when planning will begin and end;
(4) The planning resources from all other sources that are approved and/or anticipated for the planning activity; and
(5) The amount requested and a justification of why it is needed by the tribe/consortium.
(g) What criteria will we use to award grants to those tribes/consortia requesting financial assistance to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program? The award of such grants is discretionary. After consulting with the requesting tribe/consortium and the appropriate DOI non-BIA bureau, the Director will determine whether to award a grant to plan and negotiate for a DOI non-BIA program. The determination will be based upon the complexity of the project, the availability of resources from all other sources, and the relative need of the tribe/consortium to receive such funds for the successful completion of the planning and negotiating activity, as determined by the percentage of tribal resources to total resources as indicated in the latest A-128 audit. All decisions to award
or not to award grants as described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section are final for the Department.
[61 FR 17832, Apr. 23, 1996]
PARTS 1002-1186 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1187

# PART 1187—INDIAN BUSINESS INCUBATORS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions and Eligibility
Sec.
1187.1
What is the Indian Business Incubators Program (IBIP)?
1187.2
What terms do I need to know?
1187.3
Who is eligible to receive a grant under the IBIP?

# Subpart B—Applying for a Grant
1187.10
How does an eligible applicant apply for a grant under the IBIP?
1187.11
What must an application include?
1187.12
What must an applicant include in a written site proposal?
1187.13
May applicants submit a joint application?
1187.14
What additional items must a joint application include?

# Subpart C—Evaluation and Award of Grant Applications
1187.20
How will OIED evaluate each application?
1187.21
How will OIED evaluate the proposed location of the business incubator?
1187.22
How will OIED conduct the site evaluation?

# Subpart D—Grant Awards
1187.30
How will OIED disburse the grant funds to awardees?
1187.31
May OIED award a grant that is duplicative of Federal funding from another source?

# Subpart E—Grant Term and Conditions
1187.40
How long is the grant term?
1187.41
May OIED renew a grant award?
1187.42
What may awardees use grant funds for?
1187.43
May OIED waive the requirement for the non-Federal contribution?
1187.44
What minimum requirements must awardees meet?
1187.45
What reports must the awardee submit?

# Subpart F—OIED Grant Administration
1187.50
How will OIED evaluate awardees' performance?
1187.51
Will OIED facilitate relationships between awardees and educational institutions serving Native American communities?
1187.52
How will OIED coordinate with other Federal agencies?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2, 9; 25 U.S.C. 5801
et seq.

# Source:
86 FR 50257, Sept. 8, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions and Eligibility
§ 1187.1
What is the Indian Business Incubators Program (IBIP)?
The Indian Business Incubators Program (IBIP) is a program under the Native American Business Incubators Program Act in which the Office of Indian Economic Development (OIED) provides competitive grants to eligible applicants to establish and operate business incubators that serve Tribal reservation communities. With these grants, business incubators will:
(a) Provide individually tailored business incubation and other business services to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs to overcome the unique obstacles they confront; and
(b) Provide Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs with the tools necessary to start and grow businesses that offer products and services to reservation communities.
§ 1187.2
What terms do I need to know?
As used in the part:
Awardee
means an eligible applicant receiving a grant under the IBIP.
Business incubator
means an organization that:
(1) Provides physical workspace and facilities resources to startups and established businesses; and
(2) Is designed to accelerate the growth and success of businesses through a variety of business support resources and services, including—
(i) Business education, counseling, and advice regarding access to capital;
(ii) Networking opportunities;
(iii) Mentorship opportunities; and
(iv) Other services intended to aid in developing a business.
Eligible applicant
means an applicant eligible to apply for a grant under § 1187.3.
IBIP
means the Indian Business Incubator Program (IBIP) under the Native American Business Incubator Program Act.
Indian Tribe
has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
Institution of higher education
means an educational institution in any State that—
(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate, or persons who meet the requirements of 20 U.S.C. 1091(d);
(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;
(3) Provides an educational program for which the institution awards a bachelor's degree or provides not less than a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree, or awards a degree that is acceptable for admission to a graduate or professional degree program, subject to review and approval by the Secretary;
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted pre-accreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary for the granting of pre-accreditation status, and the Secretary has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time.
Native American
or
Native
means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe, as defined in section 4(d) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304(d)).
Native business
means a business concern that is at least 51-percent owned and controlled by 1 or more Native Americans.
Native entrepreneur
means an entrepreneur who is a Native American.
OIED
means the Office of Indian Economic Development in the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs.
Reservation
means Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Tribal college or university
means an institution that—
(1) Qualifies for funding under the Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
) or the Navajo Community College Act (25 U.S.C. 640a note); or
(2) Is cited in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note).
§ 1187.3
Who is eligible to receive a grant under the IBIP?
To be eligible to receive a grant under the IBIP, an applicant must:
(a) Be able to provide the physical workspace, equipment, and connectivity necessary for Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs to collaborate and conduct business on a local, regional, national, and international level; and
(b) Be one of the following entities:
(1) An Indian Tribe;
(2) A Tribal college or university that will have been operational for not less than one year before receiving a grant under the IBIP;
(3) An institution of higher education that will have been operational for not less than one year before receiving a grant under the IBIP; or
(4) A Tribal or private nonprofit organization that provides business and financial technical assistance and:
(i) Will have been operational for not less than one year before receiving a grant under the IBIP; and
(ii) Commits to serving one or more reservation communities.

# Subpart B—Applying for a Grant
§ 1187.10
How does an eligible applicant apply for a grant under the IBIP?
Each eligible applicant desiring a grant under the IBIP must submit to the Secretary an application as described in the solicitation posted on
www.grants.gov.
§ 1187.11
What must an application include?
An application for a grant under the IBIP must include:
(a) A certification that the applicant:
(1) Is an eligible applicant;
(2) Has or will designate an executive director or program manager to manage the business incubator; and
(3) Agrees to:
(i) A site evaluation by the Secretary as part of the final selection process;
(ii) An annual programmatic and financial examination for the duration of the grant; and
(iii) To the maximum extent practicable, to remedy any problems identified pursuant to the site evaluation and examination;
(b) A description of the one or more reservation communities to be served by the business incubator;
(c) A three-year plan that describes:
(1) The number of Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs to be participating in the business incubator;
(2) Whether the business incubator will focus on a particular type of business or industry;
(3) A detailed breakdown of the services to be offered to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs participating in the business incubator; and
(4) A detailed breakdown of the services, if any, to be offered to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs not participating in the business incubator;
(d) Information demonstrating the effectiveness and experience of the eligible applicant in:
(1) Conducting financial, management, and marketing assistance programs designed to educate or improve the business skills of current or prospective businesses;
(2) Working in and providing services to Native American communities;
(3) Providing assistance to entities conducting business in reservation communities;
(4) Providing technical assistance under Federal business and entrepreneurial development programs for which Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs are eligible; and
(5) Managing finances and staff effectively;
(e) A description of the applicant's non-Federal contributions, in an amount equal to not less than 25 percent of the grant amount requested; and
(f) A site description of the location at which the eligible applicant will provide physical workspace, including a description of the technologies, equipment, and other resources that will be available to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs participating in the business incubator, if the applicant is in possession of the site, or a written site proposal containing the information in § 1187.12, if the applicant is not yet in possession of the site.
§ 1187.12
What must an applicant include in a written site proposal?
If the applicant is not yet in possession of the site, the applicant must submit a written site proposal with their application that contains:
(a) Sufficient detail for the Secretary to ensure, in the absence of a site visit or video submission, that the proposed site will permit the eligible applicant to meet the requirements of the IBIP; and
(b) A timeline describing when the eligible applicant will be:
(1) In possession of the proposed site; and
(2) Operating the business incubator at the proposed site.
§ 1187.13
May applicants submit a joint application?
Two or more eligible entities may submit a joint application for a project that combines the resources and expertise of those entities at a physical location dedicated to assisting Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs under the IBIP.
§ 1187.14
What additional items must a joint application include?
A joint application must:
(a) Contain a certification that each participant of the joint project is an eligible entity under § 1187.3;
(b) Demonstrate that together the participants meet the requirements of § 1187.13; and
(c) Identify which of the entities submitting the joint application will be the lead contact for the purposes of grant management.

# Subpart C—Evaluation and Award of Grant Applications
§ 1187.20
How will OIED evaluate each application?
In evaluating each application, OIED will consider:
(a) The ability of the eligible applicant to:
(1) Operate a business incubator that effectively imparts entrepreneurship and business skills to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs, as demonstrated by the experience and qualifications of the eligible applicant;
(2) Commence providing services within three months; and
(3) Provide quality incubation services to a significant number of Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs or provide such services at geographically remote locations where quality business guidance and counseling is difficult to obtain;
(b) The experience of the eligible applicant in providing services in Native American communities, including in the one or more reservation communities described in the application;
(c) The proposed location of the business incubator; and
(d) The extent to which a grant award will enable an entity that is already providing business incubation services to appreciably enhance those services.
§ 1187.21
How will OIED evaluate the proposed location of the business incubator?
In evaluating the proposed location of the business incubator, OIED will:
(a) Consider the program goal of achieving broad geographic distribution of business incubators; and
(b) Give priority to eligible applicants that will provide business incubation services on or near the reservation of the one or more communities that were described in the application, except that OIED may give priority to an eligible applicant that is not located on or near the reservation of the one or more communities that were described in the application if OIED determines that:
(1) The location of the business incubator will not prevent the eligible applicant from providing quality business incubation services to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs from the one or more reservation communities to be served; and
(2) Siting the business incubator in the identified location will serve the interests of the one or more reservation communities to be served.
§ 1187.22
How will OIED conduct the site evaluation?
(a) Before awarding a grant to an eligible applicant, OIED will conduct an evaluation of the proposed site to verify that the applicant has (or will have) the physical workspace, equipment, and connectivity necessary for Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs to collaborate and conduct business on a local, regional, national, and/or international level.
(b) To determine whether the site meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) If the applicant is in possession of the proposed site, OIED will conduct an on-site visit or review a video submission before awarding the grant.
(2) If the applicant is not yet in possession of the proposed site and has submitted a written site proposal, OIED will review the written site proposal before awarding the grant and will conduct an on-site visit or review a video submission to ensure the site is consistent with the written site proposal no later than one year after awarding the grant. If OIED determines the site is not consistent with the written site proposal, OIED will use that information in determining the ongoing eligibility of the applicant under § 1187.50.

# Subpart D—Grant Awards
§ 1187.30
How will OIED disburse the grant funds to awardees?
OIED will disburse grant funds awarded to eligible applicants in annual installments except that, OIED may make disbursements more frequently, on request by the applicant, as long as disbursements are not made more frequently than quarterly.
§ 1187.31
May OIED award a grant that is duplicative of Federal funding from another source?
OIED may not award a grant under the IBIP that is duplicative of existing Federal funding from another source. Duplicative funding means any funding from other Federal grants that would overlap with the IBIP grant for the same activities described in the applicant's IBIP proposal.

# Subpart E—Grant Term and Conditions
§ 1187.40
How long is the grant term?
Each grant awarded under the IBIP is for a term of three years.
§ 1187.41
May OIED renew a grant award?
(a) OIED may renew a grant award under the IBIP for one additional three-year term. In determining whether to renew a grant award, OIED will consider for the awardee:
(1) The results of the annual evaluation of the awardee conducted under § 1187.50;
(2) The performance of the awardee's business incubator, as compared to the performance of other business incubators receiving grants under the IBIP;
(3) Whether the awardee continues to be eligible for the IBIP; and
(4) The evaluation consideration for initial awards under § 1187.20.
(b) Awardees that receive a grant renewal must provide non-Federal contributions in an amount not less than 33 percent of the total amount of the grant. Failure to provide the non-Federal contribution will result in noncompliance and OIED withholding of funds, unless OIED waives the requirement under § 1187.43.
§ 1187.42
What may awardees use grant funds for?
An awardee may use grant amounts for any or all of the following purposes:
(a) To provide physical workspace and facilities for Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs participating in the business incubator;
(b) To establish partnerships with other institutions and entities to provide comprehensive business incubation services to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs participating in the business incubator; and
(c) For any other uses typically associated with business incubators that OIED determines to be appropriate and consistent with the purposes of the IBIP.
§ 1187.43
May OIED waive the requirement for the non-Federal contribution?
OIED may waive the requirement for the non-Federal contribution, in whole or in part, for one or more years of the initial IBIP grant award if OIED determines that the waiver is appropriate based on:
(a) The awardee's ability to provide non-Federal contributions;
(b) The quality of business incubation services; and
(c) The likelihood that one or more reservation communities served by the awardee will not receive similar services elsewhere because of the remoteness or other reasons that inhibit the provision of business and entrepreneurial development services.
§ 1187.44
What minimum requirements must awardees meet?
(a) Each awardee must:
(1) Offer culturally tailored incubation services to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs;
(2) Use a competitive process for selecting Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs to participate in the business incubator; however, awardees may still offer technical assistance and advice to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs on a walk-in basis;
(3) Provide physical workspace that permits Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs to conduct business and collaborate with other Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs;
(4) Provide entrepreneurship and business skills training and education to Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs including:
(i) Financial education, including training and counseling in:
(A) Applying for and securing business credit and investment capital;
(B) Preparing and presenting financial statements; and
(C) Managing cash flow and other financial operations of a business;
(ii) Management education, including training and counseling in planning, organization, staffing, directing, and controlling each major activity or function of a business or startup; and
(iii) Marketing education, including training and counseling in:
(A) Identifying and segmenting domestic and international market opportunities;
(B) Preparing and executing marketing plans;
(C) Locating contract opportunities;
(D) Negotiating contracts; and
(E) Using varying public relations and advertising techniques;
(5) Provide direct mentorship or assistance finding mentors in the industry in which the Native business or Native entrepreneur operates or intends to operate; and
(6) Provide access to networks of potential investors, professionals in the same or similar fields, and other business owners with similar businesses.
(b) Each awardee must leverage technology to the maximum extent practicable to provide Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs with access to the connectivity tools needed to compete and thrive in 21st-century markets.
§ 1187.45
What reports must the awardee submit?
(a) Not later than one year after the date OIED awards the grant, and then annually for the duration of the grant, the awardee must submit to OIED a report describing the services the awardee provided under the IBIP during the preceding year, including:
(1) A detailed breakdown of the Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs receiving services from the business incubator, including, for the year covered by the report:
(i) The number of Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs participating in or receiving services from the business incubator and the types of services provided to those Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs;
(ii) The number of Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs established and jobs created or maintained; and
(iii) The performance of Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs while participating in the business incubator and after graduation or departure from the business incubator; and
(2) Any other information the Secretary may require to evaluate the performance of a business incubator to ensure appropriate implementation of the IBIP.
(b) To the maximum extent practicable, OIED will not require an awardee to report the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section that the awardee provides to OIED under another program.
(c) OIED will coordinate with the heads of other Federal agencies to ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, the report content and form under paragraph (a) of this section are consistent with other reporting requirements for Federal programs that provide business and entrepreneurial assistance.

# Subpart F—OIED Grant Administration
§ 1187.50
How will OIED evaluate awardees' performance?
Not later than one year after the date on which OIED awards a grant to an eligible applicant under the IBIP, and annually thereafter for the duration of the grant, OIED will conduct an evaluation of, and prepare a report on, the awardee, which will:
(a) Describe the performance of the eligible applicant; and
(b) Be used in determining the ongoing eligibility of the eligible applicant.
§ 1187.51
Will OIED facilitate relationships between awardees and educational institutions serving Native American communities?
OIED will facilitate the relationships between awardees and educational institutions serving Native American
communities, including Tribal colleges and universities.
§ 1187.52
How will OIED coordinate with other Federal agencies?
OIED will coordinate with the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, and Treasury, and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that awardees have the information and materials they need to provide Native businesses and Native entrepreneurs with the information and assistance necessary to apply for business and entrepreneurial development programs administered by those agencies.
PARTS 1188-1199 [RESERVED]
25 CFR Ch. VII (4-1-25 Edition)
Off. of Spec. Trustee for Amer. Indians, DOI

# CHAPTER VII—OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL TRUSTEE FOR AMERICAN INDIANS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Part
Page
1200
American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act
483
1201-1299
[Reserved]
Pt. 1200

# PART 1200—AMERICAN INDIAN TRUST FUND MANAGEMENT REFORM ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1200.1
Purpose of this regulation.
1200.2
Definitions.
1200.3
What is the Department's policy on tribal management of trust funds?
1200.4
May tribes exercise increased direction over their trust funds and retain the protections of Federal trust status?
1200.5
What are the advantages and disadvantages of managing trust funds under the options in § 1200.4?
1200.6
How could a tribe receive future income directly rather than have the government continue to collect it?
1200.7
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Withdrawing Tribal Funds From Trust
1200.10
Who is eligible to withdraw their tribal funds from trust?
1200.11
What funds may be withdrawn?
1200.12
What limitations and restrictions apply to withdrawn funds?
1200.13
How does a tribe apply to withdraw funds?
1200.14
What must the Tribal Management Plan contain?
1200.15
What is the approval process for management plans?
1200.16
What criteria will be used in evaluating the management plan?
1200.17
What special criteria will be used to evaluate management plans for judgment or settlement funds?
1200.18
When does the Department's trust responsibility end?
1200.19
How can the plan be revised?
1200.20
How can a tribe withdraw additional funds?
1200.21
How may a tribe appeal denials under this part?

# Subpart C—Returning Tribal Funds to Trust
1200.30
How does a tribe notify the Department if it wishes to return withdrawn funds to Federal trust status?
1200.31
What part of withdrawn funds can be returned to trust?
1200.32
How often can funds be returned?
1200.33
How can funds be returned?
1200.34
Can a tribe withdraw redeposited funds?

# Subpart D—Technical Assistance
1200.40
How will the Department provide technical assistance for tribes?
1200.41
What types of technical assistance are available?
1200.42
Who can provide technical assistance?
1200.43
How can a tribe apply for technical assistance?
1200.44
What action will the Department take on requests for technical assistance?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 4001.

# Source:
61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1200.1
Purpose of this regulation.
This part describes the processes by which Indian tribes can manage tribal funds currently held in trust by the United States. It defines how tribes may withdraw their funds from trust status; how they may return funds to trust; and how they may request technical assistance or grants to help prepare plans to manage funds or to ensure the capability to manage those funds.
§ 1200.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-412, 108 Stat. 4239, 25 U.S.C. 4001).
Agency Superintendent
means the official in charge of a Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency.
Bureau
or
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
Department
or
DOI
means the Department of the Interior.
Fiduciary Trust Officer
means the designated OST official at the agency or regional office.
General Counsel
means the attorney for the tribe.
OST
means the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior.
Regional Director
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of a Regional Office.
Resolution
means the formal manner in which a tribal government expresses its legislative will.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his/her designee.
Solicitor
means the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior.
Special Trustee
means the Special Trustee for American Indians appointed under title III of the Act.
Tribal council
means the elected or appointed governing officials of any tribe which is recognized by the Secretary.
Tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act which is federally recognized by the U.S. Government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians. For this purpose, it also means two or more tribes joined for any purpose, the joint assets of which include funds held in trust by the Secretary. An example of this would be the KCA (consisting of the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Tribes).
Us
means the Department of the Interior, i.e., the Secretary of the Interior or his/her designee.
We
means the Department of the Interior, i.e., the Secretary of the Interior or his/her designee.
[61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]
§ 1200.3
What is the Department's policy on tribal management of trust funds?
(a) We will give tribes as much responsibility as they desire for the management of their tribal funds that we currently hold in trust.
(b) Title II of the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act, implemented by these regulations, offers tribes one approach for assuming increased management of their funds that we now hold in trust and administer. Under title II, a tribe may completely remove its funds from Federal trust status and manage them as it wishes, subject to the requirements and conditions in this part. When a tribe withdraws its funds under this part, it may invest those funds in equities or other investment vehicles that are statutorily unavailable to us.
§ 1200.4
May tribes exercise increased direction over their trust funds and retain the protections of Federal trust status?
Yes. The Tribal Self-Governance Act (25 U.S.C. 458) and the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
) provide other options for trust funds management. A tribe may choose to manage its trust funds under the provisions of these Acts if it wishes. These options are covered by 25 CFR part 900 (the “Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act Program”) and 25 CFR part 1000 (the “Self-Governance Program”).
§ 1200.5
What are the advantages and disadvantages of managing trust funds under the options in § 1200.4?
Under these other options, the funds remain in Federal trust status and the tribe can exercise a range of control over their management. However, the tribe has fewer investment options than it has when it withdraws its funds completely from trust status. If a tribe chooses to keep its funds in trust status, the tribe is subject to the same statutory investment restrictions that bind us. That means that the tribe's investments are limited to bank deposits and securities guaranteed by the United States. (See 25 U.S.C. 162a for specific statutory investment restrictions.)
§ 1200.6
How could a tribe receive future income directly rather than have the government continue to collect it?
If a tribe wishes to receive future income directly, the tribe may contact a Fiduciary Trust Officer located at the agency or regional office.
[71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]
§ 1200.7
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements contained in subpart B of this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507
et seq.,
and assigned OMB Control Number 1035-0003. Information is also collected in subpart D through the use of the following standard forms:
(1) SF 424, Application for Federal Assistance, OMB Control Number 0348-0043; and
(2) SF 424A, Budget Information, OMB Control Number 0348-0044.
(b) Information collected in § 1200.13 (How does a tribe apply to withdraw funds?) will be used to determine the eligibility of applicants, and the capability of tribes or their contractors to manage and invest large blocks of funds.
(c) Information collected in § 1200.43, (How can a tribe apply for technical assistance?) will be used to determine the eligibility of applicants, as well as the level of need for technical assistance, in order for tribes to develop Management Plans and to complete the application for withdrawal process.
[61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]

# Subpart B—Withdrawing Tribal Funds From Trust
§ 1200.10
Who is eligible to withdraw their tribal funds from trust?
Any tribe for whom we manage funds in trust.
§ 1200.11
What funds may be withdrawn?
A tribe may withdraw some or all funds that we hold in trust if we approve a plan that it submits under this part.
§ 1200.12
What limitations and restrictions apply to withdrawn funds?
(a) A tribe may withdraw funds appropriated to satisfy judgments of the Indian Claims Commission (ICC) and the Court of Federal Claims and that we hold under the Indian Judgment Funds Use and Distributions Act (25 U.S.C. 1401) or another act of Congress if:
(1) The tribe uses the funds as specified in the previously approved judgment fund plan, and;
(2) The tribe withdraws only funds held for Indian tribes and does not include any funds held for individual tribal members.
(b) A tribe may withdraw funds appropriated to satisfy settlement agreements relating to certain tribal claims and that we hold and manage for the tribe pursuant to an act of Congress if:
(1) The tribe uses the funds as specified in the previously approved settlement act plan;
(2) The tribe withdraws only funds held for Indian tribes and does not include any funds held for individual tribal members; and
(3) It is determined that there is no provision in the act or settlement agreement requiring that the funds remain in trust to implement the act or agreement that cannot be waived.
(c) Tribal funds commonly known as “Proceeds of Labor” funds, usually income to trust resources, are generally withdrawn under normal tribal budgeting procedures, but may also be withdrawn from trust under this part. These funds may be returned to trust under the provisions of subpart C of this part.
§ 1200.13
How does a tribe apply to withdraw funds?
To withdraw funds, a tribe must submit four copies of its application and the attachments listed in this section to: Director, Office of External Affairs, Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior, MS-5140, 1849 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20240. We will notify the tribe if the application is incomplete and will help the tribe complete the application if requested. When we determine that the application is complete, we will send copies to the appropriate agency superintendent and regional director, and to the Special Trustee and the Solicitor. Each application package must contain the items listed below.
(a) Proof that the tribe has notified its members of its intent to remove funds from trust and that, when the request is approved, the tribe and not the United States Government will be liable for funds management. Notification must be by the method(s) that the tribe customarily uses to notify its members of significant tribal actions. The notification must identify the specific funds to be withdrawn.
(b) A tribal resolution that:
(1) Expressly authorizes the withdrawal of the funds and indicates the
(approximate) dollar amount of the funds to be withdrawn;
(2) Expressly acknowledges that the funds, once withdrawn in accordance with the Act, will no longer be held in trust status by the United States, and that we have no further liability or responsibility for the funds; and
(3) Acknowledges that:
(i) Neither we nor the tribe necessarily accept the account balances at the time of withdrawal as accurate; and
(ii) Neither we nor the tribe have waived any rights regarding the balances, including the right to seek compensation for incorrect balances.
(c) A copy of a formal agreement between the tribe and the manager of the funds to be withdrawn, in which the manager agrees to:
(1) Comply with the terms of the plan we approve under § 1200.15 and make only those changes that conform to revision procedures in the approved plan and the requirements of § 1200.19; and
(2) Transfer funds to the tribe or another manager only after receiving a valid tribal resolution calling for this transfer and proof that the tribe has notified its members of intent to transfer the funds. The resolution must clearly state that:
(i) The funds are being withdrawn to be reinvested by the tribe in a manner consistent with the goals and strategies of the approved plan; and
(ii) The fund managers will continue to follow any previously approved distribution plan conditions.
(d) A legal opinion by the tribe's attorney or its general counsel that:
(1) The resolution referred to in paragraph (b) of this section was enacted under procedures established by the tribe's organic documents or oral tradition;
(2) The tribal governing body has the legal authority to withdraw funds from trust status and that the withdrawal does not require a referendum vote or other procedure beyond a tribal council resolution; and
(3) If the funds to be withdrawn are judgment or settlement funds, that the tribe's plan for managing the funds meets the requirements of any applicable judgment fund use and distribution plan or settlement act.
(e) The results of a tribal referendum, if one was held.
(f) If the funds to be withdrawn are judgment or settlement funds, a copy of the act and/or plan that sets out the conditions for the uses of the funds or income from them.
(g) A management plan as provided for in § 1200.14.
[61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]
§ 1200.14
What must the Tribal Management Plan contain?
The Tribal Management Plan required by § 1200.13 must include each of the following:
(a) Tribal investment goals and the strategy for achieving them.
(b) A description of the protection against the substantial loss of principal, as set forth in § 1200.16.
(c) A copy of the tribe's ordinances and procedures for managing or overseeing the management of the funds to be withdrawn. These must include adequate protections against fraud, abuse, and violations of the management plan.
(d) A description of the tribe's previous experience managing or overseeing the management of invested funds. This should include factual data of past performance of tribally-managed funds (i.e., audited reports) and the identity and qualifications of the tribe's investment officer.
(e) A description of the capability of all of the individuals or investment institutions that will be involved in managing and investing the funds for the tribe. Provide copies of State or Federal security applications for account executive(s).
(1) Investment entities named must submit:
(i) Ownership information (including Central Registry Depository (CRD) numbers);
(ii) Asset size and capitalization;
(iii) Assets under management;
(iv) Performance statistics on managed accounts for the past 5 years; and
(v) Any adverse actions by licensing and/or regulatory bodies within the past 5 years.
(2) In addition, we may ask about:
(i) Soft dollar arrangements;
(ii) Affiliation with broker dealers, banks, insurance and/or investment companies;
(iii) Research done in house;
(iv) Recent changes in active portfolio managers; and
(v) Any other information necessary to make an adequate evaluation of the proposed plan.
(f) A description of how the plan will ensure that the fund manager will comply with any conditions established in judgment fund plans or settlement acts.
(g) Proof of liability insurance of the investment firm.
(h) Proof of liability insurance that protects against fraud for those Tribal Council members with authority to disburse funds. In many tribes the chairperson, and the comptroller and/or the tribal treasurer, for example, would be the positions having this authority.
(i) A plan for custodianship of investment securities that includes:
(1) Name of persons in the tribe who can direct the custodian;
(2) Name of the custodian;
(3) Copy of intended custodian agreement;
(4) Size of custodian operation;
(5) Disclosure of any security lending provisions; and
(6) Insurance coverage.
(j) A tribal council agreement to provide an annual audit and report on performance of withdrawn funds to the tribal membership. The agreement must include a description of the steps (including audit performance and reporting) the tribe will take to ensure its membership that the tribe is continuing to comply with the terms of the plan submitted and approved pursuant to judgment fund limitations (if any) and/or the terms of the Act.
(k) The proposed date for transfer of funds.
(l) A statement as to whether the tribe chooses to receive the withdrawal as a cash balance transfer, as a transfer of marketable investments that we own for the tribe, or as a combination of the two.
(1) A cash balance transfer may require us to sell bonds, notes, or other investments that we purchased when investing the tribe's monies.
(2) We cannot transfer non-marketable securities to a tribe. We can only purchase and hold them and must sell them back to the U.S. Treasury.
(3) If we sell a tribe's security at a loss (i.e., when market value is less than book value or carrying value) we will first notify the tribe. The tribe must instruct us to proceed with the sale and must agree not to hold us responsible for the loss before we will make the sale.
(4) If the tribe asks us to transfer marketable securities, upon proper instructions from the new tribal custodian, we will order our custodian to physically transfer the proper security to the new custodian on the agreed upon date.
(m) Agreement that judgment award funds will have segregated accounts.
(n) A description of the procedures for amending or revising the plan.
[61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]
§ 1200.15
What is the approval process for management plans?
The Secretary will approve or disapprove each management plan, based in part upon our recommendation.
(a) We will determine the completeness of the application, provide for adequate professional review of the application and the management plan, and provide technical assistance as necessary to make an application complete.
(b) We will coordinate with regional directors in confirming authority of tribal governments to make requests.
(c) We will approve or disapprove a request within 90 calendar days of receiving a completed application. This 90-day period does not include time that we spend awaiting a response from the tribe for additional information that we have requested. All determinations will be in writing, and all responses will be by certified mail.
(d) If we find that a plan does not meet the criteria in § 1200.16, we will notify the tribe of shortcomings of the request, and allow the tribe to respond before recommending formal disapproval.
(e) Before final approval, we will reach agreement with the tribe on how many days after final approval we will
transfer the funds. We will transfer the funds as soon after final approval as the tribe or manager is ready to receive them, unless we need additional time to sell existing instruments.
[61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]
§ 1200.16
What criteria will be used in evaluating the management plan?
Each plan must be approved by the appropriate tribal governing body, and must be accompanied by a resolution approving the plan. The plan must be reasonable in light of the trust responsibility and the principles of Indian self-determination, and other appropriate factors, including, but not limited to, the factors listed below:
(a) We will evaluate the individuals or entities that will manage the funds to be withdrawn, or that will advise the tribe on investing the funds to be withdrawn in order to determine if they have the capability and experience to manage the funds. Among the elements we will evaluate are: the number of years in business, the performance record for funds management, and the ability to compensate the tribe if the entity is found liable for failing to comply with the tribe's management plan (i.e., its assets, bonding, and insurance).
(b) We will review the tribe's experience in managing investments. We will compare this experience to the complexity of the proposed management plan to determine whether the tribe has the experience to manage its proposed plan or whether it should begin with a less complex approach.
(c) We will evaluate the tribe's internal audit and control systems for overseeing or monitoring its investment activity.
(d) We will evaluate the adequacy of protection against substantial loss of principal. Our determination will include a thorough evaluation of the tribe's investment plan including:
(1) The goals and objectives;
(2) The proposed uses of the fund in order to meet business objectives;
(3) The size and diversity of the investment portfolio (for example, the class of stocks and the mixture of types of investments);
(4) The financial condition of the tribe;
(5) The inherent riskiness of the proposed investments; and
(6) The tribe's projected need and proposed timeframes to draw down the funds being invested or the income from them.
(e) We will determine the likelihood that the plan will be followed. We will base this determination on the contents of the agreement between the tribe and the fund manager and other appropriate factors.
§ 1200.17
What special criteria will be used to evaluate management plans for judgment or settlement funds?
For judgment or settlement funds, in addition to the criteria in § 1200.16, we will determine if the plan adequately provides for compliance with any conditions, uses of funds, or other requirements established by the appropriate judgment fund plan or settlement act.
§ 1200.18
When does the Department's trust responsibility end?
Our trust responsibility for funds withdrawn under this part ends on the date that the funds are withdrawn. However at the time of withdrawal neither we nor the tribe may be deemed to have accepted the account balance at the time of withdrawal as accurate; or waived any rights regarding the balance and our ability to seek compensation.
§ 1200.19
How can the plan be revised?
Once a tribe has withdrawn its funds, the tribe may revise its plan without our approval. All revisions should conform to the procedures outlined in the approved management plan. The tribe should inform its members of all revisions to a plan through normal tribal procedures before the revisions are implemented.
§ 1200.20
How can a tribe withdraw additional funds?
(a) If a tribe has withdrawn funds under an approved tribal management plan and wishes to withdraw additional funds that will be managed under the same plan, it need not submit a complete new application. The tribe must:
(1) Notify us of the additional amount it intends to withdraw and whether the funds to be withdrawn are in kind or cash. (Written notification should be provided to our address in § 1200.13);
(2) Send us a tribal resolution approving the new withdrawal and certifying that the funds are being withdrawn subject to the same conditions and that they will be managed under the plan in the original approved application;
(3) Send us a copy of the most recent compliance audit or investment report.
(b) After we finish our review we will release the additional funds, unless the compliance audit or investment report indicates that the tribe is not complying with its management plan. In this case, we will not release the additional funds until the tribe demonstrates that it is complying with the management plan.
§ 1200.21
How may a tribe appeal denials under this part?
If we deny a request or do not approve an application within 90 days of a request, the tribe may address any problems that we identify and resubmit a revised request, seek technical assistance, or appeal the denial under 43 CFR part 4.

# Subpart C—Returning Tribal Funds to Trust
§ 1200.30
How does a tribe notify the Department if it wishes to return withdrawn funds to Federal trust status?
If a tribe elects to return some or all of the funds it has withdrawn from Federal trust status pursuant to this Act, it must first notify us in writing at our address in § 1200.13. This notification must provide a proposed date for the return of the funds, as well as the amount of funds to be returned, or actual securities to be delivered to the appropriate custodian.
§ 1200.31
What part of withdrawn funds can be returned to trust?
A tribe may return all or a portion of the principal which was removed from trust under this Act along with earnings and profits. We will verify the amount declared for earnings before we accept a return. We will accept any amount less than the original principal amount as a principal amount.
§ 1200.32
How often can funds be returned?
Tribes may return all or part of withdrawn funds no more than twice a year, beginning no sooner than six months after date of withdrawal, except with approval of the Secretary.
§ 1200.33
How can funds be returned?
Funds may be returned either as cash or securities, which meet the requirements for investments in 25 U.S.C. 162a. Cash can be transferred to the US Treasury by Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT), or the Automated Clearing House (ACH) process. Tribes must coordinate the transfer of ownership in securities with us to ensure proper credit to the tribe. The securities must meet investment restrictions contained in 25 U.S.C. 162a.
§ 1200.34
Can a tribe withdraw redeposited funds?
Yes. If a tribe wishes to withdraw redeposited funds from Federal trust status, it must submit a written request to do so, accompanied by a new resolution and any revisions it wishes to make in its original management plan.

# Subpart D—Technical Assistance
§ 1200.40
How will the Department provide technical assistance for tribes?
(a) We will provide direct or contract technical assistance, in accordance with appropriations availability to tribes for developing, implementing, and managing Indian trust fund investment plans. We will ensure that our legal, financial and other expertise is made fully available to advise tribes in developing, implementing, and managing investment plans.
(b) We may award grants to tribes for developing and implementing plans for investing Indian tribal trust funds.
(c) Tribes may also obtain technical assistance on their own.
§ 1200.41
What types of technical assistance are available?
The types of technical assistance include: investment planning; accounting; selection of investment managers; monitoring of investments; asset management; or other assistance appropriate to support funds withdrawal.
§ 1200.42
Who can provide technical assistance?
A sample of competent providers includes any of the following entities with the appropriate skills and capabilities: available DOI or OST staff; intertribal organizations; public agencies; and contracted private investment firms.
§ 1200.43
How can a tribe apply for technical assistance?
(a) Tribes wishing technical assistance may request it by sending us a letter along with a tribal resolution outlining the technical assistance required, tribal resources which may be applied to the need, and suggested provider, if known. The resolution must state clearly that the assistance is needed for developing, implementing, or managing an investment plan under the provisions of this authority.
(b) Tribes requesting funds for technical assistance must send a completed SF-424, APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE, and SF-424A, BUDGET INFORMATION, along with a tribal resolution, detailing the assistance specifically requested, and the suggested provider to our address in § 1200.13.
(c) We will make grants subject to funds availability. We will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
concerning the availability of funding, deadlines for grants, the application process, and approval criteria. If funding is limited, grants will be awarded based on criteria that we feel will best meet the intent of the Act. We will consult with tribes in determining annual criteria. Unsolicited grant requests will not be accepted.
§ 1200.44
What action will the Department take on requests for technical assistance?
We will respond in writing to all requests for technical assistance and grants, advising of decision, availability of appropriate expertise and funding, and anticipated delivery of the service.
PARTS 1201-1299 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
25 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
25 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
575.4 Introductory text amended
8396
2021
25 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter III
575.4 Introductory text amended
7647
Chapter VI
1187 Added
50257
2022
25 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter III
514.4 (c) revised
54367
518 Authority citation revised
62986
518.2 Revised
62986
518.5 (b) introductory text revised
62986
518.7 (f) revised
62986
518.11 Revised
62986
518.13 Revised
62987
518.14 Revised
62987
522 Revised
57593
537.1 (a)(1) through (3) revised; (d) added
68048
559.2 (b) revised
43990
571 Technical correction
67363
571.12 Revised
57597
575.4 Introductory text amended
2550
585.4 (a) revised
76929
585.8 Added
76929
2023
25 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter III
502.14 Revised
55370
502.19 Revised
55370
502.25 Added
55371
502.26 Added
55371
537.1 Correction: (a)(1) and (2) reinstated; (a)(3) through (5) revised; (d) added
18393
556.4 Introductory text revised
55371
556.6 (a) revised
55371
556.8 Revised
55371
558.3 Revised
55371
558.4 Revised
55371
558.6 Revised
55371
575.4 Introductory text amended
41027
2024
25 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter III
575.4 Introductory text amended
2880
Chapter IV
700.725 Amended
18363
Chapter VI
1000 Revised
100245
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
25 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter III
575.4 Introductory text amended
5606
○
