224.160
How will reassumption affect a TERA?
224.161
How may reassumption affect the Tribe's ability to enter into a new TERA or to modify another TERA to administer additional activities or assume administration of activities that the Secretary previously reassumed?

# Subpart H—Rescission
224.170
What is the purpose of this subpart?
224.171
Who may rescind a TERA?
224.172
May a Tribe rescind only some of the activities subject to a TERA while retaining a portion of those activities?
224.173
How does a Tribe rescind a TERA?
224.174
When does a voluntary rescission become effective?
224.175
How will rescission affect valid existing rights or lawful actions taken before the rescission?

# Subpart I—General Appeal Procedures
224.180
What is the purpose of this subpart?
224.181
Who may appeal Departmental decisions or inaction under this part?
224.182
What is the Initial Appeal Process?
224.183
What other administrative appeals processes also apply?
224.184
How do other administrative appeals processes apply?
224.185
When are decisions under this part effective?

# Subpart J—Alternative to TERAs: Tribal Energy Development Organization (TEDO) Certification
224.200
What is the purpose of this subpart?
224.201
What must an application for certification as a Tribal energy development organization (TEDO) include?
224.202
How must a Tribe submit an application for certification of a TEDO?
224.203
What must the Secretary do upon receipt of an application for certification as a TEDO?
224.204
What criteria will the Secretary use to determine whether to approve an application for certification of a TEDO?
224.205
What must the Secretary do upon approval of an application for certification?
224.206
What is the effect of a TEDO receiving certification?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2 and 9; 25 U.S.C. 3501-3504; Pub. L. 109-58; Pub. L. 115-325.

# Source:
73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 224 appear at 84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 224.10
What is the purpose of this part?
This part:
(a) Establishes procedures by which a Tribe, at its discretion, may enter into and manage leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way for purposes of energy resource development on Tribal land; and
(b) Describes the process for obtaining, implementing, and enforcing a Tribal energy resource agreement (TERA) that will allow a Tribe to enter into individual leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way without obtaining Secretarial approval.
§ 224.20
How will the Secretary interpret and implement this part and the Act?
(a) The Secretary will interpret and implement this part and the Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self-Determination Act (the Act) in accordance with the self-determination and energy development provisions and policies in the Act.
(b) The Secretary will liberally construe this part and the Act for the benefit of Tribes to implement the Federal policy of self-determination. The Secretary will construe any ambiguities in this part or the Act in favor of the Tribe to implement a TERA as authorized by this part and the Act.
§ 224.30
What definitions apply to this part?
Act
means the Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self-Determination Act of 2005, as promulgated in Title V of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Public Law 109-58, 25 U.S.C. 3501-3504, and as amended by the Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self-Determination Act Amendments of 2017, Public Law 115-325.
Application
means the application submitted for a TERA under subpart B.
Business agreement
means:
(1) Any permit, contract, joint venture, option, or other agreement that furthers any activity related to locating, producing, transporting, or marketing energy resources on Tribal land;
(2) Any amendment, supplement, or other modification to such an agreement; or
(3) Any other business agreement entered into or subject to administration under a TERA.
Days
mean calendar days in computing any period prescribed or allowed by the Act and this part:
(1) Do not include the day of the event from which the period begins to run;
(2) Include the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday; and
(3) When the period prescribed or allowed is less than 11 days, exclude intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays from the computation.
Decision Deadline
means the end of the 120-day period within which the Secretary will make a decision about a petition submitted by an interested party under subpart E. The Secretary may extend this deadline for up to 120 days.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Designated Tribal Official
means the official designated in a Tribe's pre-application consultation request, application, or agreement to assist in scheduling consultations or to receive communications from the Secretary to the Tribe regarding the status of a TERA or activities under a TERA.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Indian Energy and Economic Development or the Secretary's designee, authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary.
Energy Resources
means both renewable and nonrenewable energy sources, including, but not limited to, natural gas, oil, uranium, coal, nuclear, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, and hydrologic resources.
Imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset
means an immediate threat of devaluation, degradation, damage, or loss of a physical trust asset, as determined by the Secretary, caused by the noncompliance of a Tribe or third party with a TERA or applicable Federal laws.
Interested party
means a person or entity who has filed a petition with the Secretary under subpart E seeking review of a Tribe's compliance with a TERA and who meets the criteria in § 224.101.
Lease
means a written agreement, or modification of a written agreement, between a Tribe and a tenant or lessee, whereby the tenant or lessee is granted a right to possession of Tribal land or energy mineral resources for purposes of energy resource development.
Petitioner
means a person or entity who has filed a petition under subpart E with a Tribe or the Secretary seeking review of a Tribe's compliance under a TERA. A petitioner is not considered to be an interested party unless the petitioner meets the criteria in § 224.101.
Physical trust asset
means a physical asset held in trust by the United States for a Tribe or individual Indian or by a Tribe or individual Indian subject to a restriction against alienation under the laws of the United States. “Physical trust asset” does not include:
(1) Any improvements (for example, wells or structures) to the assets held in trust or restricted status; or
(2) Monetary assets.
Public
means one or more natural or legal persons, and their associations, organizations, or groups; or Federal, State, Tribal and local government agencies; or private industry and their associations, organizations, or groups.
Qualified Tribe
means a Tribe with Tribal land that has—
(1) For a period of not less than 3 consecutive years ending on the date on which the Tribe submits the application, carried out a contract or compact relating to the management of tribal land or natural resources under title I or IV of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
) without material audit exception (or without any material audit exceptions that were not corrected within the 3-year period); or
(2) Substantial experience in the administration, review, or evaluation of energy resource leases or agreements or has otherwise substantially participated in the administration, management, or development of energy resources located on the Tribal land of the Indian Tribe.
Right-of-way
means an easement, right, or other authorization over Tribal lands, granted or subject to administration under a TERA, for a pipeline or electric transmission or distribution line that serves a facility located on Tribal land that is related to energy resource development.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary's designee.
TERA
means Tribal energy resource agreement.
Tribal energy development organization
or
TEDO
means:
(1) Any enterprise, partnership, consortium, corporation, or other type of business organization that is engaged in the development of energy resources and is wholly owned by a Tribe, including but not limited to an organization incorporated under section 17 of the Indian Reorganization Act, 25 U.S.C. 5124 or section 3 of the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act, 49 Stat, 1967, chapter 831; and
(2) Any organization of two or more entities, at least one of which is a Tribe, that has the written consent of the governing bodies of all Tribes participating in the organization, to apply for a grant, loan, or other assistance under 25 U.S.C. 3502 or to enter into a lease or business agreement with, or acquire a right-of-way from, a Tribe under 25 U.S.C. 3504(a)(2)(A)(ii) or (b)(2)(b).
Tribal governing body
means a Tribe's governing entity, such as Tribal council or Tribal business committee, as established under Tribal or Federal law and recognized by the Secretary.
Tribal land
means any land or interests in land owned by a Tribe or Tribes, title to which is held in trust by the United States, or is subject to a restriction against alienation under the laws of the United States. For the purposes of this part, Tribal land includes land taken into trust or subject to restrictions on alienation under the laws of the United States after the effective date of the agreement.
Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, except a Native Corporation as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1602, as evidenced by inclusion of the Tribe on the list of recognized Tribes published by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 5131.
Violation or breach
means any breach or other violation by another party of any provision in a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way under a TERA or any activity or occurrence under a lease business agreement or right-of-way that constitutes a violation of Federal or Tribal environmental law.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.40
How does the Act or a TERA affect the Secretary's trust responsibility?
(a) The Act (25 U.S.C. 3504(e)(6)) preserves the Secretary's trust responsibilities relating to mineral and other trust resources and requires the Secretary to act in good faith and in the best interest of Indian Tribes.
(b) Neither the Act nor this part absolves the Secretary of responsibilities to Indian Tribes under the trust relationship, treaties, statutes, regulations, Executive Orders, agreements or other Federal law.
(c) The Act and this part preserve the Secretary's trust responsibility to ensure that the rights and interests of an Indian Tribe are protected if:
(1) Another party to a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way executed under an approved TERA violates any term of the lease, business agreement, or right-of-way, or any applicable Federal law; or
(2) Any provision of a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way violates the TERA under which it was executed.
(d) The United States is not liable for losses to any party (including any Tribe) for any negotiated term of, or any loss resulting from, the negotiated terms of a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way the Tribe executes under a TERA.
§ 224.41
When does the Secretary require agreement of more than one Tribe to approve a TERA?
When Tribal land held for the benefit of more than one Tribe is contemplated for inclusion in a TERA, each appropriate Tribal governing body must request a pre-application consultation meeting, and submit a resolution or formal act of the Tribal governing body approving the submission of any application. Each appropriate Tribal governing body must also sign the TERA, if it is approved.
§ 224.42
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect these regulations?
The information collected from the public is cleared and covered by OMB Control Number 1076-0167. The sections of this rule which have information collections are §§ 224.53, 224.57(d), 224.61, 224.63, 224.64, 224.65, 224.68(d), 224.76, 224.83, 224.87, 224.109, 224.112, 224.120(a), 224.139(b), 224.156, and 224.173. Please note that a Federal Agency may not
conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Obtaining Tribal Energy Resource Agreements
§ 224.50
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart establishes procedures for:
(a) Pre-application and application consultations and process;
(b) Requirements for the content of applications;
(c) Submittal of completed applications; and
(d) Secretarial review and processing of applications.

# Pre-application Consultation and the Form of Application
§ 224.51
What is a pre-application consultation between a Tribe and the Secretary?
(a) A Tribe interested in entering into a TERA should request a pre-application consultation by writing to the Secretary. The request should include the name and contact information for the Designated Tribal Official who will coordinate scheduling with the Secretary.
(b) Upon receiving a pre-application consultation request, the Secretary will contact the Designated Tribal Official within 30 days to schedule a pre-application consultation meeting. The Secretary may also initiate pre-application discussions with the Tribal governing body.
(c) At the pre-application consultation meeting, the Tribe and the Secretary may discuss any of the matters related to a future application including, but not limited to:
(1) The application process;
(2) The potential scope of the Tribe's future application, including any regulatory or administrative activities that the Tribe anticipates exercising;
(3) The required content of an application for a TERA;
(4) The energy resource the Tribe anticipates developing;
(5) The Tribe's capacity to manage and regulate the energy resource development the Tribe identifies;
(6) Potential opportunities for funding capacity-building and other activities related to the energy resource the Tribe anticipates developing under a TERA; and
(7) Any other matters applicable to this part, the Act, and the Tribe.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.52
What may a Tribe include in a TERA?
A TERA under this part:
(a) May include development of all or part of a Tribe's energy resources;
(b) Must specify the type of energy resource included;
(c) May include assumption by the Tribe of certain activities normally carried out by the Department, except for inherently Federal functions; and
(d) Must specify the services or resources related to the specific activity related to energy resource development that the Tribe proposes to assume from the Department.
§ 224.53
What must an application for a TERA contain?
(a) An application for a TERA must contain all of the following:
(1) A proposed TERA between the Tribe and the Secretary, signed by the authorized representative of the Tribe, that contains the provisions required by § 224.63;
(2) A map, legal description, and general description of the Tribal land that the Tribe intends to include in the TERA;
(3) A statement that meets the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section;
(4) Documentation that the Tribe meets the definition of “qualified Tribe” in § 224.30;
(5) A statement of the scope of administrative activities that the Tribe intends to conduct and an explanation of how that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(6) A copy of the resolution or formal action of the Tribal governing body or bodies under § 224.41 that approves submission of an application for a TERA; and
(7) A designation of, and contact information for, the Designated Tribal Official who will receive notifications from the Secretary or the Secretary regarding the status of the TERA application.
(b) The statement required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section must:
(1) If applicable, state that the Tribe retains the option of entering into energy-related leases or agreements under laws other than the Act for any Tribal land that the TERA includes; and
(2) State one of the following:
(i) The Tribe intends the TERA to include all Tribal land, energy resources, and categories of energy-related leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way; or
(ii) The Tribe intends the TERA to include only certain Tribal land, energy resources, or categories of energy-related leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way in the TERA. In this case, the statement must specify and describe the Tribal land, energy resources, or categories of energy-related leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way that the Tribe intends to include in the TERA.
(3) State the Tribe's intent to amend or modify leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way that exist when a TERA is approved if those activities are directly related to the activities authorized by the TERA. The Tribe's ability to amend or modify such leases, business agreements or rights-of-way requires the agreement of the other parties to the lease, business agreement or rights-of-way, which must be stated in the TERA.
(c) The statement required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section must describe the amount of administrative activities related to the permitting, approval, and monitoring of activities, as applicable, that the Tribe proposes to undertake under any lease, business agreement, or right-of-way the Tribe executes under an approved TERA.
(1) If the Tribe proposes to regulate activities, the Tribe must state its intent and describe the scope of the Tribe's plan for such administration and management.
(2) The Tribe's intended scope of administrative responsibilities may not include the responsibilities of the Federal Government under the Endangered Species Act or other inherently Federal functions.
(3) If the Tribe intends to regulate activities, it should also describe the regulatory activities it desires to assume in the geographical area identified in § 224.53(c)(2) with respect to leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way that exist when a TERA is approved.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019; 86 FR 27808, May 24, 2021]

# Processing Applications
§ 224.54
How must a Tribe submit an application?
A Tribe must submit an application and all supporting documents in a searchable portable document format (PDF) to
TERA@bia.gov.
[84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.55
Is information a Tribe submits throughout the TERA process under this part subject to disclosure to third parties?
The requirements of this section implement the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) (FOIA) and 43 CFR part 2:
(a) Information a Tribe submits to the Department throughout the TERA process under this part may be subject to disclosure to third parties under FOIA unless a FOIA exemption or exception applies or other provisions of law protect the information.
(b) A Tribe may, but is not required to, designate information it submits as confidential commercially or financially sensitive information, as applicable, in any submissions it makes throughout the TERA process, including, but not limited to:
(1) Pre-application information;
(2) Application information
(3) A final proposed TERA;
(4) Any amendments to a TERA; and
(5) Leases, business agreements, and grants of right-of-way executed under an approved TERA.
(c) Upon receipt of a FOIA request for records that contain commercial or financial information a Tribe has submitted under the TERA process, as required by 43 CFR part 2 the Department will provide the Tribe, as submitter, with written notice of the FOIA request if:
(1) The Tribe has designated the information as confidential commercial or financial information; or
(2) The Department has reason to believe that the information requested may be protected under FOIA Exemption 4 (trade secrets and commercial or financial information which is obtained from a person and is privileged or confidential).
(d) The notice to the Tribe will:
(1) Include a copy of the FOIA request;
(2) Describe the information requested or include copies of the pertinent records;
(3) Advise the Tribe of procedures for objecting to the release of the requested information and specify the time limit for the Tribe's response;
(4) Give the Tribe no less than ten (10) working days from the Department's notice to object to the release and explain the basis for objection, if any;
(5) Advise the Tribe that:
(i) Information contained in the Tribe's objections may be subject to disclosure under FOIA if the Department receives a FOIA request for it; and
(ii) If the Tribe's objections contain commercial or financial information and a requestor asks for the objections under FOIA, the same notification procedures as above will apply;
(6) Advise the Tribe that it is the Department, rather than the Tribe, that is responsible for deciding whether the information will be released or withheld;
(7) If the Tribe designated the information as commercial or financial information 10 or more years before the FOIA request, the Department will request the Tribe's views on whether the Tribe still considers the information to be confidential;
(e) If the Tribe has any objection to disclosure of the information, the Tribe must submit a detailed written statement to the Department including the following:
(1) The justification for withholding any portion of the information under any exemption of FOIA, and if the applicable exemption is Exemption 4, the Tribe must submit a specific and detailed discussion of:
(i) Whether the Federal government required the information to be submitted, and, if so, how substantial competitive harm or other business harm would likely result from release of the information; or
(ii) Whether the Tribe provided the information voluntarily and, if so, how the information fits into a category of information that the Tribe customarily does not release to the public;
(2) A certification that the information is confidential, has not been disclosed to the public by the Tribe, and is essentially non-public because it is not routinely available to the public from other sources;
(3) If not already provided, a Tribal contact telephone and fax number so that the Department can communicate with the Tribe about the FOIA request;
(f) The Department will review and consider all objections to release that are received within the time limits specified in the notice to the Tribe, and if the Tribe does not respond within the time limits specified in the notice, the Department will presume that the Tribe has no objection to release of the information;
(g) If the Department decides to release the information over the objection of the Tribe, it will notify the Tribe in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, and will include copies of the records the Department intends to release and the reasons for deciding to release them. The notice will also inform the Tribe that it intends to release the records within 10 working days after the Tribe's receipt of the notice.
§ 224.56
What is the effect of the Secretary's receipt of a qualified Tribe's complete application?
The Secretary's receipt of a qualified Tribe's complete application begins a 270-day statutorily mandated period during which the Secretary must approve or disapprove a proposed TERA.
The TERA takes effect upon the 271st day after the Secretary's receipt of a complete application from a qualified Tribe, unless the Secretary approves the TERA to take effect on an earlier date, or the Secretary disapproves the application before that date.
[84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.57
What must the Secretary do upon receipt of an application?
(a) Upon receiving an application for a TERA, the Secretary must:
(1) Promptly notify the Designated Tribal Official in writing that the Secretary has received the application and the date it was received;
(2) Within 30 days from the date of receiving the application, determine whether the application is complete; and
(3) Take the following actions:
If the Secretary determines that . . .
Then the Secretary must . . .
(i) The application is complete
(A) Issue a written notice and a request for an application consultation meeting to the Designated Tribal Official; and
(B) Identify in the written notice any financial assistance available from the Secretary to assist in implementing the TERA, including environmental review of individual projects; and
(C) If appropriate, notify other Departmental bureaus and offices of receiving the application and provide copies.
(ii) The application is not complete
(A) Issue a written notice to the Designated Tribal Official that the application is not complete;
(B) Specify the additional information the Tribe is required to submit to make the application complete; and
(C) Start the 270-day review period only when the Secretary receives a complete application.
(b) Unless the Secretary notifies the Designated Tribal Official during the 30-day review period that the application is not complete, the application is presumed to be complete and the 270-day review period under 25 U.S.C. 3504(e)(2)(A) of the Act will begin as of the date that the application was received.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69611, Dec. 18, 2019]

# Application Consultation Meeting
§ 224.58
What is an application consultation meeting?
An application consultation meeting is a meeting held at the Tribe's headquarters between the Secretary and the Tribal governing body and any other representatives that the Tribe may designate to discuss the TERA application. The Secretary will designate representatives of appropriate Departmental offices or bureaus to attend the application consultation meeting, as necessary. The Tribe may record the meeting. The meeting will:
(a) Be held at the earliest practicable time after the Secretary receives a Tribe's complete application;
(b) Include a thorough discussion of the Tribe's application;
(c) Identify the specific services consistent with the Secretary's ongoing trust responsibility and available resources that the Department would provide to the Tribe upon the approval of a TERA;
(d) Include a discussion of the relationship of the Tribe to other Federal agencies with responsibilities for implementing or ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way and applicable Federal laws;
(e) Include a discussion of the relationship of the Tribe to its members, to State and local governments, and to non-Indians who may be affected by approval of a TERA or by leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way that the Tribe may enter into or grant under an approved TERA;
(f) Include a discussion of the Tribal administrative, financial, technical, and managerial capacities needed to carry out the Tribe's obligations under a TERA; and
(g) Include a discussion of the form of the TERA and the timing and relative responsibilities of the parties for its preparation.
§ 224.59
How will the Secretary use the results of the application consultation meeting?
The Secretary will use the information gathered during the application consultation meeting in conjunction with information provided through
§§ 224.53 and 224.63 to determine whether to recommend any revisions to the proposed TERA.
[84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.60
What will the Secretary provide to the Tribe after the application consultation meeting?
Within 30 days following the meeting with the Tribe, the Secretary will provide to the Designated Tribal Official a written report on the application consultation meeting. The report must include the Secretary's recommendations, if any, for revising the proposed TERA that was submitted as part of the Tribe's application.
§ 224.61
What will the Tribe provide to the Secretary after receipt of the Secretary's report on the application consultation meeting?
If the Tribe wishes to proceed with the application, the Tribe must submit a final proposed TERA to the Secretary within 45 days following the date of the Tribe's receipt of the Secretary's report on the application consultation meeting.
§ 224.62
May a final proposed TERA differ from the original proposed TERA?
The final proposed TERA may or may not contain provisions that differ from the original proposed TERA submitted with the application. In either case, the 270-day review period will begin to run on the date the original complete application was received (under § 224.57).
[84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]

# TERA Requirements
§ 224.63
What provisions must a TERA contain?
A TERA must contain all the elements required by this section.
(a) A provision for the Secretary's periodic review and evaluation of the Tribe's performance under a TERA.
(b) A provision that recognizes the authority of the Secretary, upon a finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, to take actions the Secretary determines to be necessary to protect the asset, including reassumption under subparts F and G of this part.
(c) A provision under which the Tribe establishes and ensures compliance with an environmental review process for leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way which, at a minimum:
(1) Informs the public and provides opportunity for public comment on the environmental impacts of the approval of the lease, business agreement or right-of-way;
(2) Provides for Tribal responses to relevant and substantive public comments before Tribal approval of the lease, business agreement or right-of-way;
(3) Provides for sufficient Tribal administrative support and technical capability to carry out the environmental review process; and
(4) Develops adequate Tribal oversight of energy resource development activities under any lease, business agreement or right-of-way under a TERA that any other party conducts to determine whether the activities comply with the TERA and applicable Federal and Tribal environmental laws.
(d) Provisions that require, with respect to any lease, business agreement, or right-of-way approved under a TERA, all of the following:
(1) Express limitations on duration that meet the restrictions of the Act and this Part under § 224.86;
(2) Mechanisms for amendment, transfer, and renewal;
(3) Mechanisms for obtaining, reporting and evaluating the economic return to the Tribe;
(4) Assurances of the Tribe's compliance with all applicable environmental laws;
(5) Requirements that the lessee, operator, or right-of-way grantee will comply with all applicable environmental laws;
(6) Identification of Tribal representatives with the authority to approve a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way and the related energy development activities that would occur under a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way;
(7) Public notification that a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way has received final Tribal approval;
(8) A process for consultation with affected States regarding off-reservation impacts, if any, identified under paragraph (c) of this section;
(9) A description of remedies for breach;
(10) A statement that any provision that violates an express term or requirement of the TERA is null and void;
(11) A statement that if the Secretary determines that any provision that violates an express term or requirement of the TERA is material, the Secretary may suspend or rescind the lease, business agreement, or right-of-way, or take any action the Secretary determines to be in the best interest of the Tribe, including, with the consent of the parties, revising the nonconforming provisions so that they conform to the intent of the applicable portion of the TERA; and
(12) A statement that the lease, business agreement, or right-of-way subject to a TERA, unless otherwise provided, goes into effect when the Tribe delivers executed copies of the lease, business agreement, or right-of-way to the Secretary by first class mail return receipt requested or express delivery. The parties to a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way may agree in writing that any provision of their contract may have retroactive application.
(e) Citations to any applicable Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures that:
(1) Provide opportunity for the public to comment on and to participate in public hearings, if any, under paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(2) Provide remedies that petitioning parties must exhaust before filing a petition with the Secretary under subpart E of this part.
(f) Provisions that require a Tribe to provide the Secretary with citations to any Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures the Tribe adopts after the effective date of a TERA that establish, amend, or supplement Tribal remedies that petitioning parties must exhaust before filing a petition with the Secretary under subpart E of this part.
(g) Provisions that designate a person or entity, together with contact information, authorized by the Tribe to maintain and disseminate to requesting members of the public current copies of Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures that establish or describe Tribal remedies that petitioning parties must exhaust before instituting appeals under subpart E of this part.
(h) Identification of financial assistance, if any, that the Secretary has agreed to provide to the Tribe to assist in implementation of the TERA, including the Tribe's environmental review of individual energy development activities.
(i) Provisions that require a Tribe to notify the Secretary and the Secretary in writing, as soon as practicable after the Tribe receives notice, of a violation or breach as defined in this Part.
(j) Provisions that require the Tribe and the Tribe's financial experts to adhere to Government auditing standards and to applicable continuing professional education requirements.
(k) Provisions that require the Tribe to submit to the Secretary information and documentation of payments made directly to the Tribe, if any. These provisions enable the Secretary to discharge the trust responsibility of the United States to enforce the terms of, and protect the rights of the Tribe under, a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way. Required documentation must include documents evidencing proof of payment such as cancelled checks; cash receipt vouchers; copies of money orders or cashiers checks; or verification of electronic payments.
(l) Provisions that ensure the creation, maintenance and preservation of records related to leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way and performance of activities a Tribe assumed under a TERA sufficient to facilitate the Secretary's periodic review of the TERA. The Secretary will use these records as part of the periodic review and evaluation process under § 224.132. Approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. Chapters 29, 31, and 33) provide a framework the Tribe may use to ensure that its records under a TERA adequately document essential transactions, furnish information necessary to protect its legal and financial rights, and enable the Secretary to discharge the trust responsibility if:
(1) Any other party violates the terms of any lease, business agreement, or right-of-way; or
(2) Any provision of a lease, business agreement or right-of-way violates the TERA.
(m) At the option of the Tribe, identify which functions, if any, the Tribe intends to conduct to authorize any operational or development activities pursuant to a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way approved by the Tribe.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.64
How may a Tribe assume management of development of different types of energy resources?
(a) In order for a Tribe to assume authority for approving leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way for the development of another energy resource that is not included in the TERA, a Tribe must submit to the Secretary:
(1) An amendment to the TERA that specifies and describes the additional Tribal land, energy resources, or categories of energy-related leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way that the Tribe intends to include in the TERA; and
(2) A copy of the resolution or formal action of the Tribal governing body, or Tribal governing bodies if the land is held for the benefit of more than one Tribe, that approves submission of the TERA amendment.
(b) Submission of the documents in paragraph (a) of this section will trigger the public notice and opportunity for comment consistent with § 224.67.
(c) The Secretary will process the amendment in accordance with §§ 224.67 through 224.78.
(d) Each Tribal governing body that is party to the TERA must sign the TERA amendment upon approval.
[84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.65
How may a Tribe assume additional activities under a TERA?
A Tribe may assume additional activities related to the development of the same type of energy resource included in a TERA by negotiating with the Secretary an amendment to the existing TERA to include the additional activities.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.66
How may a Tribe reduce the scope of the TERA?
A Tribe may reduce the scope of the TERA by negotiating with the Secretary an amendment to the existing TERA to eliminate an activity assumed under the TERA or a type of energy resource development managed under the TERA. Any such reduction in scope must include the return of all relevant Departmental resources transferred under the TERA and any relevant records and documents.

# Public Notification and Comment
§ 224.67
What must the Secretary do upon the Secretary's receipt of a final proposed TERA?
(a) Within 10 days of the Secretary's receipt of a final proposed TERA, the Secretary must submit a notice for publication in the
Federal Register
advising the public:
(1) That the Secretary is considering a final proposed TERA for approval or disapproval: and
(2) Of any National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review the Secretary is conducting.
(b) The
Federal Register
notice will:
(1) Contain information advising the public how to request and receive copies of or participate in any NEPA reviews, as prescribed in subpart C of this part, related to approval of the final proposed TERA; and
(2) Contain information advising the public how to comment on a final proposed TERA.
§ 224.68
How will the Secretary use public comments?
(a) The Secretary will review and consider public comments in deciding to approve or disapprove the final proposed TERA; and
(b) The Secretary will provide copies of the comments to the Designated Tribal Official;
(c) Upon mutual agreement between the Tribe and the Secretary, the Tribe
may make changes in the final proposed TERA based on the comments received; and
(d) If the Tribe revises the final proposed TERA based on public comments, the Tribal governing body must approve the changes, the authorized representative of the Tribe must sign the final proposed TERA as revised, and the Tribe must send the revised final proposed TERA to the Secretary.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]

# Subpart C—Approval of Tribal Energy Resource Agreements
§ 224.70
Will the Secretary review a proposed TERA under the National Environmental Policy Act?
Yes, the Secretary will conduct a review under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of the potential impacts on the quality of the human environment that might arise from approving a final proposed TERA. The scope of the Secretary's evaluation will be limited to the scope of the TERA. The public comment period, when required, under the NEPA review will occur concurrently with the public comment period for a TERA under § 224.67.
§ 224.71
What standards will the Secretary use to decide to approve a final proposed TERA?
The Secretary must approve a final proposed TERA unless:
(a) The Tribe does not meet the definition of a “qualified Tribe” in § 224.30;
(b) A provision of the TERA violates applicable Federal law (including regulations) or a treaty applicable to the Tribe; or
(c) The TERA fails to include the provisions required by § 224.63.
[84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§§ 224.72-224.73
[Reserved]
§ 224.74
When must the Secretary approve or disapprove a final proposed TERA?
The Secretary must approve or disapprove a final proposed TERA within 270 days of the Secretary's receipt of a complete application for a TERA. If the Secretary fails to approve or disapprove a final proposed TERA within 270 days, the TERA takes effect on the 271st day after the Secretary's receipt of a complete application from a qualified Tribe.
[84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.75
What must the Secretary do upon approval or disapproval of a final proposed TERA?
Within 10 days of the Secretary's approval or disapproval of a final proposed TERA, the Secretary must notify the Tribal governing body in writing and take the following actions:
If the Secretary's decision is . . .
Then the Secretary will . . .
(a) To approve the final proposed TERA
(1) Sign the TERA making it effective on the date of signature, and return the signed TERA to the Tribal governing body; and
(2) Maintain a copy of the TERA and any subsequent amendments or supplements to the TERA.
(b) To disapprove the final proposed TERA
Send the Tribe a notice of disapproval that must include:
(1) A detailed written explanation of each reason for the disapproval;
(2) The changes or other actions required to address each reason for the Secretary's disapproval;
(3) An opportunity to revise and resubmit the TERA: and
(4) A statement that the decision is a final agency action and is subject to judicial review.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.76
Upon notification of disapproval, may a Tribe re-submit a revised final proposed TERA?
Yes, within 45 days of receiving the notice of disapproval, or a later date as the Secretary and the Tribe agree to in writing, the Tribe may re-submit a revised final proposed TERA, approved by the Tribal governing body and signed by the Tribe's authorized representative, to the Secretary that addresses the Secretary's concerns. The Secretary must approve or disapprove the revised final proposed TERA within 90 days of the Secretary's receipt of the revised final proposed TERA. If the Secretary does not approve or disapprove the revised proposed TERA within that time, it will take effect on the 91st day. Within 10 days of the Secretary's approval or disapproval of a
revised final proposed TERA, the Secretary must notify the Tribal governing body in writing and take the following actions:
If the Secretary's decision is . . .
Then the Secretary will . . .
(a) To approve the revised final proposed TERA
(1) Sign the TERA making it effective on the date of signature, and return the signed TERA to the Tribal governing body; and
(2) Maintain a copy of the TERA and any subsequent amendments or supplements to the TERA.
(b) To disapprove the revised final proposed TERA
Send the Tribe a notice of disapproval that must include:
(1) The reasons for the disapproval; and
(2) A statement that the decision is a final agency action and is subject to judicial review.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69612, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.77
Who may appeal the Secretary's decision on a final proposed TERA or a revised final proposed TERA?
Only a Tribe applying for a TERA may appeal the Secretary's decision to disapprove a final proposed TERA or a revised final proposed TERA in accordance with the appeal procedures contained in subpart I of this part. No other person or entity may appeal the Secretary's decision. The Secretary's decision to approve a final proposed TERA or a revised final proposed TERA is a final agency action.
§ 224.78
How long will a TERA remain in effect?
A TERA that takes effect under this part remains in effect to the extent any provision of the TERA is consistent with applicable Federal law (including regulations), unless and until either:
(a) The Secretary reassumes all activities included within a TERA without the consent of the Tribe under Subpart G; or
(b) The Tribe rescinds a TERA under Subpart H.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.79
Will the Secretary make non-expended amounts available to the Tribe?
Upon written request of a Tribe for whom an approved TERA is in effect, the Secretary will provide to the Tribe those amounts that the Secretary would otherwise have expended to carry out any program, function, service, or activity (or portion thereof) that the Secretary does not expend as a result of the Tribe carrying out the activities under a TERA. The Secretary will provide the Tribe with a full accounting of the amounts as calculated based on the specific terms of the TERA, the scope of the contracted functions, and applicable circumstances.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]

# Subpart D—Implementation of Tribal Energy Resource Agreements

# Applicable Authorities and Responsibilities
§ 224.80
Under what authority will a Tribe perform activities for energy resource development?
A Tribe will perform activities for energy resource development activities undertaken under a TERA under the Federal authorities provided in the approved TERA. Notwithstanding anything in this part or an approved TERA to the contrary, a Tribe will retain all sovereign and other powers it otherwise possesses.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.81
What laws are applicable to activities?
Federal and Tribal laws apply to activities under a TERA, unless otherwise specified in the TERA.
§ 224.82
What activities will the Department continue to perform after approval of a TERA?
After approval of a TERA, the Department will provide a Tribe:
(a) All activities that the Department performs unless the Tribe has assumed such activities under the TERA;
(b) Access to title status information and support services needed by a Tribe in the course of evaluating proposals for leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way;
(c) Coordination between the Tribe and the Department for ongoing maintenance of accurate real property records;
(d) Access to technical support services within the Department to assist the Tribe in evaluating the physical, economic, financial, cultural, social, environmental, and legal consequences of approving proposals for leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way under a TERA; and
(e) Assistance to ensure that third-party violations or breaches of the terms of leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way or applicable provisions of Federal law by third parties are handled appropriately.

# Leases, Business Agreements, and Rights-of-Way Under a TERA
§ 224.83
What must a Tribe do after executing a lease or business agreement, or granting a right-of-way?
Following the execution of a lease, business agreement, or grant of right-of-way under a TERA, a Tribe must:
(a) Inform the public of approval of the lease, business agreement, or right-of-way under the authority granted in the TERA; and
(b) Send a copy of the executed lease, business agreement, or right-of-way, or amendments, to the Secretary within one business day of execution. The copy must be sent by certified mail return receipt requested or by overnight delivery.
§ 224.84
When may a Tribe grant a right-of-way?
A Tribe may grant a right-of-way under a TERA if the grant of right-of-way is over tribal land and the right-of-way serves:
(a) An electric production, generation, transmission, or distribution facility (including a facility that produces electricity from renewable energy resources) located on tribal land;
(b) A facility located on tribal land that processes or refines energy resources; or
(c) The purposes, or facilitates in carrying out the purposes, of any lease or agreement entered into for energy resources development on tribal land.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.85
When may a Tribe enter into a lease or business agreement?
A Tribe may enter into a lease or business agreement for the purpose of energy resource development for:
(a) Exploration for, extraction of, or other development of the Tribe's energy mineral resources on tribal land including, but not limited to, marketing or distribution;
(b) Construction or operation of an electric production, generation, transmission, or distribution facility (including a facility that produces electricity from renewable energy resources) located on tribal land;
(c) Construction or operation of a facility to process or refine energy resources, at least a portion of which have been developed on tribal land; or
(d) Pooling, unitization, or communitization of the energy mineral resources of the Indian tribe located on tribal land with any other energy mineral resource (including energy mineral resources owned by the Indian tribe or an individual Indian in fee, trust, or restricted status or by any other persons or entities) if the owner, or, if appropriate, lessee, of the resources has consented or consents to the pooling, unitization, or communitization of the other resources under any lease or agreement.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.86
Are there limits on the duration of leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way?
(a) The duration of leases, business agreements, and rights-of-way entered into under a TERA are limited as follows:
(1) For leases and business agreements, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, 30 years;
(2) For leases for production of oil resources and gas resources, or both, 10 years and as long after as oil or gas production continues in paying quantities; and
(3) For rights-of-way, 30 years.
(b) A lease or business agreement a Tribe enters into, or a right-of-way a Tribe grants may be renewed at the discretion of the Tribe as long as the
TERA remains in effect and the approved activities have not been rescinded by the Tribe or suspended or reassumed by the Department.

# Violation or Breach
§ 224.87
What are the obligations of a Tribe if it discovers a violation or breach?
As soon as practicable after discovering or receiving notice of a violation or breach of a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way of a Federal or Tribal environmental law resulting from an activity undertaken by a third party under a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way, the Tribe must provide written notice to the Secretary describing:
(a) The nature of the violation or breach in reasonable detail;
(b) The corrective action taken or planned by the Tribe; and
(c) The proposed period for the corrective action to be completed.
§ 224.88
What must the Secretary do after receiving notice of a violation or breach from the Tribe?
After receiving notice of a violation or breach from the Tribe, the Secretary will:
(a) Review the notice and conduct an investigation under § 224.135(b) including, as necessary:
(1) An on-site inspection; and
(2) A review of relevant records, including transactions and reports.
(b) If the Secretary determines, after the investigation, that a violation or breach is not causing or will not cause imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Secretary will review, for concurrence or disapproval, the corrective action to be taken or imposed by the Tribe and the proposed period for completion of the corrective action;
(c) If the Secretary determines, after the investigation, that a violation or breach is causing or will cause imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Secretary will proceed under the imminent jeopardy provisions of subpart F of this part.
§ 224.89
What procedures will the Secretary use to enforce leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way?
(a) The Secretary and a Tribe will consult with each other regarding enforcement of and Secretarial assistance needed to enforce leases, business agreements, or rights-of-way entered into under a TERA. When appropriate, the Secretary will:
(1) Use the notification and enforcement procedures established in 25 CFR parts 162, 211 and 225 to ensure compliance with leases and business agreements; and
(2) Use the notification and enforcement procedures of 25 CFR part 169 to ensure compliance with rights-of-way.
(b) All enforcement remedies established in 25 CFR parts 162, 211, 225, and 169 are available to the Secretary.

# Subpart E—Interested Party Petitions
§ 224.100
May a person or entity ask the Secretary to review a Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
In accordance with this subpart, a person or entity that may be an interested party may submit to the Secretary a petition to review a Tribe's compliance with a TERA. However, before filing a petition with the Secretary, a person or entity that may be an interested party must first exhaust Tribal remedies, if a Tribe has provided for such remedies. If a Tribe has not provided for Tribal remedies, a person or entity that may be an interested party may file a petition directly with the Secretary.
§ 224.101
Who is an interested party?
For the purposes of this part, an interested party is a person or entity that the Secretary determines has demonstrated with substantial evidence that an interest of the person or entity has sustained, or will sustain, an adverse environmental impact as a result of a Tribe's failure to comply with a TERA.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.102
Must a Tribe establish a comment or hearing process for addressing environmental concerns?
Yes. The Act (25 U.S.C. 3504(e)(2)(C)(iii)(I), (II) and 25 U.S.C. 3504(e)(2)(B)(iii)(X)) and subpart B of this part require a Tribe to establish an environmental review process under a TERA that:
(a) Ensures that the public is notified about and has an opportunity to comment on the environmental impacts of proposed Tribal action to be taken under a TERA;
(b) Requires that the Tribe respond to relevant and substantive comments about the environmental impacts of a proposed Tribal action before the Tribe approves a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way; and
(c) Provides for a process for consultation with any affected States regarding off-reservation environmental impacts, if any, resulting from approval of a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way.
§ 224.103
Must a Tribe establish other public participation processes?
No. Except for the environmental review process required by the Act and § 224.63(b)(1), a Tribe is not required to establish a process for public participation concerning non-environmental issues in a TERA or leases, business agreements or rights-of-way undertaken under a TERA. However, a Tribe may elect to establish procedures that permit the public to participate in public hearings or that expand the scope of matters about which the public may comment.
§ 224.104
Must a Tribe enact Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures permitting a person or entity to allege that a Tribe is not complying with a TERA?
No. A Tribe is not required, but may elect, to enact Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures permitting a person or entity that may be an interested party to allege that a Tribe is not complying with its TERA.
§ 224.105
How may a person or entity obtain copies of Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures that would permit an allegation of noncompliance with a TERA?
(a) A person or entity that may be an interested party may obtain copies of Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures that establish Tribal remedies that permit a person or entity to allege that the Tribe is not complying with its TERA by making a request to the Tribe in accordance with the TERA and § 224.63(g).
(b) Upon obtaining copies of Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures under subsection (a), a person or entity that may be an interested party may file a petition with the Tribe under those Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures.
(c) If the person or entity that may be an interested party files a petition alleging noncompliance with a TERA, the person or entity becomes a petitioner, and the Tribe must respond according to § 224.106.
§ 224.106
If a Tribe has enacted Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures for challenging Tribal action, how must the Tribe respond to a petition?
If a Tribe has enacted Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures under which a petitioner may file a petition alleging noncompliance with a TERA, the Tribe must:
(a) Within a reasonable time issue a final written decision under the Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures that addresses the claim. The decision may include a determination of whether the petitioner is an interested party;
(b) Provide a copy of its final written decision to the petitioner; and
(c) If the Tribe fails, within a reasonable period, to issue a written decision to a petition that a petitioner brings under applicable Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures the petitioner may file a petition with the Secretary.
§ 224.107
What must a petitioner do before filing a petition with the Secretary?
Before a petitioner may file a petition with the Secretary under this subpart, the petitioner must have exhausted all tribal remedies by participating in any tribal process under § 224.106, and available under the laws,
regulations, or procedures of the Tribe, including any tribal appeal process.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.108
May Tribes offer a resolution of a petitioner's claim?
Yes. In responding to a petition filed under Tribal laws, regulations or procedures, a Tribe may, with the petitioner's written consent, resolve the petitioner's claims.
§ 224.109
What must a petitioner claim or request in a petition filed with the Secretary?
In a petition filed with the Secretary, a petitioner must:
(a) Claim that the Tribe, through its action or inaction has failed to comply with terms or provisions of a TERA, and, as a result, the petitioner's interest has sustained or will sustain an adverse environmental impact.
(b) Request that the Secretary review the claims raised in the petition; and
(c) Request that the Secretary take whatever action is necessary to bring a Tribe into compliance with the TERA.
§ 224.110
What must a petition to the Secretary contain?
A petition must contain:
(a) The petitioner's name and contact information;
(b) Specific facts demonstrating that the petitioner is an interested party under § 224.101, including identification of the affected interest;
(c) Specific facts demonstrating that the petitioner exhausted Tribal remedies, if Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures permitted the petitioner to allege Tribal noncompliance with a TERA;
(d) A description of facts supporting the petitioner's allegation of the Tribe's noncompliance with a TERA;
(e) A description of the adverse environmental impact that the petitioner's interest has sustained or will sustain because of the Tribe's alleged noncompliance with the TERA;
(f) A copy of any written decision the Tribe issued responding to the petitioner's claims;
(g) If applicable, a statement that the Tribe has issued no written decision within a reasonable time related to a claim a petitioner has filed with the Tribe under applicable Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures;
(h) If applicable, a statement and supporting documentation that the Tribe did not respond to the petitioner's request under § 224.105(a) for copies of any Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures allowing the petitioner to allege that the Tribe is not complying with a TERA; and
(i) Any other information relevant to the petition.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.111
When may a petitioner file a petition with the Secretary?
(a) A petitioner may file a petition with the Secretary:
(1) By delivering the petition to the Secretary within 30 days of receiving the Tribe's final written decision addressing the allegation of noncompliance under applicable Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures;
(2) Within a reasonable period following the Tribe's constructive denial of the petition under § 224.106(c), and the Secretary will determine if the petition is timely in light of the applicable facts and circumstances; or
(3) The Tribe did not respond to the petitioner's request for copies of any Tribal laws, regulations, or procedures under § 224.105(a).
(b) A petitioner may file a petition directly with the Secretary if the Tribe has no Tribal laws, regulations or procedures that provide the petitioner an opportunity to allege Tribal noncompliance with a TERA.
§ 224.112
What must the Secretary do upon receipt of a petition?
Within 20 days after receiving a petition, the Secretary must:
(a) Notify the Tribe in writing that the Secretary has received a petition;
(b) Provide a copy of the complete petition to the Tribe;
(c) Initiate a petition consultation with the Tribe that will address the petitioner's allegation of a Tribe's noncompliance with a TERA and alternatives to resolve any noncompliance; and
(d) Notify the Tribe in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested,
when the petition consultation is complete.
§ 224.113
What must the Tribe do after it completes petition consultation with the Secretary?
(a) Within 45 days of receiving the Secretary's notice that the petition consultation is complete, the Tribe must respond to any claim made in the petition by submitting a written response to the Secretary; and
(b) Within a reasonable time after 45 days following the completion of the petition consultation process, the Tribe must cure or otherwise resolve each claim of noncompliance made in the petition.
§ 224.114
How may the Tribe address a petition in its written response?
In addition to responding to the petitioner's claims, the Tribe may also:
(a) Include its interpretation of relevant provisions of the TERA and other legal requirements;
(b) Discuss whether the petitioner is an interested party;
(c) State whether the petitioner has exhausted Tribal remedies, and if so, how; and
(d) Propose to cure or otherwise resolve the claims within the time frame in § 224.113(b).
§ 224.115
When in the petition process must the Secretary investigate a Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
The Secretary must investigate the petitioner's claims of the Tribe's noncompliance with a TERA only after making a threshold determination that the petitioner is an interested party and:
(a) The Tribe has denied or failed to respond to each claim made in the petition within the period under § 224.113(a); or
(b) The Tribe has failed, refused, or was unable to cure or otherwise resolve each claim made in the petition within a reasonable period, as determined by the Secretary, after the expiration of the period in § 224.113(b).
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.116
What is the time period in which the Secretary must investigate a Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
(a) If the Secretary determines under § 224.115 that one of the threshold determinations in § 224.114 has been met, then within 120 days of the Secretary's receipt of a petition, the Secretary must determine:
(1) Whether the petitioner is an interested party; and
(2) If the petitioner is an interested party, whether or not a Tribe is in compliance with the TERA as alleged in the petition;
(b) The Secretary may extend the time for the Tribe making the determinations in paragraph (a) of this section for up to 120 days in any case in which the Secretary determines that additional time is necessary to evaluate the claims in the petition and the Tribe's written response, if any. If the Secretary decides to extend the time, the Secretary must notify the petitioner and the Tribe in writing of the extension.
[84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.117
Must the Secretary make a determination of the Tribe's compliance with a TERA?
(a) Yes. Upon a finding that one of the threshold determinations in § 224.115 has been met, the Secretary must make a determination of the Tribe's compliance with a TERA within the time period in § 224.116.
(b) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe is in compliance with the TERA, the Secretary will notify the Tribe and the petitioner in writing;
(c) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe is not in compliance with the TERA, the Secretary will notify the Tribe and the petitioner in writing and, in addition, must provide the Tribe:
(1) A written determination that describes the manner in which the TERA has been violated together with a written notice of the violations;
(2) Notice of a reasonable opportunity to comply with the TERA; and
(3) Notice of the Tribe's opportunity for a hearing.
§ 224.118
How must the Tribe respond to the Secretary's notice of the opportunity for a hearing?
The Tribe must respond in writing to the Secretary's notice of the opportunity for a hearing within 20 days of receipt of the notice by requesting a hearing or declining to request a hearing. If the Tribe does not respond within the time period, the Secretary will proceed with making a decision without further input from the Tribe.
§ 224.119
What must the Secretary do when making a decision on a petition?
(a) The Secretary must issue a written decision to the Tribe and the petitioner stating the basis for the decision about the Tribe's compliance or noncompliance with the TERA within 30 days following:
(1) A hearing, if the Tribe requested a hearing;
(2) The Tribe's declining the opportunity for a hearing; or
(3) The Tribe's failure to respond to the opportunity for a hearing within 20 days of the Secretary's written notice of the opportunity for a hearing.
(b) If the Secretary decides that the Tribe is not in compliance with the TERA, the Secretary must:
(1) Include findings of fact and conclusions of law with respect to each claim made in the petition in the written decision to the Tribe; and
(2) Take action to ensure compliance with the TERA.
(c) The Secretary will dismiss any petition if the interested party who filed the petition has agreed with the Tribe to a resolution of the claims presented in the petition.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69613, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.120
What action may the Secretary take to ensure compliance with a TERA?
If the Secretary decides that a Tribe is not in compliance with a TERA, the Secretary may take only such action as the Secretary determines to be necessary to address the claims of noncompliance made in the petition including:
(a) Temporarily suspending any activity under a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way until the Tribe complies with the TERA; or
(b) Rescinding approval of part of the TERA, or
(c) Rescinding all of the TERA and recommending that the Secretary reassume activities under subpart G of this part.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69614, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.121
How may a Tribe or a petitioner appeal the Secretary's decision about the Tribe's compliance with the TERA?
A Tribe or a petitioner, or both, may appeal the Secretary's decision on the petition under § 224.119 to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs under subpart I of this part.

# Subpart F—Periodic Reviews
§ 224.130
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes how the Secretary and a Tribe will develop and perform the periodic review and evaluation required by the Act and by a TERA.
§ 224.131
What is a periodic review and evaluation?
A periodic review and evaluation is an examination the Secretary performs to monitor a Tribe's performance of activities associated with the development of energy resources and to review compliance with a TERA. During the TERA consultation, a Tribe and the Secretary will develop a periodic review and evaluation process that addresses the Tribe's specific circumstances and the terms and conditions of the Tribe's TERA. The Tribe will include the agreed-upon periodic review and evaluation process in its final proposed TERA.
§ 224.132
How does the Secretary conduct a periodic review and evaluation?
(a) The Secretary will conduct a periodic review and evaluation under the TERA, in consultation with the Tribe, and in cooperation with other Departmental bureaus and offices whose activities the Tribe assumed or that perform activities for the Tribe.
(b) The Secretary will communicate with the Designated Tribal Official throughout the process established by this section.
(c) During the periodic review and evaluation, the Secretary will:
(1) Review relevant records and documents, including transactions and reports the Tribe prepares under the TERA;
(2) Conduct on-site inspections as appropriate; and
(3) Review compliance with statutes and regulations applicable to activities undertaken under the TERA.
(d) Review the effect on physical trust assets resulting from activities undertaken under a TERA.
(e) Upon written request, the Tribe should provide the Secretary with records and documents relevant to the provisions of the TERA. In addition, the Tribe should identify any information in these submitted records and documents that is confidential, commercial and financial. Specific exceptions to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, or other statutory protections against disclosure, may apply and preclude disclosure of this information to third parties as provided for in § 224.55.
§ 224.133
What must the Secretary do after a periodic review and evaluation?
After a periodic review and evaluation, the Secretary must prepare a written report of the results and send the report to the Designated Tribal Official.
§ 224.134
How often must the Secretary conduct a periodic review and evaluation?
The Secretary must conduct a periodic review and evaluation annually during the first 3 years of a TERA. After the third annual review and evaluation, the Secretary and the Tribe may mutually agree to amend the TERA to conduct periodic reviews and evaluations once every 2 years.
§ 224.135
Under what circumstances may the Secretary conduct additional reviews and evaluations?
The Secretary may conduct additional reviews and evaluations:
(a) At a Tribe's request;
(b) As part of an investigation undertaken when the Tribe notifies the Secretary of a violation or breach;
(c) As part of an investigation undertaken because of a petition submitted under subpart E of this part;
(d) As follow-up to a determination that harm or the potential for harm to a physical trust asset, previously identified in a periodic review and evaluation, exists; or
(e) As the Secretary determines appropriate to carry out the Secretary's trust responsibilities.

# Noncompliance
§ 224.136
How will the Secretary's report address a Tribe's noncompliance?
This section applies if the Secretary conducts a review and evaluation or investigation of a notice of violation of Federal law or the terms of a TERA.
(a) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe has not complied with Federal law or the terms of a TERA, the Secretary's written report must include a determination of whether the Tribe's noncompliance has resulted in harm or the potential for harm to a physical trust asset.
(b) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe's noncompliance may cause harm or has caused harm to a physical trust asset, the Secretary must also determine whether the noncompliance cause imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset.
§ 224.137
What must the Secretary do if a Tribe's noncompliance has resulted in harm or the potential for harm to a physical trust asset?
If, because of the Tribe's noncompliance with Federal law or the terms of a TERA, the Secretary determines that there is harm or the potential for harm to a physical trust asset that does not rise to the level of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Secretary must:
(a) Document the issue in the written report of the review and evaluation;
(b) Report the issue in writing to the Tribal governing body;
(c) Report the issue in writing to the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs; and
(d) Determine what action, if any, the Secretary must take to protect the physical trust asset, which could include temporary suspension of the activity that resulted in non-compliance with the TERA or other applicable Federal laws or rescinding approval of all or part of the TERA.
§ 224.138
What must the Secretary do if a Tribe's noncompliance has caused imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset?
If the Secretary finds that a Tribe's noncompliance with a Federal law or the terms of a TERA has caused imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Secretary must:
(a) Immediately notify the Tribe by a telephone call to the Designated Tribal Official followed by a written notice by facsimile to the Designated Tribal Official and the Tribal governing body of the imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset. The notice must contain:
(1) A description of the Tribe's noncompliance with Federal law or the terms of the TERA;
(2) A description of the physical trust asset and the nature of the imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset resulting from the Tribe's noncompliance; and
(3) An order to the Tribe to cease specific conduct or take specific action deemed necessary by the Secretary to correct any condition that caused the imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset.
(b) Issue a finding that the Tribe's noncompliance with the TERA or a Federal law has caused imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset.
§ 224.139
What must a Tribe do after receiving a notice of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset?
(a) Upon receipt of a notice of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Tribe must cease specific conduct outlined in the notice or take specific action the Secretary orders that is necessary to correct any condition causing the imminent jeopardy; and
(b) Within 5 days of receiving a notice of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Tribe must submit a written response to the Secretary that:
(1) Responds to the Secretary's finding that the Tribe has failed to comply with a Federal law or the terms of the TERA;
(2) Responds to the Secretary's finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset;
(3) Describes the status of the Tribe's cessation of specific conduct or specific action the Tribe has taken to correct any condition causing imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset; and
(4) Describes what further actions, if any, the Tribe proposes to take to correct any condition, cited in the notice, causing imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset.
§ 224.140
What must the Secretary do if the Tribe fails to respond to or does not comply with the Secretary's order?
If the Tribe does not respond to or does not comply with the Secretary's order under § 224.138(a)(3), the Secretary may take any actions the Secretary deems appropriate to protect the physical trust asset, which may include the immediate reassumption of all activities the Tribe assumed under the TERA. The procedures in subpart G of this part do not apply to reassumption under this section.
§ 224.141
What must the Secretary do if the Tribe responds to the Secretary's order?
(a) If the Tribe responds in a timely manner to the Secretary's order under § 224.138, the Secretary must:
(1) Evaluate the Tribe's response;
(2) Determine whether or not the Tribe has complied with the TERA and the Federal law cited in the notice; and
(3) If the Secretary determines, after reviewing the Tribe's response, that the Tribe has not complied with the TERA or with a Federal law, the Secretary will determine whether the noncompliance caused imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset.
(b) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe's noncompliance has caused imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Secretary may:
(1) Order the Tribe to take any action the Secretary deems necessary to comply with the TERA or Federal law and to protect the physical trust asset; or
(2) Take any action the Secretary deems necessary to protect the physical trust asset, including reassumption under subpart G of this part.
(c) If the Secretary determines, after reviewing the Tribe's response, that the Tribe has complied with the TERA and with Federal law, the Secretary will withdraw the Secretary's order.
(d) The Secretary must base a finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset on the Tribe's non-compliance with a TERA or violation of a Federal law.

# Subpart G—Reassumption
§ 224.150
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart explains when and how the Secretary may reassume all activities included within a TERA without the consent of the Tribe.
§ 224.151
When may the Secretary reassume activities?
Upon issuing a written finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset, the Secretary may reassume activities under a TERA in accordance with this subpart. The Secretary may also reassume activities approved under a TERA in response to a petition from an interested party under subpart E of this part. Only the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs may reassume activities under a TERA.
§ 224.152
Must the Secretary always reassume the activities upon a finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset?
(a) The Secretary may take whatever actions the Secretary deems necessary to protect the physical trust asset. At the discretion of the Secretary, these actions may include reassumption of the activities a Tribe assumed under a TERA.
(b) If the Tribe does not respond to or does not comply with the Secretary's order under § 224.138(a)(3), the Secretary must immediately reassume all activities the Tribe assumed under the TERA. The notice procedures in this subpart will not apply to such immediate reassumption.

# Notice of Intent To Reassume
§ 224.153
Must the Secretary notify the Tribe of an intent to reassume the authority granted?
If the Secretary determines under § 224.152 that reassumption is necessary to protect the physical trust asset, the Secretary will issue a written notice to the Tribal governing body of the Secretary's intent to reassume.
§ 224.154
What must a notice of intent to reassume include?
A notice of intent to reassume must include:
(a) A statement of the reasons for the intended reassumption, including, as applicable, a copy of the Secretary's written finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset;
(b) A description of specific measures that the Tribe must take to correct the violation and any condition that caused the imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset;
(c) The time period within which the Tribe must take the measures to correct the violation of the TERA and any condition that caused the imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset; and
(d) The effective date of the reassumption, if the Tribe does not meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
§ 224.155
When must a Tribe respond to a notice of intent to reassume?
The Tribe must respond to the Secretary in writing by mail, facsimile, or overnight express within 5 days of receiving the Secretary's notice of intent to reassume. If sent by mail, the Tribe must send the response by certified mail, with return receipt requested. The Secretary will consider the date of the written response as the date it is postmarked.
§ 224.156
What information must the Tribe's response to the notice of intent to reassume include?
The Tribe's response to the notice of intent to reassume must state that:
(a) The Tribe has complied with the Secretary's requirements in the notice of intent to reassume;
(b) The Tribe is taking specified measures to comply with the Secretary's requirements, and when the Tribe will complete such measures, if the Tribe needs more than 5 days to do so; or
(c) The Tribe will not comply with the Secretary's requirements.
§ 224.157
How must the Secretary proceed after receiving the Tribe's response?
(a) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe's proposed or completed actions to comply with the Secretary's requirements are adequate to correct the violation of the TERA or Federal law and any condition that caused the imminent jeopardy, the Secretary will:
(1) Notify the Tribe of the adequacy of its response in writing; and
(2) Terminate the reassumption proceedings in writing.
(b) If the Secretary determines that the Tribe's proposed or completed actions to comply with the Secretary's requirements are not adequate, then the Secretary will issue a written notice of reassumption.
§ 224.158
What must the Secretary include in a written notice of reassumption?
The written notice of reassumption must include:
(a) A description of the authorities the Secretary is reassuming;
(b) The reasons for the determination under § 224.157(b);
(c) The effective date of the reassumption; and
(d) A statement that the decision is a final agency action and is subject to judicial review.
§ 224.159
How will reassumption affect valid existing rights or lawful actions taken before the effective date of the reassumption?
Reassumption will not affect valid existing rights that vested before the effective date of the reassumption or lawful actions the Tribe and the Secretary took before the effective date of the reassumption.
§ 224.160
How will reassumption affect a TERA?
Reassumption of a TERA applies to all of the authority and activities assumed under a TERA. Upon reassumption, the Tribe must also return all Departmental resources transferred under the TERA and any relevant records and documents to the Secretary.
§ 224.161
How may reassumption affect the Tribe's ability to enter into a new TERA or to modify another TERA to administer additional activities or to assume administration of activities that the Secretary previously reassumed?
Following reassumption, a Tribe may submit a request to enter into a new TERA or modify another TERA to administer additional activities, or assume administration of activities that the Secretary previously reassumed. In reviewing a subsequent Tribal request, however, the Secretary may consider the fact that activities were reassumed and any change in circumstances supporting the Tribe's request.

# Subpart H—Rescission
§ 224.170
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart explains the process and requirements under which a Tribe may rescind a TERA and therefore return to the Secretary all authority and activities assumed under that TERA.
§ 224.171
Who may rescind a TERA?
Only a Tribe may rescind a TERA.
§ 224.172
May a Tribe rescind only some of the activities subject to a TERA while retaining a portion of those activities?
No. A Tribe may only rescind a TERA in its entirety, including the authority to approve leases, business agreements and grant rights-of-way for specific energy resource development, not some of the authority or activities subject to the TERA.
§ 224.173
How does a Tribe rescind a TERA?
To rescind a TERA, a Tribe must submit to the Secretary a written Tribal resolution or other official action of the Tribe's governing body approving the voluntary rescission of the TERA. Upon rescission, the Tribe must also return all Departmental resources
transferred under the TERA and any relevant records and documents.
§ 224.174
When does a voluntary rescission become effective?
A voluntary rescission becomes effective on the date specified by the Secretary, provided that the date is no more than 90 days after the Secretary receives the Tribal resolution or other official action the Tribe submits under § 224.173.
§ 224.175
How will rescission affect valid existing rights or lawful actions taken before the rescission?
Rescission does not affect valid existing rights that vested before the effective date of the rescission or lawful actions the Tribe and the Secretary took before the effective date of the rescission.

# Subpart I—General Appeal Procedures
§ 224.180
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this subpart is to explain who may appeal Departmental decisions or inaction under this part and the initial administrative appeal processes, and general administrative appeal processes, including how 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4 apply, and the effective dates for appeal decisions.
§ 224.181
Who may appeal Departmental decisions or inaction under this part?
The following persons or entities may appeal Department decisions or inaction under this part:
(a) A Tribe or TEDO that is adversely affected by a decision of or inaction by an official of the Department of the Interior under this part;
(b) A third party who has entered into a lease, right-of-way, or business agreement with a Tribe under an approved TERA and is adversely affected by a decision of, or inaction by a Department official under this part; or
(c) An interested party who is adversely affected by a decision or inaction by the Secretary under subpart E of this part, provided that the interested party may appeal only those issues raised in its prior participation under subpart E of this part and may not appeal any other decision rendered or inaction under this part.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69614, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.182
What is the Initial Appeal Process?
The initial appeal process is as follows:
(a) Within 30 days of receiving an adverse decision by the Director or similar level official within 30 days after the time period within which the Secretary is required to act under subpart E, a party that may appeal under this subpart may file an appeal to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs;
(b) Within 60 days of receiving an appeal, the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs will review the record and issue a written decision on the appeal; and
(c) Within 7 days of a decision by the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, the Secretary will provide a written copy of the decision to the Tribe and other participating parties.
[73 FR 12821, Mar. 10, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 69614, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 224.183
What other administrative appeals processes also apply?
The administrative appeal processes in 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4, subject to the limitations in § 224.184, apply to:
(a) An interested party's appeal from an adverse decision or inaction by the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs under § 224.182; and
(b) An appeal by a Tribe or a person or entity that has entered into a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way from an adverse decision by or the inaction of a Departmental official taken under this part.
§ 224.184
How do other administrative appeals processes apply?
The administrative appeals process in 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4 are modified, only as they apply to appeals under this part, as set forth in this section.
(a) The definition of interested party in 25 CFR part 2 and as incorporated in
43 CFR part 4 does not apply to this part.
(b) The right of persons or entities other than an appealing party to participate in appeals under 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4 does not apply to this part, except as permitted under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) The only persons or entities, other than appealing parties, under § 224.181(a) to (c), who may participate in an appeal under this part are:
(1) The Secretary, if an appeal is taken from a decision of the Secretary or Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs;
(2) A Tribe, which may intervene, appear as an amicus curiae, or otherwise appear in any appeal taken under this part by a person or entity who has entered into a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way with the Tribe or by an interested party under this part; or
(3) A person or entity that has entered into a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way with a Tribe, may intervene, appear as an amicus curiae, or otherwise appear in any appeal taken under this part by the Tribe or by an interested party under this part.
(d) The Secretary does not have an obligation to provide notice and service upon non-appealing persons as provided in 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4. The only exception to this principle is that notice and service of all documents must be served consistent with the requirements of 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4 on those persons or entities identified in paragraph (c) of this section.
§ 224.185
When are decisions under this part effective?
Decisions under subpart I are effective as follows:
(a) Decisions of the Secretary disapproving a final proposed TERA or a revised final proposed TERA under subpart C of this part, a finding of imminent jeopardy to a physical trust asset under subpart F of this part, and decisions by the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs to reassume activities under subpart G of this part are final for the Department. These decisions and findings are effective upon issuance.
(b) Decisions under this part, other than those in paragraph (a) of this section, that adversely affect a Tribe and for which an appeal is pending are not final for the Department and are not effective while the appeal is pending, unless:
(1) The Tribe had an opportunity for a hearing before the decision was issued;
(2) The Tribe had a reasonable amount of time to comply with the TERA after the decision was issued; and
(3) The Interior Board of Indian Appeals (Board), the Secretary, or Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs issued a written decision that, notwithstanding a reasonable period given the Tribe to comply with the TERA, the Tribe has failed to take the actions necessary to comply with the TERA.
(c) All other decisions rendered by the Board or the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs in an appeal from a Secretary's decision under subparts E, F, or G of this part are effective when issued.

# Subpart J—Alternative to TERAs: Tribal Energy Development Organization (TEDO) Certification

# Source:
84 FR 69614, Dec. 18, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 224.200
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this part is to establish a process by which an entity may be certified as an Tribal energy development organization (TEDO) that may enter into a lease or business agreement with an Indian Tribe without Secretarial review under 25 U.S.C. 3504(a)(2) or right-of-way with an Indian Tribe without Secretarial review under 25 U.S.C. 3504(b)(2)(B) and without a TERA.
§ 224.201
What must an application for certification as a Tribal energy development organization (TEDO) include?
An application for certification as a TEDO must include documentation of the items listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a) The Tribe has carried out a contract or compact under title I or IV of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
) for a period of not less than 3 consecutive years ending on the date on which the Tribe submits the application, and the contract or compact:
(1) Has been carried out by the Tribe without material audit exceptions (or without any material audit exceptions that were not corrected within the 3-year period); and
(2) Has included programs or activities relating to the management of Tribal land;
(b) The TEDO is organized under the Tribe's laws;
(c) The majority of the interest in the TEDO is owned and controlled by the Tribe (or the Tribe and one or more other Tribes) the Tribal land of which is being developed; and
(d) The TEDO's organizing document:
(1) Requires the Tribe with jurisdiction over the land to maintain, at all times, the controlling interest in the TEDO;
(2) Requires the Tribe (or the Tribe and one or more other Tribes the Tribal land of which is being developed) to own and control, at all times, a majority of the interest in the TEDO; and
(3) Includes a statement that the TEDO is subject to the jurisdiction, laws, and authority of the Tribe.
§ 224.202
How must a Tribe submit an application for certification of a TEDO?
A Tribe must submit an application for certification of a TEDO and all supporting documents in a searchable portable document format (PDF) to
TERA@bia.gov
.
[86 FR 27808, May 24, 2021]
§ 224.203
What must the Secretary do upon receipt of an application for certification as a TEDO?
Within 90 days of receiving an application for certification as a TEDO, the Secretary must approve or disapprove the application.
§ 224.204
What criteria will the Secretary use to determine whether to approve an application for certification of a TEDO?
The Secretary will approve the application for certification upon determining that the application contains the documentation required in § 224.201.
§ 224.205
What must the Secretary do upon approval of an application for certification?
If the Secretary approves an application for certification, the Secretary must do the following within 10 days of making the determination under § 224.203:
(a) Issue a certification stating that:
(1) The TEDO is organized under the laws of the Tribe and subject to the Tribe's jurisdiction, laws, and authority;
(2) The majority of the interest in the TEDO is owned and controlled by the Tribe (or the Tribe and one or more other Tribes) and the Tribal land of which is being developed;
(3) The TEDO's organizing document requires the Tribe with jurisdiction over the land to maintain, at all times, the controlling interest in the TEDO;
(4) The TEDO's organizing document requires the Tribe (or the Tribe and one or more other Tribes the Tribal land of which is being developed) to own and control, at all times, a majority of the interest in the TEDO;
(5) The certification is issued under 25 U.S.C. 3504(h); and
(6) Nothing in the certification waives the sovereign immunity of the Tribe.
(b) Deliver a copy of the Certification to the applicant Tribe (or Tribes, as applicable); and
(c) Publish the certification in the
Federal Register
.
§ 224.206
What is the effect of a TEDO receiving certification?
Upon receiving certification under this subpart, a TEDO may enter into a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way with an Indian Tribe without Secretarial approval as long as:
(a) The scope of the lease or business agreement does not exceed that of a TERA as established in § 224.85 of this part.
(b) The scope of a right-of-way does not exceed that of a TERA as established in § 224.84 of this part.
(c) The term of a lease, business agreement, or right-of-way does not exceed that of a TERA as established in § 224.86 of this part.
Pt. 225

# PART 225—OIL AND GAS, GEOTHERMAL, AND SOLID MINERALS AGREEMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
225.1
Purpose and scope.
225.2
Information collection.
225.3
Definitions.
225.4
Authority and responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).
225.5
Authority and responsibility of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE).
225.6
Authority and responsibility of the Minerals Management Service (MMS).

# Subpart B—Minerals Agreements
225.20
Authority to contract.
225.21
Negotiation procedures.
225.22
Approval of minerals agreements.
225.23
Economic assessments.
225.24
Environmental studies.
225.25
Resolution of disputes.
225.26
Auditing and accounting.
225.27
Forms and reports.
225.28
Approval of amendments to minerals agreements.
225.29
Corporate qualifications and requests for information.
225.30
Bonds.
225.31
Manner of payments.
225.32
Permission to start operations.
225.33
Assignment of minerals agreements.
225.34
[Reserved]
225.35
Inspection of premises; books and accounts.
225.36
Minerals agreement cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.
225.37
Penalties.
225.38
Appeals.
225.39
Fees.
225.40
Government employees cannot acquire minerals agreements.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2, 9, and 2101-2108; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
59 FR 14971, Mar. 30, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 225.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The regulations in this part, administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, govern minerals agreements for the development of Indian-owned minerals entered into pursuant to the Indian Mineral Development Act of 1982, 25 U.S.C. 2101-2108 (IMDA). These regulations are applicable to the lands or interests in lands of any Indian tribe, individual Indian or Alaska native the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States. These regulations are intended to ensure that Indian mineral owners are permitted to enter into minerals agreements that will allow the Indian mineral owners to have more responsibility in overseeing and greater flexibility in disposing of their mineral resources, and to allow development in the manner which the Indian mineral owners believe will maximize their best economic interest and minimize any adverse environmental or cultural impact resulting from such development. Pursuant to section 4 of the IMDA (25 U.S.C. 2103(e)), as part of this greater flexibility, where the Secretary has approved a minerals agreement in compliance with the provisions of 25 U.S.C. chap. 23 and any other applicable provision of law, the United States shall not be liable for losses sustained by a tribe or individual Indian under such minerals agreement. However, as further stated in the IMDA, the Secretary continues to have a trust obligation to ensure that the rights of a tribe or individual Indian are protected in the event of a violation of the terms of any minerals agreement, and to uphold the duties of the United States as derived from the trust relationship and from any treaties, executive orders, or agreements between the United States and any Indian tribe.
(b) The regulations in this part shall become effective and in full force on April 29, 1994, and shall be subject to amendment at any time by the Secretary;
Provided,
that no such regulation that becomes effective after the
date of approval of any minerals agreement shall operate to affect the duration of the minerals agreement, the rate of royalty or financial consideration, rental, or acreage unless agreed to by all parties to the minerals agreement.
(c) The regulations of the Bureau of Land Management, the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, and the Minerals Management Service that are referenced in §§ 225.4, 225.5, and 225.6 are supplemental to these regulations, and apply to minerals agreements for development of Indian mineral resources unless specifically stated otherwise in this part or in other Federal regulations. To the extent the parties to a minerals agreement are able to provide reasonable provisions satisfactorily addressing the issues of valuation, method of payment, accounting, and auditing, governed by the Minerals Management Service regulations, the Secretary may approve alternate provisions in a minerals agreement.
(d) Nothing in these regulations is intended to prevent Indian tribes from exercising their lawful governmental authority to regulate the conduct of persons, businesses, or minerals operations within their territorial jurisdiction.
§ 225.2
Information collection.
It has been determined by the Office of Management and Budget that the Information Collection Requirements contained in part 225 do not require review under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
§ 225.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms have the specified meaning except where otherwise indicated.
Area Director
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs Official in charge of an Area Office.
Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior, a designee of the Secretary of the Interior who may be specifically authorized by the Secretary to disapprove minerals agreements (25 U.S.C. 2103(d)) and to issue orders of cessation and/or minerals agreement cancellations as final orders of the Department.
Authorized Officer
means any employee of the Bureau of Land Management authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described herein and in 43 CFR parts 3160, 3180, 3260, 3280, 3480 and 3590.
Director's Representative
means the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement Director's Representative authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in 30 CFR part 750 and 25 CFR part 216.
Gas
means any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible, that is produced in a natural state from the earth and that maintains a gaseous or rarefied state at ordinary temperature and pressure conditions.
Geothermal resources
means: (1) All products of geothermal processes, including indigenous steam, hot water, and hot brines;
(2) Steam and other gases, hot water, and hot brines, resulting from water, gas, or other fluids artificially introduced into geothermal formations;
(3) Heat or other associated energy found in geothermal formations; and
(4) Any by-product derived therefrom.
In the best interest of the Indian mineral owner
refers to the standards to be applied by the Secretary in considering whether to take administrative action affecting the interests of an Indian mineral owner. In considering whether it is “in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner” to take a certain action (such as approval of a minerals agreement or a unitization or communitization agreement) the Secretary shall consider any relevant factor, including, but not limited to: economic considerations, such as date of lease or minerals agreement expiration; probable financial effects on the Indian mineral owner; need for change in the terms of the existing minerals agreement; marketability of mineral products; and potential environmental, social and cultural effects.
Indian lands
means any lands or interests in lands owned by any individual Indian or Alaska Native, Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, community, rancheria, colony, or other group,
the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian mineral owner
means any individual Indian or Alaska Native, or Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, community, rancheria, colony, or other group that owns a mineral interest in oil and gas, geothermal resources or solid minerals, title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian surface owner
means any individual Indian or Alaska Native, or Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, community, rancheria, colony, or other group that owns the surface estate in land the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, community, rancheria, colony, or other group that owns land or interests in land the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Individual Indian
means any individual Indian or Alaska Native who owns land or interests in land the title to which is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
Minerals
includes both metalliferous and non-metalliferous minerals; all hydrocarbons, including oil and gas, coal and lignite of all ranks; geothermal resources; and includes but is not limited to sand, gravel, pumice, cinders, granite, building stone, limestone, clay, silt, or any other energy or non-energy mineral.
Minerals agreement
means any joint venture, operating, production sharing, service, managerial, lease (other than a lease entered into pursuant to the Act of May 11, 1938, or the Act of March 3, 1909), contract, or other minerals agreement; or any amendment, supplement or other modification of such minerals agreement, providing for the exploration for, or extraction, processing, or other development of minerals in which an Indian mineral owner owns a beneficial or restricted interest, or providing for the sale or other disposition of the production or products of such minerals.
Minerals Management Service official
means any employee of the Minerals Management Service authorized by law or by lawful delegation of authority to perform the duties described in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C.
Mining
means the science, technique, and business of mineral development, including, but not limited to: opencast work, underground work, in-situ leaching, or other methods directed to severance and treatment of minerals; however, when sand, gravel, pumice, cinders, granite, building stone, limestone, clay or silt is the subject mineral, an enterprise is considered “mining” only if the extraction of such a mineral exceeds 5,000 cubic yards in any given year.
Oil
means all non-gaseous hydrocarbon substances other than coal, oil shale, or gilsonite (including all vein-type solid hydrocarbons). Oil includes liquefiable hydrocarbon substances such as drip gasoline and other natural condensates recovered or recoverable in a liquid state from produced gas without resorting to a manufacturing process.
Operator
means a person, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other business entity that has entered into an approved minerals agreement under the authority of the Indian Mineral Development Act of 1982, or who has been assigned an obligation to make royalty or other payments required by the minerals agreement.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative, except that as used in § 225.22 (e) and (f) the authorized representative may only be the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs (25 U.S.C. 2103(d)).
Solid minerals
means all minerals excluding oil, gas, and geothermal resources.
Superintendent
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of an agency office.
§ 225.4
Authority and responsibility of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM).
The functions of the Bureau of Land Management are found in 43 CFR part 3160—Onshore Oil and Gas Operations, 43 CFR part 3180—Onshore Oil and Gas Unit Agreements: Unproven Areas, 43 CFR part 3260—Geothermal Resources Operations, 43 CFR part 3280—Geothermal Resources Unit Agreements: Unproven Areas, 43 CFR part 3480—Coal Exploration and Mining Operations, and 43 CFR part 3590—Solid Minerals (Other Than Coal) Exploration and Mining Operations. These functions include, but are not limited to, resource evaluation, approval of drilling permits, approval of mining, reclamation, and production plans, mineral appraisals, inspection and enforcement, and production verification. These regulations, as amended, apply to minerals agreements approved under this part.
§ 225.5
Authority and responsibility of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE).
The OSMRE is the regulatory authority for surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Indian lands pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1201
et seq.
). The relevant regulations for surface mining and reclamation operations are found in 30 CFR part 750 and 25 CFR part 216. These regulations, as amended, apply to minerals agreements approved under this part.
§ 225.6
Authority and responsibility of the Minerals Management Service (MMS).
The functions of the MMS for reporting, accounting, and auditing are found in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C. These regulations, unless specifically stated otherwise in this part or in other regulations, apply to all minerals agreements approved under this part. To the extent the parties to a minerals agreement are able to provide reasonable provisions satisfactorily addressing the issues or functions governed by the MMS regulations relating to valuation of mineral product, method of payment, accounting procedures, and auditing procedures, the Secretary may approve alternate provisions in a minerals agreement.

# Subpart B—Minerals Agreements
§ 225.20
Authority to contract.
(a) Any Indian tribe, subject to the approval of the Secretary and any limitation or provision contained in its constitution or charter, may enter into a minerals agreement with respect to mineral resources in which the tribe owns a beneficial or restricted interest.
(b) Any individual Indian owning a beneficial or restricted interest in mineral resources may include those resources in a tribal minerals agreement subject to the concurrence of the parties and a finding by the Secretary that inclusion of the resources is in the best interest of the individual Indian mineral owner.
§ 225.21
Negotiation procedures.
(a) An Indian mineral owner that wishes to enter into a minerals agreement may ask the Secretary for advice, assistance, and information during the negotiation process. The Secretary shall provide advice, assistance, and information to the extent allowed by available resources.
(b) No particular form of minerals agreement is prescribed. In preparing the minerals agreement the Indian mineral owner shall, if applicable, address provisions including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) A general statement identifying the parties to the minerals agreement, the legal description of the lands, including, if applicable, rock intervals or thicknesses subject to the minerals agreement, and the purposes of the minerals agreement;
(2) A statement setting forth the duration of the minerals agreement;
(3) A statement providing indemnification to the Indian mineral owner(s) and the United States from all claims, liabilities and causes of action that may be made by persons not a party to the minerals agreement;
(4) Provisions setting forth the obligations of the contracting parties;
(5) Provisions describing the methods of disposition of production;
(6) Provisions outlining the method of payment and amount of compensation to be paid;
(7) Provisions establishing accounting and mineral valuation procedures;
(8) Provisions establishing operating and management procedures;
(9) Provisions establishing any limitations on assignment of interests, including any right of first refusal by the Indian mineral owner in the event of a proposed assignment;
(10) Bond requirements;
(11) Insurance requirements;
(12) Provisions establishing audit procedures;
(13) Provisions for resolving disputes;
(14) A force majeure provision;
(15) Provisions describing the rights of the parties to terminate or suspend the minerals agreement, and the procedures to be followed in the event of termination or suspension;
(16) Provisions describing the nature and schedule of the activities to be conducted by the parties;
(17) Provisions describing the proposed manner and time of performance of future abandonment, reclamation and restoration activities;
(18) Provisions for reporting production and sales;
(19) Provisions for unitizing or communitizing of lands included in a minerals agreement for the purpose of promoting conservation and efficient utilization of natural resources;
(20) Provisions for protection of the minerals agreement lands from drainage and/or unauthorized taking of mineral resources; and
(21) Provisions for record keeping.
(c) In order to avoid delays in obtaining approval, the Indian mineral owner is encouraged to confer with the Secretary prior to formally executing the minerals agreement, and seek advice as to whether the minerals agreement appears to satisfy the requirements of § 225.22, or whether additions or corrections may be required in order to obtain Secretarial approval.
(d) The executed minerals agreement, together with a copy of a tribal resolution authorizing tribal officers to enter into the minerals agreement, shall be forwarded by the tribal representative to the appropriate Superintendent, or in the absence of a Superintendent to the Area Director, for approval.
§ 225.22
Approval of minerals agreements.
(a) A minerals agreement submitted for approval pursuant to § 225.21(d) shall be approved or disapproved within:
(1) One hundred and eighty (180) days after submission, or
(2) Sixty (60) days after compliance, if required, with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) or any other requirement of Federal law, whichever is later.
(b) At least thirty (30) days prior to approval or disapproval of any minerals agreement, the affected Indian mineral owners shall be provided with written findings forming the basis of the Secretary's intent to approve or disapprove the minerals agreement.
(1) The written findings shall include an environmental study which meets the requirements of § 225.24 and an economic assessment, as described in § 225.23.
(2) The Secretary shall include in the written findings any recommendations for changes to the minerals agreement needed to qualify it for approval.
(3) The 30-day period shall commence to run as of the date the written findings are received by the Indian mineral owner.
(4) Notwithstanding any other law, such findings and all projections, studies, data or other information (other than the environmental study required by § 225.24) possessed by the Department of the Interior regarding the terms and conditions of the minerals agreement; the financial return to the Indian parties thereto; the extent, nature, value or disposition of the mineral resources; or the production, products or proceeds thereof, shall be held by the Department of the Interior as privileged and proprietary information of the affected Indian mineral owners. The letter containing the written findings should be headed with: PRIVILEGED PROPRIETARY INFORMATION OF THE (names of Indian mineral owners).
(c) A minerals agreement shall be approved if, at the Secretary's discretion,
it is determined that the following conditions are met:
(1) The minerals agreement is in the best interest of the Indian mineral owner;
(2) The minerals agreement does not have adverse cultural, social, or environmental impacts sufficient to outweigh its expected benefits to the Indian mineral owners; and,
(3) The minerals agreement complies with the requirements of this part and all other applicable regulations and the provisions of applicable Federal law.
(d) The determinations required by paragraph (c) of this section shall be based on the written findings required by paragraph (b) and paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4), inclusive, of this section. The question of “best interest” within the meaning of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be determined by the Secretary based on information obtained from the parties, and any other information considered relevant by the Secretary, including, but not limited to, a review of comparable contemporary contractual arrangements or offers for the development of similar mineral resources received by Indian mineral owners, by non-Indian mineral owners, or by the Federal Government, insofar as that information is readily available.
(e) If a Superintendent or Area Director believes that a minerals agreement should not be approved, a written statement of the reasons why the minerals agreement should not be approved shall be prepared and forwarded, together with the minerals agreement, the written findings required by paragraph (b) and subparagraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4), inclusive, of this section, and all other pertinent documents, to the Secretary for a decision with a copy to the affected Indian mineral owner.
(f) The Secretary shall review any minerals agreement referred with a recommendation that it be disapproved, and the Secretary's decision to disapprove a minerals agreement shall be deemed a final Federal agency action (25 U.S.C. 2103(d)).
§ 225.23
Economic assessments.
The Secretary shall prepare or cause to be prepared an economic assessment that shall address, among other things:
(a) Whether there are assurances in the minerals agreement that operations shall be conducted with appropriate diligence;
(b) Whether the production royalties or other form of return on mineral resources is adequate; and
(c) Whether the minerals agreement is likely to provide the Indian mineral owner with a return on the production comparable to what the owner might otherwise obtain through competitive bidding, when such a comparison can reasonably be made.
§ 225.24
Environmental studies.
(a) The Secretary shall ensure that all environmental studies are prepared as required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and the regulations promulgated by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) found at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508.
(b) The Secretary shall ensure that all necessary surveys are performed and clearances obtained in accordance with 36 CFR parts 60, 63, and 800 and with the requirements of the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 469
et seq.
), the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
), the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (42 U.S.C. 1996), and Executive Order 11593 (3 CFR 1971-1975 Comp., p. 559, May 13, 1971). If these surveys indicate that a mineral development will have an adverse effect on a property listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, the Secretary shall:
(1) Seek the comments of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800;
(2) Ensure that the property is avoided, that the adverse effect is mitigated, or that appropriate excavations or other related research is conducted; and
(3) Ensure that complete data describing the historic property is preserved.
§ 225.25
Resolution of disputes.
A minerals agreement shall contain provisions for resolving disputes that
may arise between the parties. However, no such provision shall limit the Secretary's authority or ability to ensure that the rights of an Indian mineral owner are protected in the event of a violation of the provisions of the minerals agreement by any other party to the minerals agreement.
§ 225.26
Auditing and accounting.
The Secretary may conduct audits relating to the scope, nature and extent of compliance with the minerals agreement and with applicable regulations and orders to lessees, operators, revenue payors, and other persons with rental, royalty, net profit share and other payment requirements arising from the provisions of a minerals agreement. Procedures and standards used for accounting and auditing of minerals agreements will be in accordance with audit standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States, in “Standards for Auditing of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions, 1981,” and standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
§ 225.27
Forms and reports.
Any forms required to be filed pursuant to a minerals agreement may be obtained from the Superintendent or Area Director. Prescribed forms for filing geothermal production reports required by the BLM (43 CFR part 3260, §§ 3264.1, 3264.2-4 and 3264.2-5) may be obtained from the Superintendent, Area Director, or the Authorized Officer. Applicable reports required by the MMS shall be filed using the forms prescribed in 30 CFR part 210, which are available from MMS. Guidance on how to prepare and submit required information, collection reports, and forms to MMS is available from: Minerals Management Service, Attention: Lessee (or Reporter) Contact Branch, P.O. Box 5760, Denver, Colorado 80217. Additional reporting requirements may be required by the Secretary.
§ 225.28
Approval of amendments to minerals agreements.
An amendment, modification or supplement to a minerals agreement entered into pursuant to the regulations in this part, whether the minerals agreement was approved before or after the effective date of these regulations, must be approved in writing by all parties before being submitted to the Secretary for approval. The provisions of § 225.22 apply to approvals of amendments, modifications, or supplements to minerals agreements entered into under the regulations in this part. However, amendments, modifications, or supplements that do not substantially alter or affect the factors listed in § 225.22(c), may be approved by referencing materials previously submitted for the initial review and approval of the minerals agreement. The Secretary may approve an amendment, modification, or supplement if it is determined that the underlying minerals agreement, as amended, modified, or supplemented meets the criteria for approval set forth in § 225.22(c).
§ 225.29
Corporate qualifications and requests for information.
(a) The signing in a representative capacity of minerals agreements or assignments, bonds, or other instruments required by a minerals agreement or these regulations, constitutes certification that the individual signing (except a surety agent) is authorized to act in such a capacity. An agent for a surety shall furnish a power of attorney.
(b) A prospective corporate operator proposing to acquire an interest in a minerals agreement shall have on file with the Superintendent a statement showing:
(1) The State(s) in which the corporation is incorporated, and a notarized statement that the corporation is authorized to hold such interests in the State where the land described in the minerals agreement is situated; and
(2) A notarized statement that it has power to conduct all business and operations as described in the minerals agreement.
(c) The Secretary may, either before or after the approval of a minerals agreement, assignment, or bond, call for any reasonable additional information necessary to carry out the regulations in this part, or other applicable laws and regulations.
§ 225.30
Bonds.
(a) Bonds required by provisions of a minerals agreement should be in an amount sufficient to ensure compliance with all of the requirements of the minerals agreement and the statutes and regulations applicable to the minerals agreement. Surety bonds shall be issued by a qualified company approved by the Department of the Treasury (see Department of the Treasury Circular No. 570).
(b) An operator may file a $75,000 bond for all geothermal, mining, or oil and gas minerals agreements in any one State, which may also include areas on that part of an Indian reservation extending into any contiguous State. Statewide bonds shall be filed for approval with the Secretary.
(c) An operator may file a $150,000 bond for full nationwide coverage to cover all geothermal or oil and gas minerals agreements without geographic or acreage limitation to which the operator is or may become a party. Nationwide bonds shall be filed for approval with the Secretary.
(d) Personal bonds shall be accompanied by:
(1) Certificate of deposit issued by a financial institution, the deposits of which are Federally insured, explicitly granting the Secretary full authority to demand immediate payment in case of default in the performance of the provisions and conditions of the minerals agreement. The certificate shall explicitly indicate on its face that Secretarial approval is required prior to redemption of the certificate of deposit by any party;
(2) Cashier's check;
(3) Certified check;
(4) Negotiable Treasury securities of the United States of a value equal to the amount specified in the bond. Negotiable Treasury securities shall be accompanied by a proper conveyance to the Secretary of full authority to sell such securities in case of default in the performance of the provisions and conditions of a minerals agreement; or
(5) Letter of credit issued by a financial institution authorized to do business in the United States and whose deposits are Federally insured, and identifying the Secretary as sole payee with full authority to demand immediate payment in the case of default in the performance of the provisions and conditions of a minerals agreement.
(i) The letter of credit shall be irrevocable during its term.
(ii) The letter of credit shall be payable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs on demand, in part or in full, upon receipt from the Secretary of a notice of attachment stating the basis thereof (e.g., default in compliance with the minerals agreement provisions and conditions or failure to file a replacement in accordance with subparagraph (d)(5)(v) of this section).
(iii) The initial expiration date of the letter of credit shall be at least one (1) year following the date it is filed in the proper Bureau of Indian Affairs office.
(iv) The letter of credit shall contain a provision for automatic renewal for periods of not less than one (1) year in the absence of notice to the proper Bureau of Indian Affairs office at least ninety (90) days prior to the originally stated or any extended expiration date.
(v) A letter of credit used as security for any minerals agreement upon which operations have taken place and final approval for abandonment has not been given, or as security for a statewide or nationwide bond, shall be forfeited and shall be collected by the Secretary if not replaced by other suitable bond or letter of credit at least thirty (30) days before its expiration date.
(e) The required amount of a bond may be increased in any particular case at the discretion of the Secretary.
[59 FR 14971, Mar. 30, 1994; 60 FR 10474, Feb. 24, 1995]
§ 225.31
Manner of payments.
Unless specified otherwise in the minerals agreement, after production has been established, all payments due for royalties, bonuses, rentals and other payments under a minerals agreement shall be made to the Secretary or such other party as may be designated, and shall be made at such time as provided in 30 CFR chapter II, subchapters A and C. Prior to production, all bonus and rental payments, shall be made to the Superintendent or Area Director.
§ 225.32
Permission to start operations.
(a) No exploration, drilling, or mining operations are permitted on any Indian lands before the Secretary has granted written approval of the minerals agreement pursuant to the regulations. After a minerals agreement is approved, written permission to start operations must be secured by applying for the permits referred to in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Applicable permits in accordance with rules and regulations in 30 CFR part 750, 43 CFR parts 3160, 3260, 3480, 3590, and Orders or Notices to Lessees (NTL) issued thereunder shall be required before actual operations are conducted on the minerals agreement acreage.
§ 225.33
Assignment of minerals agreements.
An assignment of a minerals agreement, or any interest therein, shall not be valid without the approval of the Secretary and, if required in the minerals agreement, the Indian mineral owner. The assignee must be qualified to hold the minerals agreement and shall furnish a satisfactory bond conditioned on the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions thereof as stipulated in the minerals agreement. A fully executed copy of the assignment shall be filed with the Secretary within five (5) working days after execution by all parties. The Secretary may permit the release of any bonds executed by the assignor upon submission of satisfactory bonds to the Bureau of Indian Affairs by the assignee, and a determination that the assignor has satisfied all accrued obligations.
§ 225.34
[Reserved]
§ 225.35
Inspection of premises; books and accounts.
(a) Operators shall allow Indian mineral owners, their authorized representatives, or any authorized representatives of the Secretary to enter all parts of the minerals agreement area for the purpose of inspection. Operators shall keep a full and correct account of all operations and submit all related reports required by the minerals agreement and applicable regulations. Books and records shall be available for inspection during regular business hours.
(b) Operators shall provide records to the Minerals Management Service (MMS) in accordance with MMS regulations and guidelines. All records pertaining to a minerals agreement shall be maintained by an operator in accordance with 30 CFR part 212.
(c) Operators shall provide records to the Authorized Officer in accordance with BLM regulations and guidelines.
(d) Operators shall provide records to the Director's Representative in accordance with OSMRE regulations and guidelines.
§ 225.36
Minerals agreement cancellation; Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of noncompliance.
(a) If the Secretary determines that an operator has failed to comply with the regulations in this part; other applicable laws or regulations; the terms of the minerals agreement; the requirements of an approved exploration, drilling or mining plan; Secretarial orders; or the orders of the Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, or the MMS Official, the Secretary may:
(1) Serve a notice of noncompliance; or
(2) Serve a notice of proposed cancellation.
(b) The notice of noncompliance shall specify in what respect the operator has failed to comply with the requirements referenced in paragraph (a), and shall specify what actions, if any, must be taken to correct the noncompliance.
(c) The notice of proposed cancellation shall set forth the reasons why cancellation is proposed.
(d) The notice of proposed cancellation or noncompliance shall be served upon the operator by delivery in person or by certified mail to the operator at the operator's last known address. When certified mail is used, the date of service shall be deemed to be when received or five (5) working days after the date it is mailed, whichever is earlier.
(e) The operator shall have thirty (30) days (or such longer time as specified in the notice) from the date that the
Bureau of Indian Affairs notice of proposed cancellation or noncompliance is served to respond, in writing, to the Superintendent or Area Director actually issuing the notice.
(f) If an operator fails to take any action that may be prescribed in the notice of proposed cancellation, fails to file a timely written response to the notice, or files a written response that does not, in the discretion of the Secretary, adequately justify the operator's failure to comply, then the Secretary may cancel the minerals agreement, specifying the basis for the cancellation. Cancellation of a minerals agreement shall not relieve the operator of any continuing obligation under the minerals agreement.
(g) If an operator fails to take corrective action or to file a timely written response adequately justifying the operator's actions pursuant to a notice of noncompliance, the Secretary may issue an order of cessation. If the operator fails to comply with the order of cessation, or fails to timely file an appeal of the order of cessation pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section, the Secretary may issue an order of minerals agreement cancellation.
(h) This section does not limit any other remedies of the Indian mineral owner as set forth in the minerals agreement.
(i) Nothing in this section is intended to limit the authority of the Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, or the MMS Official to take any enforcement action authorized pursuant to statute or regulation.
(j) The Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, the MMS Official, and the Superintendent or Area Director should consult with one another before taking any enforcement actions.
(k) If orders of cessation or minerals agreement cancellation issued pursuant to this section are issued by a designee of the Secretary other than the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, the orders may be appealed under 25 CFR part 2. If the orders are issued by the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, and not one of their delegates or subordinates, the orders are the final orders of the Department.
§ 225.37
Penalties.
(a) In addition to or in lieu of cancellation under § 225.36, violations of the terms and conditions of any minerals agreement, the regulations in this part, other applicable laws or regulations, or failure to comply with a notice of noncompliance or a cessation order issued by the Secretary may subject an operator to a penalty of not more than $2,057 per day for each day that such a violation or noncompliance continues beyond the time limits prescribed for corrective action.
(b) A notice of a proposed penalty shall be served on the operator either personally or by certified mail to the operator at the operator's last known address. The date of service by certified mail shall be deemed to be the date received or five (5) working days after the date mailed, whichever is earlier.
(c) The notice shall specify the nature of the violation and the proposed penalty, and shall specifically advise the operator of the operator's right to either request a hearing within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice or pay the proposed penalty. Hearings shall be held before the Superintendent or Area Director whose findings shall be conclusive, unless an appeal is taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2. If within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice of proposed penalty the operator has not requested a hearing or paid the amount of the proposed penalty, a final notice of penalty shall be served.
(d) If the person served with a notice of proposed penalty requests a hearing, penalties shall accrue each day the violations or noncompliance set forth in the notice continue beyond the time limits presented for corrective action. The Secretary may issue a written suspension of the requirement to correct the violations pending completion of the hearings provided by this section only upon a determination, at the discretion of the Secretary, that such a suspension will not be detrimental to the Indian mineral owner and upon submission and acceptance of a bond deemed adequate to indemnify the Indian mineral owner from loss or damage. The amount of the bond must be sufficient to cover the cost of correcting the violations set forth in the
notice or any disputed amounts plus accrued penalties and interest.
(e) Payment of penalties in full more than ten (10) days after a final decision imposing a penalty shall subject the operator to late payment charges. Late payment charges shall be calculated on the basis of a percentage assessment rate of the amount unpaid per month for each month or fraction thereof until payment is received by the Secretary. In the absence of a specific minerals agreement provision prescribing a different rate, the interest rate on late payments and underpayments shall be a rate applicable under section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. Interest shall be charged only on the amount of payment not received and only for the number of days the payment is late.
(f) None of the provisions of this section shall be interpreted as:
(1) Replacing or superseding the independent authority of the Authorized Officer, the Director's Representative, or the MMS Official to impose penalties under applicable statutory or regulatory authorities;
(2) Replacing, superseding, or replicating any penalty provision in the terms and conditions of a minerals agreement approved by the Secretary pursuant to this part; or
(3) Authorizing the imposition of a penalty for violations of minerals agreement provisions for which the Authorized Officer, Director's Representative, or MMS Official has either statutory or regulatory authority to assess a penalty.
[59 FR 14971, Mar. 30, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7652, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 225.38
Appeals.
Appeals from decisions of Officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs under this part may be taken pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.
§ 225.39
Fees.
(a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, each minerals agreement or assignment thereof, shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $75.00 at the time of filing.
(b) An Indian mineral owner shall not be required to pay a filing fee if the Indian mineral owner, pursuant to a provision in the existing minerals agreement, acquires an additional interest in that minerals agreement.
§ 225.40
Government employees cannot acquire minerals agreements.
U.S. Government employees are prevented from acquiring any interest(s) in minerals agreements by the provisions of 25 CFR part 140 and 43 CFR part 20 pertaining to conflicts of interest and ownership of an interest in trust land.
Pt. 226

# PART 226—LEASING OF OSAGE RESERVATION LANDS FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
Sec.
226.1
Definitions.

# Leasing Procedure, Rental and Royalty
226.2
Sale of leases.
226.3
Surrender of lease.
226.4
Form of payment.
226.5
Leases subject to current regulations.
226.6
Bonds.
226.7
Provisions of forms made a part of the regulations.
226.8
Corporation and corporate information.
226.9
Rental and drilling obligations.
226.10
Term of lease.
226.11
Royalty payments.
226.12
Government reserves right to purchase oil.
226.13
Time of royalty payments and reports.
226.14
Contracts and division orders.
226.15
Unit leases, assignments and related instruments.

# Operations
226.16
Commencement of operations.
226.17
How to acquire permission to begin operations on a restricted homestead allotment.
226.18
Information to be given surface owners prior to commencement of drilling operations.
226.19
Use of surface of land.
226.20
Settlement of damages claimed.
226.21
Procedure for settlement of damages claimed.
226.22
Prohibition of pollution.
226.23
Easements for wells off leased premises.
226.24
Lessee's use of water.
226.25
Gas well drilled by oil lessees and vice versa.
226.26
Determining cost of well.
226.27
Gas for operating purposes and tribal use.

# Cessation of Operations
226.28
Shutdown, abandonment, and plugging of wells.
226.29
Disposition of casings and other improvements.

# Requirements of Lessees
226.30
Lessees subject to Superintendent's orders; books and records open to inspection.
226.31
Lessee's process agents.
226.32
Well records and reports.
226.33
Line drilling.
226.34
Wells and tank batteries to be marked.
226.35
Formations to be protected.
226.36
Control devices.
226.37
Waste of oil and gas.
226.38
Measuring and storing oil.
226.39
Measurement of gas.
226.40
Use of gas for lifting oil.
226.41
Accidents to be reported.

# Penalties
226.42
Penalty for violation of lease terms.
226.43
Penalties for violation of certain operating regulations.

# Appeals and Notices
226.44
Appeals.
226.45
Notices.
226.46
Information collection.

# Authority:
Sec. 3, 34 Stat. 543; secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat. 1478; sec. 3, 52 Stat. 1034, 1035; sec. 2(a), 92 Stat. 1660; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
81 FR 39573, June 17, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 226.1
Definitions.
As used in this part 226, terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
(b)
Osage Tribal Council
means the duly elected governing body of the Osage Nation or Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma vested with authority to lease or take other actions on oil and gas mining pertaining to the Osage Mineral Estate.
(c)
Superintendent
means the Superintendent of the Osage Agency, Pawhuska, Oklahoma, or his authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
(d)
Oil lessee
means any person, firm, or corporation to whom an oil mining lease is made under the regulations in this part.
(e)
Gas lessee
means any person, firm, or corporation to whom a gas mining lease is made under the regulations in this part.
(f)
Oil and gas lessee
means any person, firm, or corporation to whom an oil and gas mining lease is made under the regulations in this part.
(g)
Primary term
means the basic period of time for which a lease is issued during which the lease contract may be kept in force by payment of rentals.
(h)
Major purchaser
means any one of the minimum number of purchasers taking 95 percent of the oil in Osage County, Oklahoma. Any oil purchased by a purchaser from itself, its subsidiaries, partnerships, associations, or other corporations in which it has a financial or management interest shall be excluded from the determination of a major purchaser.
(i)
Casinghead gas
means gas produced from an oil well as a consequence of oil production from the same formation.
(j)
Natural gas
means any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible, recovered at the surface in the gaseous phase and/or hydrocarbons recovered at the surface as liquids which are the result of condensation caused by reduction of pressure and temperature of hydrocarbons originally existing in a reservoir in the gaseous phase.
(k)
Authorized representative of an oil lessee, gas lessee, or oil and gas lessee
means any person, group, or groups of persons, partnership, association, company, corporation, organization or agent employed by or contracted with a lessee or any subcontractor to conduct oil and gas operations or provide facilities to market oil and gas.
(l)
Oil well
means any well which produces one (1) barrel or more of crude petroleum oil for each 15,000 standard cubic feet of natural gas.
(m)
Gas well
means any well which:
(1) Produces natural gas not associated with crude petroleum oil at the time of production or
(2) Produces more than 15,000 standard cubic feet of natural gas to each barrel of crude petroleum oil from the same producing formation.
Leasing Procedure, Rental and Royalty
§ 226.2
Sale of leases.
(a) Written application, together with any nomination fee, for tracts to be offered for lease shall be filed with the Superintendent.
(b) The Superintendent, with the consent of the Osage Tribal Council, shall publish notices for the sale of oil leases, gas leases, and oil and gas leases to the highest responsible bidder on specific tracts of the unleased Osage Mineral Estate. The Superintendent may require any bidder to submit satisfactory evidence of his good faith and ability to comply with all provisions of the notice of sale. Successful bidders must deposit with the Superintendent on day of sale a check or cash in an amount not less than 25 percent of the cash bonus offered as a guaranty of good faith. Any and all bids shall be subject to the acceptance of the Osage Tribal Council and approval of the Superintendent. Within 20 days after notification of being the successful bidder, and said bidder must submit to the Superintendent the balance of the cash bonus, a $10 filing fee, and the lease in completed form. The Superintendent may extend the time for the completion and submission of the lease form, but no extension shall be granted for remitting the balance of moneys due. If the bidder fails to pay the full cash consideration within said period or fails to file the completed lease within said period or extention thereof, or if the lease is rejected through no fault of the Osage Tribal Council or the Superintendent, 25 percent of the cash bonus bid will be forfeited for the use and benefits of the Osage Tribe. The Superintendent may reject a lease made on an accepted bid, upon evidence satisfactory to him of collusion, fraud, or other irregularity in connection with the notice of sale. The Superintendent may approve oil leases, gas leases, and oil and gas leases made by the Osage Tribal Council in conformity with the notice of sale, regulations in this part, bonds, and other instruments required.
(c) Each oil and/or gas lease and activities and installations associated therewith subject to these regulations shall be assessed and evaluated for its environmental impact prior to its approval by the Superintendent.
(d) Lessee shall accept a lease with the understanding that a mineral not covered by his lease may be leased separately.
(e) No lease, assignment thereof, or interest therein will be approved to any employee or employees of the Government and no such employee shall be permitted to acquire any interest in leases covering the Osage Mineral Estate by ownership of stock in corporations having leases or in any other manner.
(f) The Osage Tribal Council may utilize the following procedures among others, in entering into a mining lease. A contract may be entered into through competitive bidding as outlined in § 226.2(b), negotiation, or a combination of both. The Osage Tribal Council may also request the Superintendent to undertake the preparation, advertisement and negotiation. The Superintendent may approve any such contract made by the Osage Tribal Council.
§ 226.3
Surrender of lease.
Lessee may, with the approval of the Superintendent and payment of a $10 filing fee, surrender all or any portion of any lease, have the lease cancelled as to the portion surrendered and be relieved from all subsequent obligations and liabilities. If the lease, or portion being surrendered, is owned in undivided interests by more than one party, then all parties shall join in the application for cancellation:
Provided,
That if this lease has been recorded, Lessee shall execute a release and record the same in the proper office. Such surrender shall not entitle Lessee to a refund of the unused portion of rental paid in lieu of development, nor shall it relieve Lessee and his sureties of any obligation and liability incurred prior to such surrender:
Provided further,
That when there is a partial surrender of any lease and the acreage to be retained is less than 160 acres or there is a surrender of a separate horizon, such surrender shall become only with the
consent of the Osage Tribal Council and approval of the Superintendent.
§ 226.4
Form of payment.
Sums due under a lease contract and/or the regulations in this part shall be paid by cash or check made payable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs and delivered to the Osage Agency, Pawhuska, Oklahoma 74056. Such sums shall be a prior lien on all equipment and unsold oil on the leased premises.
§ 226.5
Leases subject to current regulations.
Leases issued pursuant to this part shall be subject to the current regulations of the Secretary, all of which are made a part of such leases:
Provided,
That no amendment or change of such regulations made after the approval of any lease shall operate to affect the term of the lease, rate of royalty, rental, or acreage unless agreed to by both parties and approved by the Superintendent.
§ 226.6
Bonds.
Lessees shall furnish with each lease a corporate surety bond acceptable to the Superintendent as follows:
(a) A bond on Form D shall be filed with each lease submitted for approval. Such bond shall be in an amount of not less than $5,000 for each quarter section or fractional quarter section covered by said lease:
Provided, however,
That one bond in the penal sum or not less than $50,000 may be filed on Form G covering all oil, gas and combination oil and gas leases not in excess of 10,240 acres to which Lessee is or may become a party.
(b) In lieu of the bonds required under paragraph (a) of this section, a bond in the penal sum of $150,000 may be filed on Form 5-5438 for full nationwide coverage of all leases, without geographic or acreage limitation, to which the Lessee is or may become a party.
(c) A bond on Form H shall be filed in an amount of not less than $5,000 covering a lease acquired through assignment where the assignee does not have a collective bond on form G or nationwide bond, or the corporate surety does not execute its consent to remain bound under the original bond given to secure the faithful performance of the terms and conditions of the lease.
(d) The right is specifically reserved to increase the amount of bonds prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in any particular case when the Superintendent deems it proper. The nationwide bond may be increased at any time in the discretion of the Secretary.
§ 226.7
Provisions of forms made a part of the regulations.
Leases, assignments, and supporting instruments shall be in the form prescribed by the Secretary, and such forms are hereby made a part of the regulations.
§ 226.8
Corporation and corporate information.
(a) If the applicant for a lease is a corporation, it shall file evidence of authority of its officers to execute papers; and with its first application it shall also file a certified copy of its Articles of Incorporation and, if foreign to the State of Oklahoma, evidence showing compliance with the corporation laws thereof.
(b) Whenever deemed advisable the Superintendent may require a corporation to file any additional information necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of the regulations in this part, and such information shall be furnished within a reasonable time.
§ 226.9
Rental and drilling obligations.
(a) Oil leases, gas leases, and combination oil and gas leases. Unless Lessee shall complete and place on production a well producing and selling oil and/or gas in paying quantities on the land embraced within the lease within 12 months from the date of approval of the lease, or as otherwise provided in the lease terms, or 12 months from the date the Superintendent consents to drilling on any restricted homestead selection, the lease shall terminate unless rental at the rate of not less than $1 per acre for an oil or gas lease, or not less than $2.00 per acre for a combination oil and gas lease, shall be paid before the end of the first year of the lease. The lease may also be held for the remainder of its primary term without drilling upon payment of the
specified rental annually in advance, commencing with the second lease year. The lease shall terminate as of the due date of the rental unless such rental shall be received by the Superintendent, or shall have been mailed as indicated by postmark on or before said date. The completion of a well producing in paying quantities shall, for so long as such production continues, relieve Lessee from any further payment of rental, except that should such production cease during the primary term the lease may be continued only during the remaining primary term of the lease by payment of advance rental which shall commence on the next anniversary date of the lease. Rental shall be paid on the basis of a full year and no refund will be made of advance rental paid in compliance with the regulations in this part:
Provided,
That the Superintendent in his discretion may order further development of any leased acreage or separate horizon if, in his opinion, a prudent operator would conduct further development. If Lessee refuses to comply, the refusal will be considered a violation of the lease terms and said lease shall be subject to cancellation as to the acreage or horizon the further development of which was ordered:
Provided further,
That the Superintendent may impose restrictions as to time of drilling and rate of production from any well or wells when in his judgment, such action may be necessary or proper for the protection of the natural resources of the leased land and the interests of the Osage Tribe. The superintendent may consider, among other things, Federal and Oklahoma laws regulating either drilling or production. If a lessee holds both an oil lease and a gas lease covering the same acreage, such lessee is subject to the provisions of this section as to both the oil lease and the gas lease.
(b) The Superintendent may, with the consent of and under terms approved by the Osage Tribal Council, grant an extension of the primary term of a lease on which the actual drilling of a well shall have commenced within the term thereof or for the purpose of enabling Lessee to obtain a market for his oil and/or gas production.
§ 226.10
Term of lease.
Leases issued hereunder shall be for a primary term as established by the Osage Tribal Council, approved by the Superintendent, and so stated in the notice of sale of such leases and so long thereafter as the minerals specified are produced in paying quantities.
§ 226.11
Royalty payments.
(a)
Royalty on oil
—(1)
Royalty rate.
Lessee shall pay or cause to be paid to the Superintendent, as royalty, the sum of not less than 162/3 percent of the gross proceeds from sales after deducting the oil used by Lessee for development and operation purposes on the lease:
Provided,
That when the quantity of oil taken from all the producing wells on any quarter-section or fraction thereof, according to the public survey, during any calendar month is sufficient to average one hundred or more barrels per active producing well per day the royalty on such oil shall be not less than 20 percent. The Osage Tribal Council may, upon presentation of justifiable economic evidence by Lessee, agree to a revised royalty rate subject to approval by the Superintendent, applicable to additional oil produced from a lease or leases by enhanced recovery methods, which rate shall not be less than 121/2 percent of the gross proceeds from sale of oil produced by enhanced recovery processes, other than gas injection, after deducting the oil used by Lessee for development and operating purposes on the lease or leases.
(2) Unless the Osage Tribal Council, with approval of the Secretary, shall elect to take the royalty in kind, payment is owing at the time of sale or removal of the oil, except where payments are made on division orders, and settlement shall be based on the actual selling price, but at not less than the highest posted price by a major purchaser (as defined in § 226.1(h)) in Osage County, Oklahoma, who purchases production from Osage oil leases.
(3) Royalty in kind. Should Lessor, with approval of the Secretary, elect to take the royalty in kind, Lessee shall furnish free storage for royalty oil for a period not to exceed 60 days from date of production after notice of such election.
(b)
Royalty on gas
—(1)
Oil lease.
All casinghead gas shall belong to the oil Lessee subject to any rights under existing gas leases. All casinghead gas removed from the lease from which it is produced shall be metered unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent and be subject to a royalty of not less than 162/3 percent of the market value of the gas and all products extracted therefrom, less a reasonable allowance for manufacture or processing. If an oil Lessee supplies casinghead gas produced from one lease for operation and/or development of other leases, either his/hers or others, a royalty of not less than 162/3 percent shall be paid on the market value of all casinghead gas so used. All casinghead gas not utilized by the oil Lessee may, with the approval of the Superintendent, be utilized or sold by the gas Lessee, subject to the prescribed royalty of not less than 162/3 percent of the market value.
(2)
Gas lease.
Lessee shall pay a royalty of not less than 162/3 percent of the market value of all natural gas and products extracted therefrom produced and sold from his lease. Natural gas used in the reasonable and prudent operation and development of said lease shall be exempted from royalty payment.
(3)
Combination oil and gas lease.
Lessee shall pay royalty as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c)
Minimum royalty.
In no event shall the royalty paid from producing leases during any year be less than an amount equal to the annual rental specified for the lease. Any underpayment of minimum royalty shall be due and payable within 45 days following the end of the lease year. After the primary term, Lessee shall submit with his payment evidence that the lease is producing in paying quantities. The Superintendent is authorized to determine whether the lease is actually producing in paying quantities or has terminated for lack of such production. Payment for any underpayment not made within the time specified shall be subject to a late charge at the rate of not less than 11/2 percent per month for each month or fraction thereof until paid.
§ 226.12
Government reserves right to purchase oil.
Any of the executive departments of the U.S. Government shall have the option to purchase all or any part of the oil produced from any lease at not less than the highest posted price as defined in § 226.11.
§ 226.13
Time of royalty payments and reports.
(a) Royalty payments due may be paid by either purchaser or Lessee. Unless otherwise provided by the Osage Tribal Council and approved by the Superintendent, all payments shall be due by the 25th day of each month and shall cover the sales of the preceding month. Failure to make such payments shall subject Lessee or purchaser, whoever is responsible for royalty payment, to a late charge at the rate of not less than 11/2 percent for each month or fraction thereof until paid. The Osage Tribal Council, subject to the approval of the Superintendent, may waive the late charges.
(b) Lessee shall furnish certified monthly reports by the 25th of each following month covering all operations, whether there has been production or not, indicating therein the total amount of oil, natural gas, casinghead gas, and other products subject to royalty payment.
(c) Failure to remit payments or reports shall subject Lessee to further penalties as provided in §§ 226.42 and 226.43 and shall subject the division order to cancellation.
§ 226.14
Contracts and division orders.
(a) Lessee may enter into division orders or contracts with the purchasers of oil, gas, or derivatives therefrom which will provide for the purchaser to make payment of royalty in accordance with his lease:
Provided,
That such division orders or contracts shall not relieve Lessee from responsibility for the payment of the royalty should the purchaser fail to pay. No production shall be removed from the leased premises until a division order and/or contract and its terms are approved by the Superintendent:
Provided further,
That the Superintendent may grant temporary permission to run oil or gas from a lease pending the approval of a
division order or contract. Lessee shall file a certified monthly report and pay royalty on the value of all oil and gas used off the premises for development and operating purposes. Lessee shall be responsible for the correct measurement and reporting of all oil and/or gas taken from the leased premises.
(b) Lessee shall require the purchaser of oil and/or gas from his/her lease or leases to furnish the Superintendent, no later than the 25th day of each month, a statement reporting the gross barrels of oil and/or gross Mcf of gas sold during the preceding month. The Superintendent may authorize an extension of time, not to exceed 10 days, for furnishing this statement.
§ 226.15
Unit leases, assignments and related instruments.
(a)
Unitization of leases.
The Osage Tribal Council and Lessee or Lessees, may, with the approval of the Superintendent, unitize or merge, two or more oil or oil and gas leases into a unit or cooperative operating plan to promote the greatest ultimate recovery of oil and gas from a common source of supply or portion thereof embracing the lands covered by such lease or leases. The cooperative or unit agreement shall be subject to the regulations in this part and applicable laws governing the leasing of the Osage Mineral Estate. Any agreement between the parties in interest to terminate a unit or cooperative agreement as to all or any portion of the lands included shall be submitted to the Superintendent for his approval. Upon approval the leases included thereunder shall be restored to their original terms:
Provided,
That for the purpose of preventing waste and to promote the greatest ultimate recovery of oil and gas from a common source of supply or portion thereof, all oil leases, oil and gas leases, and gas leases issued heretofore and hereafter under the provisions of the regulations in this part shall be subject to any unit development plan affecting the leased lands that may be required by the Superintendent with the consent of the Osage Tribal Council, and which plan shall adequately protect the rights of all parties in interest including the Osage Mineral Estate.
(b)
Assignments.
Approved leases or any interest therein may be assigned or transferred only with the approval of the Superintendent. The assignee must be qualified to hold such lease under existing rules and regulations and shall furnish a satisfactory bond conditioned for the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions thereof. Lessee must assign either his entire interest in a lease or legal subdivision thereof, or an undivided interest in the whole lease:
Provided,
That when an assignment covers only a portion of a lease or covers interests in separate horizons such assignment shall be subject to both the consent of the Osage Tribal Council and approval of the Superintendent. If a lease is divided by the assignment of an entire interest in any part, each part shall be considered a separate lease and the assignee shall be bound to comply with all the terms and conditions of the original lease. A fully executed copy of the assignment shall be filed with the Superintendent within 30 days after the date of execution by all parties. If requested within the 30-day period, the Superintendent may grant an extension of 15 days. A filing fee of $10 shall accompany each assignment.
(c)
Overriding royalty.
Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production shall not be considered as an interest in a lease as such term is used in paragraph (b) of this section. Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production are hereby authorized and the approval of the Department of the Interior or any agency thereof shall not be required with respect thereto, but such agreements shall be subject to the condition that nothing in any such agreement shall be construed as modifying any of the obligations of Lessee under his lease and the regulations in this part. All such obligations are to remain in full force and effect, the same as if free of any such royalties or payments. The existence of agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production, whether or not actually paid, shall not be considered in justifying the shutdown or abandonment of any well. Agreements creating overriding royalties or payments out of production need not be
filed with the Superintendent unless incorporated in assignments or instruments required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. An agreement creating overriding royalties or payment out of production shall be suspended when the working interest income per active producing well is equal to or less than the operational cost of the well, as determined by the Superintendent.
(d)
Drilling contracts.
The Superintendent is authorized to approve drilling contracts with a stipulation that such approval does not in any way bind the Department to approve subsequent assignments that may be provided for in said contracts. Approval merely authorizes entry on the lease for the purpose of development work.
(e)
Combining leases.
The lessee owning both an oil lease and gas lease covering the same acreage is authorized to convert such leases to a combination oil and gas lease.

# Operations
§ 226.16
Commencement of operations.
(a) No operations shall be permitted upon any tract of land until a lease covering such tract shall have been approved by the Superintendent:
Provided,
That the Superintendent may grant authority to any party under such rules, consistent with the regulations in this part that he deems proper, to conduct geophysical and geological exploration work.
(b) Lessee shall submit applications on forms to be furnished by the Superintendent and secure his approval before:
(1) Well drilling, treating, or workover operations are started on the leased premises.
(2) Removing casing from any well.
(c) Lessee shall notify the Superintendent a reasonable time in advance of starting work, of intention to drill, redrill, deepen, plug, or abandon a well.
§ 226.17
How to acquire permission to begin operations on a restricted homestead allotment.
(a) Lessee may conduct operations within or upon a restricted homestead selection only with the written consent of the Superintendent.
(b) If the allottee is unwilling to permit operations on his homestead, the Superintendent will cause an examination of the premises to be made with the allottee and lessee or his representative. Upon finding that the interests of the Osage Tribe require that the tract be developed, the Superintendent will endeavor to have the parties agree upon the terms under which operations on the homestead may be conducted.
(c) In the event the allottee and lessee cannot reach an agreement, the matter shall be presented by all parties before the Osage Tribal Council, and the Council shall make its recommendations. Such recommendations shall be considered as final and binding upon the allottee and lessee. A guardian may represent the allottee. Where no one is authorized or where no person is deemed by the Superintendent to be a proper party to speak for a person of unsound mind or feeble understanding, the Principal Chief of the Osage Tribe shall represent him.
(d) If the allottee or his representative does not appear before the Osage Tribal Council when notified by the Superintendent, or if the Council fails to act within 10 days after the matter is referred to it, the Superintendent may authorize lessee to proceed with operations in conformity with the provisions of his lease and the regulations in this part.
§ 226.18
Information to be given surface owners prior to commencement of drilling operations.
Except for the surveying and staking of a well, no operations of any kind shall commence until the lessee or his/her authorized representative shall meet with the surface owner or his/her representative, if a resident of and present in Osage County, Oklahoma. Unless waived by the Superintendent or otherwise agreed to between the lessee and surface owner, such meeting shall be held at least 10 days prior to the commencement or any operations, except for the surveying and staking of the well. At such meeting lessee or his/her authorized representative shall comply with the following requirements:
(a) Indicate the location of the well or wells to be drilled.
(b) Arrange for route of ingress and egress. Upon failure to agree on route ingress and egress, said route shall be set by the Superintendent.
(c) Impart to said surface owners the name and address of the party or representative upon whom the surface owner shall serve any claim for damages which he may sustain from mineral development or operations, and as to the procedure for settlement thereof as provided in § 226.21.
(d) Where the drilling is to be on restricted land, lessee or his authorized representative in the manner provided above shall meet with the Superintendent.
(e) When the surface owner or his/her representative is not a resident of, or is not physically present in, Osage County, Oklahoma, or cannot be contacted at the last known address, the Superintendent may authorize lessee to proceed with operations.
§ 226.19
Use of surface of land.
(a) Lessee or his/her authorized representative shall have the right to use so much of the surface of the land within the Osage Mineral Estate as may be reasonable for operations and marketing. This includes but is not limited to the right to lay and maintain pipelines, electric lines, pull rods, other appliances necessary for operations and marketing, and the right-of-way for ingress and egress to any point of operations. If Lessee and surface owner are unable to agree as to the routing of pipelines, electric lines, etc., said routing shall be set by the Superintendent. The right to use water for lease operations is established by § 226.24. Lessee shall conduct his/her operations in a workmanlike manner, commit no waste and allow none to be committed upon the land, nor permit any unavoidable nuisance to be maintained on the premises under his/her control.
(b) Before commencing a drilling operation, Lessee shall pay or tender to the surface owner commencement money in the amount of $25 per seismic shot hole and commencement money in the amount of $300 for each well, after which Lessee shall be entitled to immediate possession of the drilling site. Commencement money will not be required for the redrilling of a well which was originally drilled under the currently lease. A drilling site shall be held to the minimum area essential for operations and shall not exceed one and one-half acres in area unless authorized by the Superintendent. Commencement money shall be a credit toward the settlement of the total damages. Acceptance of commencement money by the surface owner does not affect his/her right to compensation for damages as described in § 226.20, occasioned by the drilling and completion of the well for which it was paid. Since actual damage to the surface from operations cannot necessarily be ascertained prior to the completion of a well as a serviceable well or dry hole, a damage settlement covering the drilling operation need not be made until after completion of drilling operations.
(c) Where the surface is restricted land, commencement money shall be paid to the Superintendent for the landowner. All other surface owners shall be paid or tendered such commencement money direct. Where such surface owners are not residents of Osage County nor have a representative located therein, such payment shall be made or tendered to the last known address of the surface owner at least 5 days before commencing drilling operation on any well:
Provided,
That should lessee be unable to reach the owner of the surface of the land for the purpose of tendering the commencement money or if the owner of the surface of the land shall refuse to accept the same, lessee shall deposit such amount with the Superintendent by check payable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The superintendent shall thereupon advise the owner of the surface of the land by mail at his last known address that the commencement money is being held for payment to him upon his written request.
(d) Lessee shall also pay fees for tank sites not exceeding 50 feet square at the rate of $100 per tank site or other vessel:
Provided,
That no payment shall be due for a tank temporarily set on a well location site for drilling, completing, or testing. The sum to be paid for a tank occupying more than 50 feet square shall be agreed upon between
the surface owner and lessee or, on failure to agree, the same shall be determined by arbitration as provided by § 226.21.
§ 226.20
Settlement of damages claimed.
(a) Lessee or his authorized representative or geophysical permittee shall pay for all damages to growing crops, any improvements on the lands, and all other surface damages as may be occasioned by operations. Commencement money shall be a credit toward the settlement of the total damages occasioned by the drilling and completion of the well for which it was paid. Such damages shall be paid to the owner of the surface and by him apportioned among the parties interested in the surface, whether as owner, surface lessee, or otherwise, as the parties may mutually agree or as their interests may appear. If lessee or his authorized representative and surface owner are unable to agree concerning damages, the same shall be determined by arbitration. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to deny any party the right to file an action in a court of competent jurisdiction if he is dissatisfied with the amount of the award.
(b) Surface owners shall notify their lessees or tenants of the regulations in this part and of the necessary procedure to follow in all cases of alleged damages. If so authorized in writing, surface lessees or tenants may represent the surface owners.
(c) In settlement of damages on restricted land all sums due and payable shall be paid to the Superintendent for credit to the account of the Indian entitled thereto. The Superintendent will make the apportionment between the Indian landowner or owners and surface Lessee of record.
(d) Any person claiming an interest in any leased tract or in damages thereto, must furnish to the Superintendent a statement in writing showing said claimed interest. Failure to furnish such statement shall constitute a waiver of notice and estop said person from claiming any part of such damages after the same shall have been disbursed.
§ 226.21
Procedure for settlement of damages claimed.
Where the surface owner or his lessee suffers damage due to the oil and gas operations and/or marketing of oil or gas by lessee or his authorized representative, the procedure for recovery shall be as follows:
(a) The party or parties aggrieved shall, as soon as possible after the discovery of any damages, serve written notice to Lessee or his authorized representative as provided by § 226.18. Written notice shall contain the nature and location of the alleged damages, the date of occurrence, the names of the party or parties causing said damages, and the amount of damages. It is not intended by this requirement to limit the time within which action may be brought in the courts to less than the 90-day period allowed by section 2 of the Act of March 2, 1929 (45 Stat. 1478, 1479).
(b) If the alleged damages are not adjusted at the time of such notice, Lessee or his authorized representative shall try to adjust the claim with the party or parties aggrieved within 20 days from receipt of the notice. If the claimant is the owner of restricted property and a settlement results, a copy of the settlement agreement shall be filed with the Superintendent. If the settlement agreement is approved by the Superintendent, payment shall be made to the Superintendent for the benefit of said claimant.
(c) If the parties fail to adjust the claim within the 20 days specified, then within 10 days thereafter each of the interested parties shall appoint an arbitrator who immediately upon their appointment shall agree upon a third arbitrator. If the two arbitrators shall fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within 10 days, they shall immediately notify the parties in interest. If said parties cannot agree upon a third arbitrator within 5 days after receipt of such notice, the Superintendent shall appoint the third arbitrator.
(d) As soon as the third arbitrator is appointed, the arbitrators shall meet; hear the evidence and arguments of the parties; and examine the lands, crops, improvements, or other property alleged to have been injured. Within 10 days they shall render their decision as
to the amount of the damage due. The arbitrators shall be disinterested persons. The fees and expenses of the third arbitrator shall be borne equally by the claimant and Lessee or his authorized representative. Each Lessee or his authorized representative and claimant shall pay the fee and expenses for the arbitrator appointed by him.
(e) When an act of an oil or gas lessee or his authorized representative results in injury to both the surface owner and his lessee, the parties aggrieved shall join in the appointment of an arbitrator. Where the injury complained of is chargeable to one or more oil or gas Lessee, or his authorized representative, such lessee or said representative shall join in the appointment of an arbitrator.
(f) Any two of the arbitrators may make a decision as to the amount of damage due. The decision shall be in writing and shall be served forthwith upon the parties in interest. Each party shall have 90 days from the date the decision is served in which to file an action in a court of competent jurisdiction. If no such action is filed within said time and the award is against Lessee or his/her authorized representative, he/she shall pay the same, together with interest at an annual rate established for the Internal Revenue Service from date of award, within 10 days after the expiration of said period for filing an action.
(g) Lessee or his authorized representative shall file with the Superintendent a report on each settlement agreement, setting out the nature and location of the damage, date, and amount of the settlement, and any other pertinent information.
§ 226.22
Prohibition of pollution.
(a) All operators, contractors, drillers, service companies, pipe pulling and salvaging contractors, or other persons, shall at all times conduct their operations and drill, equip, operate, produce, plug and abandon all wells drilled for oil or gas, service wells or exploratory wells (including seismic, core and stratigraphic holes) in a manner that will prevent pollution and the migration of oil, gas, salt water or other substance from one stratum into another, including any fresh water bearing formation.
(b) Pits for drilling mud or deleterious substance used in the drilling, completion, recompletion, or workover of any well shall be constructed and maintained to prevent pollution of surface and subsurface fresh water. These pits shall be enclosed with a fence of at least four strands of barbed wire, or an approved substitute, stretched taut to adequately braced corner posts, unless the surface owner, user, or the Superintendent gives consent to the contrary. Immediately after completion of operations, pits shall be emptied and leveled unless otherwise requested by surface owner or user.
(c) Drilling pits shall be adequate to contain mud and other material extracted from wells and shall have adequate storage to maintain a supply of mud for use in emergencies.
(d) No earthen pit, except those used in the drilling, completion, recompletion or workover of a well, shall be constructed, enlarged, reconstructed or used without approval of the Superintendent. Unlined earthen pits shall not be used for the continued storage of salt water or other deleterious substances.
(e) Deleterious fluids other than fresh water drilling fluids used in drilling or workover operations, which are displaced or produced in well completion or stimulation procedures, including but not limited to fracturing, acidizing, swabbing, and drill stem tests, shall be collected into a pit lined with plastic of at least 30 mil or a metal tank and maintained separately from above-mentioned drilling fluids to allow for separate disposal.
§ 226.23
Easements for wells off leased premises.
The Superintendent, with the consent of the Osage Tribal Council, may grant commercial and noncommercial easements for wells off the leased premises to be used for purposes associated with oil and gas production. Rental payable to the Osage Tribe for such easements shall be an amount agreed to by Grantee and the Osage Tribal Council subject to the approval of the Superintendent. Grantee shall be responsible for all damages resulting
from the use of such wells and settlement therefor shall be made as provided in § 226.21.
§ 226.24
Lessee's use of water.
Lessee or his contractor may, with the approval of the Superintendent, use water from streams and natural water courses to the extent that same does not diminish the supply below the requirements of the surface owner from whose land the water is taken. Similarly, Lessee or his contractor may use water from reservoirs formed by the impoundment of water from such streams and natural water courses, provided such use does not exceed the quantity to which they originally would have been entitled had the reservoirs not been constructed. Lessee or his contractor may install necessary lines and other equipment within the Osage Mineral Estate to obtain such water. Any damage resulting from such installation shall be settled as provided in § 226.21.
§ 226.25
Gas well drilled by oil lessees and vice versa.
Prior to drilling, the oil or gas lessee shall notify the other lessees of his/her intent to drill. When an oil lessee in drilling a well encounters a formation or zone having indications of possible gas production, or the gas lessee in drilling a well encounters a formation or zone having indication of possible oil production, he/she shall immediately notify the other lessee and the Superintendent. Lessee drilling the well shall obtain all information which a prudent operator utilizes to evaluate the productive capability of such formation or zone.
(a)
Gas well to be turned over to gas lessee.
If the oil lessee drills a gas well, he/she shall, without removing from the well any of the casing or other equipment, immediately shut the well in and notify the gas lessee and the Superintendent. If the gas lessee does not, within 45 days after receiving notice and cost of drilling, elect to take over such well and reimburse the oil lessee the cost of drilling, including all damages paid and the cost in-place of casing, tubing, and other equipment, the oil lessee shall immediately confine the gas to the original stratum. The disposition of such well and the production therefrom shall then be subject to the approval of the Superintendent. In the event the oil lessee and gas lessee cannot agree on the cost of the well, such cost shall be apportioned between the oil and gas lessee by the Superintendent. If such apportionment is not accepted, the well shall be plugged by the oil and gas lessee who drilled the well.
(b) Oil well to be turned over to oil lessee. If the gas lessee drills an oil well, he/she must immediately, without removing from the well any of the casing or other equipment, notify the oil lessee and the superintendent.
(1) If the oil lessee does not, within 45 days after receipt of notice and cost of drilling, elect to take over the well, he/she must immediately notify the gas lessee. From that point, the superintendent must approve the disposition of the well, and any gas produced from it.
(2) If the oil lessee chooses to take over the well, he/she must pay to the gas lessee:
(i) The cost of drilling the well, including all damages paid; and
(ii) The cost in place of casing and other equipment.
(3) If the oil lessee and the gas lessee cannot agree on the cost of the well, the superintendent will apportion the cost between the oil and gas lessees. If the lessees do not accept the apportionment, the oil or gas lessee who drilled the well must plug the well.
(c)
Lands not leased.
If the gas lessee shall drill an oil well upon lands not leased for oil purposes or vice versa, the Superintendent may, until such time as said lands are leased, permit the lessee who drilled the well to operate and market the production therefrom. When said lands are leased, the lessee who drilled and completed the well shall be reimbursed by the oil or gas lessee, for the cost of drilling said well, including all damages paid and the cost in-place of casing, tubing, and other equipment. If the lessee does not elect to take over said well as provided above, the disposition of such well and the production therefrom shall be determined by the Superintendent. In the event the oil lessee and gas lessee cannot agree on the cost of the well, such
cost shall be apportioned between the oil and gas lessee by the Superintendent. If such apportionment is not accepted, the well shall be plugged by the oil and gas lessee who drilled the well.
§ 226.26
Determining cost of well.
The term “cost of drilling” as applied where one lessee takes over a well drilled by another, shall include all reasonable, usual, necessary, and proper expenditures. A list of expenses mentioned in this section shall be presented to proposed purchasing lessee within 10 days after the completion of the well. In the event of a disagreement between the parties as to the charges assessed against the well that is to be taken over, such charges shall be determined by the Superintendent.
§ 226.27
Gas for operating purposes and tribal use.
(a)
Gas to be furnished oil lessee.
Lessee of a producing gas lease shall furnish the oil lessee sufficient gas for operating purposes at a rate to be agreed upon, or on failure to agree the rate shall be determined by the Superintendent:
Provided,
That the oil lessee shall at his own expense and risk, furnish and install the necessary connections to the gas lessee's well or pipeline. All such connections shall be reported in writing to the Superintendent.
(b)
Use of gas by Osage Tribe.
(1) Gas from any well or wells shall be furnished any Tribal-owned building or enterprise at a rate not to exceed the price less royalty being received or offered by a gas purchaser:
Provided,
That such requirement shall be subject to the determination by the Superintendent that gas in sufficient quantities is available above that needed for lease operation and that no waste would result. In the absence of a gas purchaser the rate to be paid by the Osage Tribe shall be determined by the Superintendent based on prices being paid by purchasers in the Osage Mineral Estate. The Osage Tribe is to furnish all necessary material and labor for such connection with Lessee's gas system. The use of such gas shall be at the risk of the Osage Tribe at all times.
(2) Any member of the Osage Tribe residing in Osage County and outside a corporate city is entitled to the use at his own expense of not to exceed 400,000 cubic feet of gas per calendar year for his principal residence at a rate not to exceed the amount paid by a gas purchaser plus 10 percent:
Provided,
That such requirement shall be subject to the determination by the Superintendent that gas in sufficient quantities is available above that needed for lease operation and that no waste would result. In the absence of a gas purchaser the amount to be paid by the Tribal member shall be determined by the Superintendent. Gas to Tribal members is not royalty free. The Tribal member is to furnish all necessary material and labor for such connection to Lessee's gas system, and shall maintain his own lines. The use of such gas shall be at the risk of the Tribal member at all times.
(3) Gas furnished by Lessee under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section may be terminated only with the approval of the Superintendent. Written application for termination must be made to the Superintendent showing justification.

# Cessation of Operations
§ 226.28
Shutdown, abandonment, and plugging of wells.
No productive well shall be abandoned until its lack for further profitable production of oil and/or gas has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. Lessee shall not shut down, abandon, or otherwise discontinue the operation or use of any well for any purpose without the written approval of the Superintendent. All applications for such approval shall be submitted to the Superintendent on forms furnished by him/her.
(a) Application for authority to permanently shut down or discontinue use or operation of a well shall set forth justification, probable duration the means by which the well bore is to be protected, and the contemplated eventual disposition of the well. The method of conditioning such well shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent.
(b) Prior to permanent abandonment of any well, the oil lessee or the gas lessee, as the case may be, shall offer the well to the other for his recompletion or use under such terms as may be mutually agreed upon but not in conflict with the regulations. Failure of the Lessee receiving the offer to reply within 10 days after receipt thereof shall be deemed as rejection of the offer. If, after indicating acceptance, the two parties cannot agree on the terms of the offer within 30 days, the disposition of such well shall be determined by the Superintendent.
(c) The Superintendent is authorized to shut in a lease when the lessee fails to comply with the terms of the lease, the regulations, and/or orders of the Superintendent.
§ 226.29
Disposition of casings and other improvements.
(a) Upon termination of lease, permanent improvements, unless otherwise provided by written agreement with the surface owner and filed with the Superintendent, shall remain a part of said land and become the property of the surface owner upon termination of the lease, other than by cancellation. Exceptions include personal property not limited to tools, tanks, pipelines, pumping and drilling equipment, derricks, engines, machinery, tubing, and the casings of all wells: Provided, That when any lease terminates, all such personal property shall be removed the word “terminates”; and in the last sentence of the paragraph, within 90 days or such reasonable extension of time as may be granted by the Superintendent. Otherwise, the ownership of all casings shall revert to Lessor and all other personal property and permanent improvements to the surface owner. Nothing herein shall be construed to relieve lessee of responsibility for removing any such personal property or permanent improvements from the premises if required by the Superintendent and restoring the premises as nearly as practicable to the original state.
(b) Upon cancellation of lease. When there has been a cancellation for cause, Lessor shall be entitled and authorized to take immediate possession of the lease premises and all permanent improvements and all other equipment necessary for the operation of the lease.
(c) Wells to be abandoned shall be promptly plugged as prescribed by the Superintendent. Applications to plug shall include a statement affirming compliance with § 226.28(b) and shall set forth reasons for plugging, a detailed statement of the proposed work including kind, location, and length of plugs (by depth), plans for mudding and cementing, testing, parting and removing casing, and any other pertinent information:
Provided,
That the Superintendent may give oral permission and instructions pending receipt of a written application to plug a newly drilled hole. Lessee shall remit a fee of $15 with each written application for authority to plug a well. This fee will be refunded if permission is not granted.
(d) Lessee shall plug and fill all dry or abandoned wells in a manner to confine the fluid in each formation bearing fresh water, oil, gas, salt water, and other minerals, and to protect it against invasion of fluids from other sources. Mud-laden fluid, cement, and other plugs shall be used to fill the hole from bottom to top:
Provided,
That if a satisfactory agreement is reached between Lessee and the surface owner, subject to the approval of the Superintendent, Lessee may condition the well for use as a fresh water well and shall so indicate on the plugging record. The manner in which plugging material shall be introduced and the type of material so used shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent. Within 10 days after plugging, Lessee shall file with the Superintendent a complete report of the plugging of each well. When any well is plugged and abandoned, Lessee shall, within 90 days, clean up the premises around such well to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.

# Requirements of Lessees
§ 226.30
Lessees subject to Superintendent's orders; books and records open to inspection.
Lessee shall comply with all orders or instructions issued by the Superintendent. The Superintendent or his representative may enter upon the
leased premises for the purpose of inspection. Lessee shall keep a full and correct account of all operations, receipts, and disbursements and make reports thereof, as required. Lessee's books and records shall be available to the Superintendent for inspection.
§ 226.31
Lessee's process agents.
(a) Before actual drilling or development operations are commenced on leased lands, Lessee or Assignee, if not a resident of the State of Oklahoma, shall appoint a local or resident representative within the State of Oklahoma on whom the Superintendent may serve notice or otherwise communicate in securing compliance with the regulations in this part, and shall notify the Superintendent of the name and post office address of the representative appointed.
(b) Where several parties own a lease jointly, one representative or agent shall be designated whose duties shall be to act for all parties concerned. Designation of such representative should be made by the party in charge of operations.
(c) In the event of the incapacity or absence from the State of Oklahoma of such designated local or resident representative, Lessee shall appoint a substitute to serve in his stead. In the absence of such representative or appointed substitute, any employee of Lessee upon the leased premises or person in charge of drilling or related operations thereon shall be considered the representative of Lessee for the purpose of service of orders or notices as herein provided.
§ 226.32
Well records and reports.
(a) Lessee shall keep accurate and complete records of the drilling, redrilling, deepening, repairing, treating, plugging, or abandonment of all wells. These records shall show all the formations penetrated, the content and character of oil, gas, or water in each formation, and the kind, weight, size, landed depth and cement record of casing used in drilling each well; the record of drill-stem and other bottom hole pressure or fluid sample surveys, temperature surveys, directional surveys, and the like; the materials and procedure used in the treating or plugging of wells or in preparing them for temporary abandonment; and any other information obtained in the course of well operation.
(b) Lessee shall take such samples and make such tests and surveys as may be required by the Superintendent to determine conditions in the well or producing reservoir and to obtain information concerning formations drilled, and shall furnish reports thereof as required by the Superintendent.
(c) Within 10 days after completion of operations on any well, Lessee shall transmit to the Superintendent the applicable information on forms furnished by the Superintendent; a copy of electrical, mechanical or radioactive log, or other types of survey of the well bore; and core analysis obtained from the well. Lessee shall also submit other reports and records of operations as may be required and in the manner and form prescribed by the Superintendent.
(d) Lessee shall measure production of oil, gas, and water from individual wells at reasonably frequent intervals to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
(e) Upon request and in the manner and form prescribed by the Superintendent, Lessee shall furnish a plat showing the location, designation, and status of all wells on the leased lands, together with such other pertinent information as the Superintendent may require.
§ 226.33
Line drilling.
Lessee shall not drill within 300 feet of boundary line of leased lands, nor locate any well or tank within 200 feet of any public highway, any established watering place, or any building used as a dwelling, granary, or barn, except with the written permission of the Superintendent. Failure to obtain advance written permission from the Superintendent shall subject lessee to cancellation of his/her lease and/or plugging of the well.
§ 226.34
Wells and tank batteries to be marked.
Lessee shall clearly and permanently mark all wells and tank batteries in a conspicuous place with number, legal description, operator, and telephone number, and shall take all necessary
precautions to preserve these markings.
§ 226.35
Formations to be protected.
Lessee shall, to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, take all proper precautions and measures to prevent damage or pollution of oil, gas, fresh water, or other mineral bearing formations.
§ 226.36
Control devices.
In drilling operations in fields where high pressures, lost circulation, or other conditions exist which could result in blowouts, lessee shall install an approved gate valve or other controlling device which is in proper working condition for use until the well is completed. At all times preventative measures must be taken in all well operations to maintain proper control of subsurface strata.
§ 226.37
Waste of oil and gas.
Lessee shall conduct all operations in a manner that will prevent waste of oil and gas and shall not wastefully utilize oil or gas. The Superintendent shall have the authority to impose such requirements as he deems necessary to prevent waste of oil and gas and to promote the greatest ultimate recovery of oil and gas. Waste as applied herein includes, but is not limited to, the inefficient excessive or improper use or dissipation of reservoir energy which would reasonably reduce or diminish the quantity of oil or gas that might ultimately be produced, or the unnecessary or excessive surface loss or destruction, without beneficial use, of oil and/or gas.
§ 226.38
Measuring and storing oil.
All production run from the lease shall be measured according to methods and devices approved by the Superintendent. Facilities suitable for containing and measuring accurately all crude oil produced from the wells shall be provided by Lessee and shall be located on the leasehold unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Lessee shall furnish to the Superintendent a copy of 100-percent capacity tank table for each tank. Meters and installations for measuring oil must be approved, and tests of their accuracy shall be made when directed by the Superintendent.
§ 226.39
Measurement of gas.
All gas, required to be measured, shall be measured by meter (preferably of the orifice meter type) unless otherwise agreed to by the Superintendent. All gas meters must be approved by the Superintendent and installed at the expense of Lessee or purchaser at such places as may be agreed to by the Superintendent. For computing the volume of all gas produced, sold or subject to royalty, the standard of pressure shall be 14.65 pounds to the square inch, and the standard of temperature shall be 60 degrees F. All measurements of gas shall be adjusted by computation to these standards, regardless of the pressure and temperature at which the gas was actually measured, unless otherwise authorized in writing by the Superintendent.
§ 226.40
Use of gas for lifting oil.
Lessee shall not use natural gas from a distinct or separate stratum for the purpose of flowing or lifting the oil, except where said Lessee has an approved right to both the oil and the gas, and then only with the approval of the Superintendent of such use and of the manner of its use.
§ 226.41
Accidents to be reported.
Lessee shall make a complete report to the Superintendent of all accidents, fires, or acts of theft and vandalism occurring on the leased premises.

# Penalties
§ 226.42
Penalty for violation of lease terms.
Violation of any of the terms or conditions of any lease or of the regulations in this part shall subject the lease to cancellation by the Superintendent, or Lessee to a fine of not more than $1,153 per day for each day of such violation or noncompliance with the orders of the Superintendent, or to both such fine and cancellation. Fines not received within 10 days after notice of the decision shall be subject to late charges at the rate of not less than 11/2 percent per month for each month or fraction thereof until paid.
The Osage Tribal Council, subject to the approval of the Superintendent, may waive the late charge.
[81 FR 39573, June 17, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7653, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 226.43
Penalties for violation of certain operating regulations.
In lieu of the penalties provided under § 226.42, penalties may be imposed by the Superintendent for violation of certain sections of the regulations of this part as follows:
(a) For failure to obtain permission to start operations required by § 226.16(b), $115 per day until permission is obtained.
(b) For failure to file records required by § 226.32, $115 per day until compliance is met.
(c) For failure to mark wells and tank batteries as required by § 226.34, $115 for each well and tank battery.
(d) For failure to construct and maintain pits as required by § 226.22, $115 for each day after operations are commenced on any well until compliance is met.
(e) For failure to comply with § 226.36 regarding valve or other approved controlling device, $230.
(f) For failure to notify Superintendent before drilling, redrilling, deepening, plugging, or abandoning any well, as required by §§ 226.16(c) and 226.25, $460.
(g) For failure to properly care for and dispose of deleterious fluids as provided in § 226.22, $1,153 per day until compliance is met.
(h) For failure to file plugging reports as required by § 226.29 and for failure to file reports as required by § 226.13, $115 per day for each violation until compliance is met.
(i) For failure to perform or start an operation within 5 days after ordered by the Superintendent in writing under authority provided in this part, if said operation is thereafter performed by or through the Superintendent, the actual cost of performance thereof, plus 25 percent.
(j) Lessee or his/her authorized representative is hereby notified that criminal procedures are provided by 18 U.S.C. 1001 for knowingly filing fraudulent reports and information.
[81 FR 39573, June 17, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7653, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]

# Appeals and Notices
§ 226.44
Appeals.
Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any decision or order issued by or under the authority of the Superintendent, by virtue of the regulations in this part, may appeal pursuant to 25 CFR part 2.
§ 226.45
Notices.
Notices and orders issued by the Superintendent to the representative and/or operator shall be binding on the lessee. The Superintendent may in his/her discretion increase the time allowed in his/her orders and notices.
§ 226.46
Information collection.
The Office of Management and Budget has determined that the information collection requirements contained in this part need not be submitted for clearance pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
Pt. 227

# PART 227—LEASING OF CERTAIN LANDS IN WIND RIVER INDIAN RESERVATION, WYOMING, FOR OIL AND GAS MINING
Sec.
227.1
Definitions.

# How To Acquire Leases
227.2
Applications for leases.
227.3
Leases to citizens of the United States except Government employees.
227.4
Sale of oil and gas leases.
227.5
Terms of leases, procedure for renewal and execution.
227.6
Corporations and corporate information.
227.7
Additional information from applicant.
227.8
Bonds.
227.9
Acreage limitation: Leases on noncontiguous tracts.
227.10
Minerals other than oil and gas.
227.11
Bureau of Land Management to be furnished copy of lease.
227.12
Mineral reserves in nonmineral entries.
227.13
Vested rights to be respected.
227.14
Government reserves right to purchase oil and gas.

# Rents and Royalties
227.15
Manner of payment.
227.16
Crediting advance annual payments.
227.17
Rates of rents and royalties.
227.18
Free use of gas by lessor.
227.19
Division orders.

# Operations
227.20
Permission to start operations.
227.21
Restrictions on operations.
227.22
Diligence and prevention of waste.
227.23
Wells.
227.24
Penalties.
227.25
Inspection of premises, books and accounts.
227.26
Assignments and overriding royalties.
227.27
Stipulations.
227.28
Cancellations.
227.29
Fees.
227.30
Forms.

# Authority:
Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 519; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
22 FR 10622, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 227.1
Definitions.
(a) The term “superintendent” in this part refers to the superintendent or other officers of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or of the Government who may have jurisdiction over the Shoshone or Wind River Reservation.
(b) The term “supervisor” in this part refers to a representative of the Secretary of the Interior, under direction of the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, authorized and empowered to supervise and direct operations under oil and gas mining leases, to furnish scientific and technical information and advice, to ascertain and record the amount and value of production, and to determine and record rentals and royalties due and paid.

# Cross Reference:
For rules and regulations of the Geological Survey, see 30 CFR chapter II.

# How To Acquire Leases
§ 227.2
Applications for leases.
Applications for leases should be made to the superintendent.
§ 227.3
Leases to citizens of the United States except Government employees.
Leases will be made only to persons who are citizens of the United States or have declared their intention to become so, or corporations which are organized under the laws of the United States or one of the States or Territories:
Provided,
That no lease, assignment thereof, or interest therein will be approved to any employee or employees of the United States Government, whether connected with the Bureau or otherwise, and no employee of the Interior Department shall be permitted to acquire any interest in such leases by ownership of stock in corporations having leases or in any other manner.
(R.S. 2078; 25 U.S.C. 68)
§ 227.4
Sale of oil and gas leases.
(a) At such times and in such manner as he may deem appropriate, after being authorized by the Joint Business Council of the Shoshone and Arapahoe Tribes or its authorized representative, the superintendent shall publish notices at least thirty days prior to the sale, unless a shorter period is authorized by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative, that oil and gas leases on specific tracts, each of which shall be in a reasonably compact body, will be offered to the highest responsible bidder for a bonus consideration, in addition to stipulated rentals and royalties. Each bid must be accompanied by a cashier's check, certified check, or postal money order, payable to the payee designated in the invitation to bid, in an amount not less than 25 percent of the bonus bid. Within 30 days after notification of being the successful bidder, said bidder must remit the balance of the bonus, the first year's rental, and his share of the advertising costs, and shall file with the superintendent the lease in completed form. The superintendent may for good and sufficient reasons, extend the time for completion and submission of the lease form, but no extension shall be granted for remitting the balance of monies due. If the successful bidder fails to pay the full consideration within said period, or fails to file
the completed lease within said period or extension thereof, or if the lease is disapproved through no fault of the lessor or the Department of the Interior, 25 percent of the bonus bid will be forfeited for the use and benefit of the Shoshone and Arapahoe Tribes.
(b) All notices or advertisements of sales of oil and gas leases shall reserve to the Secretary of the Interior the right to reject all bids when in his judgment the interests of the Indians will be best served by so doing, and that if no satisfactory bid is received, or if the accepted bidder fails to complete the lease, or if the Secretary of the Interior shall determine that it is unwise in the interests of the Indians to accept the highest bid, the Secretary may readvertise such lease for sale, or if deemed advisable, with the consent of the tribal council or other governing tribal authorities, a lease may be made by private negotiations. The successful bidder or bidders will be required to pay his or their share of the advertising costs. Amounts received from unsuccessful bidders will be returned; but when no bid is accepted on a tract, the costs of advertising will be assessed against the applicant who requested that said tract be advertised.
[22 FR 10622, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 25 FR 7185, July 29, 1960. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 227.5
Terms of leases, procedure for renewal and execution.
(a) Leases shall be for a period of twenty years with the preferential right in the lessee to renew the same for successive periods of ten years each upon such reasonable terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative, unless otherwise provided by law at the expiration of any such period. Applications for renewal of leases shall be filed with the superintendent within ninety days prior to the date of expiration of the lease. One copy of the application for renewal shall be filed by the applicant with the Joint Business Council of the Shoshone and Arapahoe Tribes and no lease shall be renewed unless the Joint Business Council or its authorized representative is afforded an opportunity to present the Council's views to the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(b) The Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative may execute oil and gas leases with the consent of the Joint Business Council or its authorized representative, and may execute renewals of leases after consultation with the Joint Business Council or its authorized representative.
[25 FR 7185, July 29, 1960. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 227.6
Corporations and corporate information.
(a) If the applicant for a lease is a corporation, it shall file evidence of authority of its officers to execute papers; and with its first application it shall also file a certified copy of its articles of incorporation, and, if foreign to the state in which the lands are located, evidence showing compliance with the corporation laws thereof. Statements of changes in officers and stockholders shall be furnished by a corporation lessee to the superintendent January 1 of each year, and at such other times as may be requested.
(b) Whenever deemed advisable in any case the superintendent may require a corporation applicant or lessee to file:
(1) List of officers, principal stockholders, and directors, with post-office addresses and number of shares held by each.
(2) A sworn statement of the proper officer showing:
(i) The total number of shares of the capital stock actually issued and the amount of cash paid into the treasury on each share sold; or, if paid in property, the kind, quantity, and value of same paid per share.
(ii) Of the stock sold, how much remains unpaid and subject to assessment.
(iii) The amount of cash the company has in its treasury and elsewhere.
(iv) The property, exclusive of cash owned by the company and its value.
(v) The total indebtedness of the company and the nature of its obligations.
(vi) Whether the applicant or any person controlling, controlled by or
under common control with the applicant has filed any registration statement, application for registration, prospectus or offering sheet with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or said Commission's rules and regulations under said acts; if so, under what provision of said acts or rules and regulations; and what disposition of any such statement, application, prospectus or offering sheet has been made.
(c) Affidavits of individual stockholders, setting forth in what corporations, or with what persons, firms, or associations such individual stockholders are interested in mining leases on restricted lands within the state, and whether they hold such interest for themselves or in trust.

# Cross Reference:
For rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, see 17 CFR chapter II.
§ 227.7
Additional information from applicant.
The superintendent may, either before or after approval of a lease, call for any additional information desired to carry out the regulations in this part. If a lessee shall fail to furnish the papers necessary to put his lease and bond in proper form for consideration, the superintendent shall forward such lease for disapproval.
§ 227.8
Bonds.
The provisions of § 211.6 of this chapter, or as hereafter amended, are applicable to leases under this part.
§ 227.9
Acreage limitation: Leases on noncontiguous tracts.
No person, firm, or corporation will be allowed to lease for oil and gas more than 10,240 acres in the aggregate. The land contained in the lease shall be described by legal subdivisions, and leases may be executed to cover only adjoining or contiguous subdivisions. In case a lessee is a successful bidder for two or more tracts of land which are not contiguous, separate leases shall be executed.
§ 227.10
Minerals other than oil and gas.
Unreserved, unwithdrawn, and unallotted lands which have not been leased for oil and gas under the act of August 21, 1916 (39 Stat. 519) and which are not chiefly valuable therefor, are subject to mineral application or mineral entry, for minerals other than oil and gas, under the supervision of the Bureau of Land Management.
§ 227.11
Bureau of Land Management to be furnished copy of lease.
The Bureau of Land Management shall be furnished with a copy of each lease signed by the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 227.12
Mineral reserves in nonmineral entries.
Where lands have been leased under authority of said act of August 21, 1916 (39 Stat. 519), and nonmineral entry is subsequently lawfully made for such lands with a view to obtaining a restricted patent therefor, all such subsequently allowed nonmineral entries shall be with the mineral reservation prescribed by the act of July 17, 1914 (38 Stat. 509).
§ 227.13
Vested rights to be respected.
All drilling and other oil and natural gas developments and mining operations, work, and improvements, and all other acts and things necessary to be done, in connection with the exploration for mining and production of oil and natural gas from the leased premises, under the terms and conditions of a lease shall be performed with due regard to the rights, statutory and otherwise, of others, if any, who may have or who may acquire a lawful claim or estate to the leased premises, separate and distinct from the oil and gas or other mineral therein contained. See act of July 17, 1914 (38 Stat. 509).
§ 227.14
Government reserves right to purchase oil and gas.
In time of war or other public emergency any of the executive departments of the United States Government shall have the option to purchase at the posted market price on the date of sale all or any part of the minerals produced under any lease.

# Rents and Royalties
§ 227.15
Manner of payment.
All payments due the lessor shall be made to the superintendent for the benefit of the Shoshone Indian Tribe, in accordance with the act of August 21, 1916 (39 Stat. 519), and no credit will be given any lessee for payments made otherwise. Payments of rentals and royalties except the first year's rental, which shall be paid to the superintendent as prescribed in § 227.4 shall be transmitted to the superintendent through the supervisor. All such payments shall be accompanied by a statement, in triplicate, by the lessee, showing the specific items of royalty or rental that the remittance is intended to cover, and payment of royalties on production shall be made not later than the last day of the calendar month following the production for which such payment is to be made.
§ 227.16
Crediting advance annual payments.
In the event of discovery of minerals in paying quantities all advance rents and advance royalties shall be allowed as credit on stipulated royalties as they accrue for the year for which such advance payments have been made. No refund of any such advance payment made under any lease will be allowed in the event the royalty on production for the year is not sufficient to equal such advance payment; nor will any part of the moneys so paid be refunded to the lessee because of any subsequent surrender or cancellation of the lease.
§ 227.17
Rates of rents and royalties.
(a) The lessee shall pay, beginning with the date of execution of leases by the Secretary of the Interior, a rental of $1.25 per acre per annum in advance during the continuance thereof, together with a royalty of 12
1/2
percent of the value or amount of all oil, gas, and/or natural gasoline, and/or all other hydrocarbon substances produced and saved from the land leased, save and except oil and/or gas used by the lessee for development and operation purposes on the lease, which oil or gas shall be royalty free. A higher rate of royalty may be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative, prior to the advertisement of land for oil and gas leases. During the period of supervision, “value” for the purposes of the lease may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, be calculated on the basis of the highest price paid or offered (whether calculated on the basis of short or actual volume) at the time of production for the major portion of the oil of the same gravity, and gas, and/or natural gasoline, and/or all other hydrocarbon substances produced and sold from the field where the leased lands are situated, and the actual volume of the marketable product less the content of foreign substances as determined by the supervisor. The actual amount realized by the lessee from the sale of said products may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, be deemed mere evidence of or conclusive evidence of such value. When paid in value, such royalties shall be due and payable monthly at such time as the lease provides; when royalty on oil produced is paid in kind, such royalty oil shall be delivered in tanks provided by the lessee on the premises where produced without cost to the lessor unless otherwise agreed to by the parties thereto, at such time as may be required by the lessor. The lessee shall not be required to hold such royalty oil in storage longer than 30 days after the end of the calendar month in which said oil is produced. The lessee shall be in no manner responsible or held liable for loss or destruction of such oil by causes beyond his control.
(b) The proceeds from all leases shall be taken up in the accounts of the superintendent for appropriate deposit for the benefit of the Indians.
§ 227.18
Free use of gas by lessor.
If the leased premises produce gas in excess of the lessee's requirements for the development and operation of said premises, then the lessor may use sufficient gas, free of charge, for any desired school or other buildings belonging to the tribe, by making his own connections to a regulator installed, connected to the well and maintained by the lessee, and the lessee shall not be required to pay royalty on gas so used. The use of such gas shall be at the lessor's risk at all times.
§ 227.19
Division orders.
(a) Lessees may make arrangements with the purchasers of oil for the payment of the royalties on production to the superintendent by such purchasers, but such arrangements, if made, shall not operate to relieve a lessee from responsibility should the purchaser fail or refuse to pay such royalties when due. Where lessees avail themselves of this privilege, division orders permitting the pipeline companies or other purchasers of the oil to withhold the royalty interest shall be executed and forwarded to the supervisor for approval, as pipeline companies are not permitted to accept or run oil from leased Indian lands until after the approval of a division order showing that the lessee has a lease regularly approved and in effect. When the lessee company runs its own oil, it shall execute an intracompany division order and forward it to the supervisor for his consideration. The right is reserved for the supervisor to cancel a division order at any time or require the pipeline company to discontinue to run the oil of any lessee who fails to operate the lease properly or otherwise violates the provisions of the lease, of the regulations in this part, or of the operating regulations.
(b) When oil is taken by authority of a division order, the lessee or his representatives shall be actually present when the oil is gaged and records are made of the temperature, gravity and impurities. The lessee will be held responsible for the correctness and the correct recording and reporting of all the foregoing measurements, which except lowest gage, shall be made at the time the oil is turned into the pipeline. Failure of the lessee to perform properly these duties will subject the division order to revocation.

# Cross Reference:
For oil and gas operating regulations of the Geological Survey, see 30 CFR part 221.

# Operations
§ 227.20
Permission to start operations.
(a) No operations will be permitted on any lease before it is executed by the Secretary of the Interior.
(b) Written permission must be secured from the supervisor or his representative before any operations are started on the leased premises. After such permission is secured the operations must be in accordance with the operating regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior. Copies of the regulations in this part may be secured from either the supervisor or the superintendent, and no operations should be attempted without a study of the operating regulations.
§ 227.21
Restrictions on operations.
(a) All leases issued under the provisions of the regulations in this part shall be subject to imposition by the Secretary of the Interior of such restrictions as to time or times for the drilling of wells and as to the production from any well or wells as in his judgment may be necessary or proper for the protection of the natural resources of the leased land and in the interest of the lessor. In the exercise of his judgment the Secretary of the Interior may take into consideration, among other things, the Federal laws, State laws, regulations by competent Federal or State authorities, lawful agreements among operators regulating either drilling or production, or both, and any regulatory action desired by tribal authorities.
(b) All leases issued pursuant to the regulations in this part shall be subject to a co-operative or unit development plan affecting the leased lands if and when required by the Secretary of the Interior, but no lease shall participate in any cooperative or unit plan without prior approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 227.22
Diligence and prevention of waste.
The lessee shall exercise diligence in drilling and operating wells for oil and gas on the leased lands while such products can be secured in paying quantities; carry on all operations in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with approved methods and practice, having due regard for the prevention of waste of oil or gas developed on the land, or the entrance of water through wells drilled by the lessee to
the productive sands or oil or gas-bearing strata to the destruction or injury of the oil or gas deposits, the preservation and conservation of the property for future productive operations, and to the health and safety of workmen and employees; plug securely all wells before abandoning the same and to shut off effectually all water from the oil or gas-bearing strata; not drill any well within 200 feet of any house or barn on the premises without the lessor's written consent; carry out at his expense all reasonable orders and requirements of the supervisor relative to prevention of waste, and preservation of the property and the health and safety of workmen; bury all pipelines crossing tillable lands below plow depth unless other arrangements therefor are made with the superintendent; pay all damages to crops, buildings, and other improvements on the premises occasioned by the lessee's operations:
Provided,
That the lessee shall not be held responsible for delays or casualties occasioned by causes beyond his control.
§ 227.23
Wells.
The lessee shall agree (a) to drill and produce all wells necessary to offset or protect the leased land from drainage by wells on adjoining lands not the property of the lessor, or in lieu thereof, compensate the lessor in full each month for the estimated loss of royalty through drainage:
Provided,
That during the period of supervision by the Secretary of the Interior, the necessity for offset wells shall be determined by the supervisor and payment in lieu of drilling and producing shall be with the consent of, and in an amount determined by the Secretary of the Interior; (b) at the election of the lessee to drill and produce other wells:
Provided,
That the right to drill and produce such other wells shall be subject to any system of well spacing or production allotments authorized and approved under the applicable law or regulations, approved by the Secretary of the Interior and affecting the field or area in which the leased lands are situated; and (c) if the lessee elects not to drill and produce such other wells for any period the Secretary of the Interior may, within 10 days after due notice in writing, either require the drilling and production of such wells to the number necessary, in his opinion, to insure reasonable diligence in the development and operation of the property, or may in lieu of such additional diligent drilling and production require the payment on and after the first anniversary date of the lease of not to exceed $1 per acre per annum, which sum shall be in addition to any rental or royalty herein specified.
§ 227.24
Penalties.
Failure of the lessee to comply with any provisions of the lease, of the operating regulations, of the regulations in this part, orders of the superintendent or his representative, or of the orders of the supervisor or his representative, shall subject the lessee to a penalty of not more than $1,617 per day for each day the terms of the lease, the regulations, or such orders are violated:
Provided,
That the lessee shall be entitled to notice, and hearing within 30 days after such notice, with respect to the terms of the lease, regulations, or orders violated, which hearing shall be held by the supervisor, whose findings shall be conclusive unless an appeal be taken to the Secretary of the Interior within 30 days after notice of the supervisor's decision, and the decision of the Secretary of the Interior upon appeal shall be conclusive.
[22 FR 10622, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 81 FR 42481, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7653, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15101, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 227.25
Inspection of premises, books and accounts.
Lessee shall agree to allow the lessor and his agents or any authorized representative of the Interior Department to enter, from time to time, upon and into all parts of the leased premises for the purposes of inspection and shall further agree to keep a full and correct account of all operations and make reports thereof, as required by the applicable regulations of the Department; and their books and records, showing manner of operations and persons interested, shall be open at all times for
examination of such officers of the Department as shall be instructed in writing by the Secretary of the Interior or authorized by regulations, to make such examination.
§ 227.26
Assignments and overriding royalties.
(a) Leases, or any interest therein, may be assigned or transferred only with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and to procure such approval the assignee must be qualified to hold such lease under existing rules and regulations, and shall furnish a satisfactory bond for the faithful performance of the covenants and conditions thereof. No lease or any interest therein, or the use of such lease, shall be assigned, sublet, or transferred directly or indirectly, by working or drilling contract, or otherwise without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior. Assignments of leases shall be filed with the superintendent within 20 days after the date of execution.
(b) An agreement creating overriding royalties or payments out of production under this part shall be subject to the provisions of § 211.26(d) of this chapter, or as hereafter amended.
[22 FR 10622, Dec. 24, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 9759, Dec. 18, 1958. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 227.27
Stipulations.
The lessee under any lease heretofore executed may be stipulation (Form 5-154i), with the consent of the lessor, make such lease subject to all the terms, conditions, and provisions contained in the lease form currently in use. Stipulations shall be filed with the superintendent within 20 days after the date of execution.
§ 227.28
Cancellations.
Leases shall be irrevocable except for breach of the terms and conditions of the same and may be forfeited and cancelled by an appropriate proceeding in the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming whenever the lessee fails to comply with their terms and conditions; the lessee may, on approval of the Secretary of the Interior, surrender a lease or any part of it:
(a) That he make application for cancellation to the superintendent having jurisdiction over the land.
(b) That he pay a surrender fee of $1 at the time the application is made.
(c) That he pay all royalties and rentals due to the date of such application.
(d) That he make a satisfactory showing that full provision has been made for conservation and protection of the property and that all wells, drilled on the portion of the lease surrendered, have been properly abandoned.
(e) If the lease has been recorded, that he file, with his application, a recorded release of the acreage covered by the application.
(f) If the application is for the cancellation of the entire lease or the entire undivided portion, that he surrender the lease:
Provided,
That where the application is made by an assignee to whom no copy of the lease was delivered, he will be required to surrender only his copy of the assignment.
(g) If the lease (or portion being surrendered or canceled) is owned in undivided interests by more than one party, then all parties shall join in the application for cancellation.
(h) That all required fees and papers must be in the mail or received on or before the date upon which rents and royalties become due, in order for the lessee and his surety to be relieved from liability for the payment of such royalties and rentals.
(i) In the event oil or gas is being drained from the leased premises by wells not covered by the lease; the lease, or any part of it may be surrendered, only on such terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may determine to be reasonable and equitable.
§ 227.29
Fees.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative, each lease, sublease, or assignment shall be accompanied at the time of filing by a fee of $10.
(Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 415, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 413)
[24 FR 7949, Oct. 2, 1959. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 227.30
Forms.
The provisions of § 211.30 of this chapter, or as hereafter amended are applicable to this part.
[24 FR 7949, Oct. 2, 1959. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]

# SUBCHAPTER J—FISH AND WILDLIFE
Pt. 241

# PART 241—INDIAN FISHING IN ALASKA
Sec.
241.1
Purpose.
241.2
Annette Islands Reserve; definition; exclusive fishery; licenses.
241.3
Commercial fishing, Annette Islands Reserve.
241.4
Subsistence and sport fishing, Annette Islands Reserve.
241.5
Commercial fishing, Karluk Indian Reservation.
241.6
Enforcement; violation of regulations; corrective action; penalties; closure of restrictions, Annette Islands Reserve.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2, 9; 43 U.S.C. 1457; sec. 15, 26 Stat. 1101, 48 U.S.C. 358; Presidential Proclamation, Apr. 28, 1916, 39 Stat. 1777; sec. 2, 49 Stat. 1250, 48 U.S.C. 358a; sec. 4, 72 Stat. 339, as amended 73 Stat. 141.

# Source:
28 FR 7183, July 12, 1963, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 241.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in this part is to regulate all fishing within the Annette Islands Reserve and to regulate Indian and other native commercial fishing in the Karluk Indian Reservation, but they shall not be construed to limit any rights of Indians or other natives of Alaska not specifically covered hereby.
§ 241.2
Annette Islands Reserve; definition; exclusive fishery; licenses.
(a)
Definition.
The Annette Islands Reserve is defined as the Annette Islands in Alaska, as set apart as a reservation by section 15 of the Act of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 1101, 48 U.S.C. sec. 358), and including the area identified in the Presidential Proclamation of April 28, 1916 (39 Stat. 1777), as the waters within three thousand feet from the shore lines at mean low tide of Annette Island, Ham Island, Walker Island, Lewis Island, Spire Island, Hemlock Island, and adjacent rocks and islets, located within the broken line upon the diagram attached to and made a part of said Proclamation; and also the bays of said islands, rocks, and islets.
(b)
Exclusive fishery.
The Annette Islands Reserve is declared to be exclusively reserved for fishing by the members of the Metlakatla Indian Community and such other Alaskan Natives as have joined or may join them in residence on the aforementioned islands, and any other person fishing therein without authority or permission of the Metlakatla Indian Community shall be subject to prosecution under the provisions of section 2 of the Act of July 2, 1960 (74 Stat. 469, 18 U.S.C. sec. 1165).
(c)
Licenses.
Members of the Metlakatla Indian Community, and such other Alaskan Natives as have joined them or may join them in residence on the aforementioned islands, shall not be required to obtain a license or permit from the State of Alaska to engage in fishing in the waters of the Annette Islands Reserve.
§ 241.3
Commercial fishing, Annette Islands Reserve.
(a)
Definition.
Commercial fishing is the taking, fishing for, or possession of fish, shellfish, or other fishery resources with the intent of disposing of such fish, shellfish, or other fishery resources or parts thereof for profit, or by sale, barter, trade, or in commercial channels.
(b)
Trap fishing sites; number and location.
During 1963, and until the Secretary of the Interior or his duly authorized representative determines otherwise, the Metlakatla Indian Community is permitted to operate not more than one trap per site for salmon fishing at any four of the following sites in the Annette Islands Reserve, Alaska:
(1) Annette Island at 55 degrees 15 minutes 09 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 36 minutes 00 seconds west longitude.
(2) Annette Island at 55 degrees 12 minutes 52 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 36 minutes 10 seconds west longitude.
(3) Annette Island at 55 degrees 02 minutes 47 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 38 minutes 53 seconds west longitude.
(4) Annette Island at 55 degrees 05 minutes 41 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 36 minutes 39 seconds west longitude.
(5) Annette Island at 55 degrees 01 minute 54 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 38 minutes 36 seconds west longitude.
(6) Annette Island at 55 degrees 00 minutes 45 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 38 minutes 30 seconds west longitude.
(7) Annette Island at 54 degrees 59 minutes 41 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 36 minutes 48 seconds west longitude.
(8) Ham Island at 55 degrees 10 minutes 13 seconds north latitude, 131 degrees 19 minutes 31 seconds west longitude.
(c)
Trap fishing season.
Fishing for salmon with traps operated by the Metlakatla Indian Community is permitted only at such times as commercial salmon fishing with purse seines is permitted by order or regulation of the Alaska Board of Fish and Game for Commercial Fishing in any part of the following area: from the point at which meridian 132°17′30″, thence due east along said parallel to longitude 130°49′15″, then due south along said meridian to the point at which it intersects with the United States-Canadian boundary, thence due west along said boundary to the point of beginning, provided, however, that the Secretary or his duly authorized representative may upon request by the Metlakatla Indian Community, authorize fishing for salmon with traps, at such other times as he shall prescribe, which authorization shall be based upon the following criteria:
(1) Number of fish required for spawning escapement and any other requirements reasonable and necessary for conservation;
(2) Fair and equitable sharing of the salmon resource with other user groups fishing in State waters under State law and within the State fisheries management system; and
(3) The federal purpose in the establishment and maintenance of the Metlakatla Indian Reservation.
(d)
Size, construction and closure of fish traps
—(1)
Size.
When any part of a trap is in a greater depth of water than 100 feet, the trap as measured from shore at mean high tide to the outer face of the pot shall not extend beyond 900 feet.
(2)
Construction.
Poles shall be permanently secured to the webbing at each side of the mouth of the pot tunnel and shall extend from the tunnel floor to a height at least four feet above the water. A draw line shall be reeved through the lower end of both poles and the upper end of one.
(3)
Method of closing.
The tunnel walls shall be overlapped as far as possible across the pot gap and the draw line shall be pulled tight and both secured so as to completely close the tunnel. In addition, 25 feet of the webbing of the heart on each side next to the pot shall be lifted or lowered in such manner as to permit the free passage of fish.
(e)
Other forms of commercial fishing.
All commercial fishing, other than with traps, shall be in accordance with the season and gear restrictions established by rule or regulation by the Alaska Board of Fish and Game for Commercial Fishing in any part of the previously defined area; provided, however, that the Secretary or his duly authorized representative may, upon request by the Metlakatla Indian Community authorize such other commercial fishing at such times as he shall prescribe, which authorization shall be based upon the following criteria:
(1) Number of fish required for spawning escapement and any other requirements reasonable and necessary for conservation;
(2) Fair and equitable sharing of the fishery resource with other user groups fishing in State waters under State law and within the State fisheries management system; and
(3) The Federal purpose in the establishment and maintenance of the Metlakatla Indian Reservation.
[28 FR 7183, July 12, 1963; 28 FR 12273, Nov. 20, 1963, as amended at 40 FR 24184, June 5, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 241.4
Subsistence and sport fishing, Annette Islands Reserve.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Subsistence fishing is the taking or attempting to take any species of fish or shellfish for purposes other than sale or barter, except
as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Sport fishing is the taking or attempting to take for personal use, and not for sale or barter, any fresh water, marine, or anadromous fish by hook and line or by such means as defined by regulation or statute of the State of Alaska.
(b)
Restrictions.
Subsistence fishing within the Annette Islands Reserve shall be in accordance with the season, gear and bag restrictions established by rule or regulation of the Alaska Board of Fish and Game for Commercial Fishing in Fishing District No. 1. Sport fishing within the Annette Islands Reserve shall be in accordance with the season, gear and bag restrictions established by rule or regulation for Southeastern Alaska by the Alaska Board of Fish and Game. Both subsistence and sport fishing shall also be in accordance with such ordinances as may be adopted by the Council of the Metlakatla Indian Community and approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 241.5
Commercial fishing, Karluk Indian Reservation.
(a)
Definition.
The Karluk Indian Reservation includes all waters extending 3,000 feet from the shore at mean low tide on Kodiak Island beginning at the end of a point of land on the shore of Shelikof Strait about 1
1/4
miles east of Rocky Point and in approximate latitude 57 degrees 39 minutes 40 seconds N., longitude 154 degrees 12 minutes 20 seconds W.; thence south approximately 8 miles to latitude 57 degrees 32 minutes 30 seconds N.; thence west approximately 12
1/2
miles to the confluence of the north shore of Sturgeon River with the east shore of Shelikof Strait; thence northeasterly following the easterly shore of Shelikof Strait to the place of beginning, containing approximately 35,200 acres.
(b)
Who may fish; licenses.
The waters of the Karluk Indian Reservation shall be open to commercial fishing by bona fide native inhabitants of the native village of Karluk and vicinity, and to other persons insofar as the fishing activities of the latter do not restrict or interfere with fishing by such natives. Such natives shall not be required to obtain a license to engage in commercial fishing in the waters of the Karluk Indian Reservation.
(c)
Salmon fishing; restrictions.
Commercial fishing for salmon by native inhabitants of the native village of Karluk and vicinity in the waters of the Karluk Indian Reservation shall be in accordance with the seasonal and gear restrictions of the rules and regulations of the Alaska Board of Fish and Game for Commercial Fishing in the fishing district embracing the Karluk Indian Reservation except that:
(1) Beach seines up to 250 fathoms in length may be used northeast of Cape Karluk; and
(2) Prior to July 1, fishing shall be permitted to within 100 yards of the Karluk River where it breaks through the Karluk Spit into Shelikof Strait.
§ 241.6
Enforcement; violation of regulations; corrective action; penalties; closure of restrictions, Annette Islands Reserve.
(a)
Enforcement.
The regulations in this part shall be enforced by any duly authorized representative of the Secretary of the Interior. Any fish trap, vessel, gear, processing establishment or other operation or equipment subject to the regulations of this part shall be available for inspection at all times by such representative.
(b)
Violation of regulations.
Whenever any duly authorized enforcement representative of the Secretary of the Interior has reasonable cause to believe any violation of the regulations of this part relating to fish traps has occurred, he shall direct immediate closure of the trap involved and shall affix an appropriate seal thereto to prevent further fishing. The matter shall be reported without delay to the Area Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, who shall thereupon report and recommend to the Secretary of the Interior appropriate corrective action.
(c)
Corrective action.
Any violation of the regulations of this part relating to fish traps shall be ground for the temporary or permanent closure, as the Secretary of the Interior may determine, of any or all traps authorized by § 241.3(a), or the withdrawal and rescission of the right to fish for salmon with traps at any or all sites authorized thereby.
(d)
Penalties.
Any person who violates any of the regulations of this part shall be subject to prosecution under section 2 of the Act of July 12, 1960 (74 Stat. 469, 18 U.S.C. sec. 1165), which provides as follows:
Whoever, without lawful authority or permission, willfully and knowingly goes upon any land that belongs to any Indian or Indian tribe, band, or group and either are held by the United States in trust or are subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, or upon any lands of the United States that are reserved for Indian use, for the purpose of hunting, trapping, or fishing thereon, or for the removal of game, peltries, or fish therefrom, shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than ninety days, or both, and all game, fish, and peltries in his possession shall be forfeited.
(e)
Closure or restriction, Annette Islands Reserve.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, after consultation with officials of the Metlakatla Indian Community, is authorized and directed, upon a determination of the necessity to promote sound conversation practices, to restrict or close to commercial, subsistence or sport fishing any portion of the Annette Islands Reserve by notice given appropriate local publicity.
[28 FR 7183, July 12, 1963, as amended at 30 FR 5742, Apr. 23, 1965. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
Pt. 242

# PART 242—COMMERCIAL FISHING ON RED LAKE INDIAN RESERVATION
Sec.
242.1
Definitions.
242.2
Authority to engage in commercial fishing.
242.3
Authority to operate.
242.4
Fishing.
242.5
Disposition of unmarketable fish.
242.6
Spawning season.
242.7
Suspension.
242.8
Penalty.
242.9
Quotas.
242.10
Fishing equipment limitations.
242.11
Royalty.
242.12
Authority to lease.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2; 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
25 FR 7784, Aug. 16, 1960, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 242.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative.
(b) “Council” means the General Council of the Red Lake Band of the Chippewa Indians as recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.
(c) “Association” means the Red Lake Fisheries Association, incorporated under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and whose articles of incorporation and bylaws and any amendments thereto have been approved by the Council and the Secretary of the Interior.
(d) “Member of Association” means as defined in the Association by-laws.
(e) “Commercial fishing” means the catching of any fish for sale directly or indirectly to others than Indians on the reservations or licensed traders on the reservation for resale to Indians.
§ 242.2
Authority to engage in commercial fishing.
No person shall engage in commercial fishing in the waters of the Red Lakes on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in the State of Minnesota except the Red Lake Fisheries Association, a corporation organized and incorporated under the laws of Minnesota, and its members, and then only in accordance with the regulations in this part. The authority hereby granted to the Association and its members to engage in commercial fishing may, at any time, be canceled and withdrawn and these regulations may be modified and amended.
§ 242.3
Authority to operate.
The association may conduct commercial fishing operations on the reservation under authority of its articles of incorporation and by-laws only in accordance with the regulations in this part.
§ 242.4
Fishing.
(a) Enrolled members of the Red Lake Band of Chippewa Indians may take fish at any time except as prohibited by § 242.6 from waters of the Red Lakes on the Red Lake Indian Reservation for their own use and for sale to:
(1) Other Indians on the reservation and
(2) Licensed traders on the reservation for resale to Indians.
(b) Fish may be taken for commercial purposes only by the Association through members of the Association in residence on the reservation during the fishing season which shall be May 15 to November 15 inclusive. All fish taken for such purposes shall be marketed through the Association.
(c) In connection with commercial fishing, Association members fishermen may be assisted only by Indians who are members of the Red Lake Band.
§ 242.5
Disposition of unmarketable fish.
All unmarketable live fish taken under authority of these regulations must be returned to the water, and all unmarketable dead fish taken must be buried by the person taking the same.
§ 242.6
Spawning season.
Walleye and northern pike (or pickerel) shall not be taken during their spawning season except for propagation purposes.
§ 242.7
Suspension.
All commercial fishing operations may be suspended by order of the Secretary at any time.
§ 242.8
Penalty.
Any Indian violating the provisions of §§ 242.4 and 242.6 shall forfeit his right to take fish for any purpose for a period of three months.
§ 242.9
Quotas.
The Secretary may set such commercial quotas as he may find desirable, based on available biological and other information, on the amount of fish which may be taken under authority of the regulations in this part in any one season. Until otherwise determined by the Secretary, not more than 650,000 pounds of walleyes may be taken in any one fishing season.
§ 242.10
Fishing equipment limitations.
(a) Any variety of fish may be taken by enrolled members of the Band from any waters on the reservation by hook and line, and from Upper and Lower Red Lakes by gill net or entrapment gear for noncommercial use only.
(b) For commercial fishing each member of the Association shall be limited to eight gill nets of 300 feet in length and six feet in depth, of which not to exceed six of such nets may be of nylon and other synthetic material.
(c) Gill nets for taking pike shall have a mesh of not less that 3
1/2
inches extension measure.
(d) Gill nets for taking whitefish shall have a mesh of not less than 5
1/2
inches extension measure.
(e) Entrapment gear may only be used by members of the Association for taking fish of any variety for commercial purposes or propagation, in accordance with such specifications and directions as the manager of the Association may provide.
(f) All nets used in Red Lake Reservation waters must be marked with appropriate tags to be furnished by the Association.
§ 242.11
Royalty.
The Association shall pay five percent of the gross receipts from the sale of fish by the Association to the designated collection officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which shall be deposited to the credit of the Band in the Treasury of the United States.
§ 242.12
Authority to lease.
The Band, with the approval of the Secretary, may execute a lease or permit on its fisheries plant and hatchery at Redby, Minnesota, to the Association.
Pt. 243

# PART 243—REINDEER IN ALASKA
Sec.
243.1
What is the purpose of this part?
243.2
What terms do I need to know?
243.3
Delegation of authority.
243.4
Who can own or possess Alaskan reindeer?
243.5
Who can own imported reindeer, and what limitations apply?
243.6
Which sales or transfers of Alaskan reindeer do not require a permit?
243.7
How can a non-Native acquire live reindeer?
243.8
What penalties apply to violations of this part?
243.9
Who may inherit live Alaskan reindeer and by what means?
243.10
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this rule?
243.11
Are transfers of Alaskan reindeer that occurred before issuance of this part valid?
243.12
Are Alaska reindeer trust assets maintained by the U.S. Government for the benefit of Alaska Natives?
243.13
Who may appeal an action under this part?

# Authority:
Sec. 12, 50 Stat. 902; 25 U.S.C. 500K; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
71 FR 2429, Jan. 13, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 243.1
What is the purpose of this part?
The Department's policy is to encourage and develop the activity and responsibility of Alaska Natives in all branches of the reindeer industry and business in Alaska, and to preserve the Native character of that industry and business. This part contains requirements governing acquisition and transferring reindeer and reindeer products in Alaska.
§ 243.2
What terms do I need to know?
Act
means the Reindeer Act of September 1, 1937 (50 Stat. 900; 25 U.S.C. 500
et seq.
), as amended.
Alaska Native
means Eskimos, Indians, and Aleuts inhabiting Alaska at the time of the Treaty of Cession of Alaska to the United States and their descendants currently living in Alaska.
Alaskan reindeer
means:
(1) All reindeer descended from those present in Alaska at the time of passage of the Act; and
(2) Any caribou introduced into animal husbandry or that has joined a reindeer herd.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior.
Designee
means the person assigned by the Alaska Regional Director to administer the reindeer program.
Imported reindeer
means reindeer brought into Alaska from any region outside of Alaska since passage of the Act.
Native reindeer organization
means any corporation, association, or other organization, whether incorporated or not, composed solely of Alaska Natives, for the purpose of engaging in or promoting the reindeer industry.
Non-Native
means a person who is not an Alaska Native.
Regional Director
means the officer in charge of the Alaska Regional Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Reindeer products
mean the meat, hide, antlers, or any other products derived from reindeer.
Transfer
means the conveyance of ownership of reindeer or reindeer products, or any interest in them or interest in an Alaska Native reindeer organization, by any method.
We, us
and
our
mean the Regional Director or the Director's designee.
§ 243.3
Delegation of authority.
The Secretary of the Interior has delegated authority under the Act through the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs to the Alaska Regional Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. All claims of ownership of reindeer in Alaska, as required by the Act (section 500b), must be filed with the Regional Director or the Director's designee.
§ 243.4
Who can own or possess Alaskan reindeer?
(a) Only Alaska Natives, organizations of Alaska Natives, or the United States for the benefit of these Natives, can own Alaskan reindeer in Alaska.
(1) Any transfer not allowed by this part is not legal, and does not confer ownership or the right to keep Alaskan reindeer, reindeer products, or any interest in them.
(2) Anyone violating this part will forfeit their reindeer or reindeer products to the Federal Government.
(b) An Alaska Native or a Native reindeer organization may transfer reindeer that they own to other Alaska Natives or Native reindeer organizations without restriction, except as provided in this part.
(c) We may maintain reindeer for research projects, so long as the purpose of the research benefits the Native reindeer industry. We retain title to these reindeer and will determine their eventual disposition.
(d) A non-Native manager of Alaskan reindeer must, by the last day of September each year:
(1) Provide us a copy of the contract with the Native reindeer owner; and
(2) Provide us a written report of all Alaskan reindeer kept, born, died or transferred.
(e) We may permit possession of a limited number of Alaskan reindeer by a non-Native applicant under a Special Use Permit for Public Display.
(1) We can revoke this permit for cause.
(2) The permit will not allow the permit-holder to keep a breeding herd (
i.e.
, a herd that is capable of reproduction).
(3) The permit-holder must report to us in writing by the last day of September each year on all reindeer held under this permit.
§ 243.5
Who can own imported reindeer, and what limitations apply?
(a) Anyone, including non-Natives, may own imported reindeer in Alaska for any legitimate purpose, subject to State and Federal animal health laws and regulations.
(b) Imported reindeer must not be intermingled with, or be bred to, Alaskan reindeer without our written consent. Any offspring resulting from a mating with Alaskan reindeer are considered Alaskan reindeer and a non-Native owner may not maintain these reindeer alive in Alaska.
(c) This paragraph applies if a non-Native owner of imported reindeer in Alaska contracts with a Native reindeer owner to keep and manage the imported reindeer. The non-Native owner must:
(1) Distinguish the imported reindeer from the Alaskan reindeer by applying a distinctly different permanent earmark or tattoo on all imported reindeer; and
(2) Register the earmark or tattoo with the State Division of Agriculture book of livestock brand marks.
§ 243.6
Which sales or transfers of Alaskan reindeer do not require a permit?
The following transfers do not require a permit:
(a) Sale or transfer by Alaska Natives of dead reindeer or reindeer products; and
(b) Sale of transfer of live reindeer between Alaska Natives or Native reindeer organizations.
§ 243.7
How can a non-Native acquire live reindeer?
If you are a non-Native who wants to acquire live Alaskan reindeer, you must apply to us in writing. We will either grant the request and issue a written permit valid for 90 days or reject the request and give our reasons in writing. Any transfer that we authorize is subject to the following conditions:
(a) The transfer must meet the requirements of the Act and this part.
(b) Within 30 days of transfer, you must either butcher the reindeer in Alaska or ship them out of Alaska. If you ship the reindeer out alive:
(1) You must comply with all Federal and State animal health regulations governing transfers and shipments; and
(2) The reindeer and their descendants must never be brought back to Alaska alive.
(c) Within 30 days of the transfer, you must report to us the actual number of reindeer shipped out or slaughtered.
§ 243.8
What penalties apply to violations of this part?
If you are a non-Native transferee of live Alaskan reindeer who violates the provisions of this part, you are subject to the penalties in this section.
(a) Under 25 U.S.C. 500i, you can be fined up to $7,662 if you:
(1) Take possession of reindeer without a permit issued under § 243.7; or
(2) Do not abide by the terms of a permit issued under § 243.7 (including the requirement that you slaughter or export the reindeer within 30 days and not bring them back alive into Alaska).
(b) Under 25 U.S.C. 500b, you are barred from asserting your title to the reindeer if you:
(1) Do not obtain a transfer permit from us and fully comply with its terms; or
(2) Fail to file with us a claim of title to reindeer within 30 days of acquiring them.
[71 FR 2429, Jan. 13, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 42482, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7653, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15102, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 243.9
Who may inherit live Alaskan reindeer and by what means?
(a) Privately-owned live Alaskan reindeer may pass to the deceased owner's Native heirs by descent or devise.
(b) In the event of the death of an owner of Alaskan reindeer, any direct or indirect interest by descent or devise shall be determined by the Department of Interior in a proceeding conducted in accordance with the provisions of 43 CFR part 4, subpart D. During the pendency of such a proceeding, the authority to assume control over the affected Alaskan reindeer pursuant to 43 CFR 4.270 may be exercised by the Alaska Regional Director or his designee.
(c) This paragraph applies if the final probate decree of the Department of the Interior, or the decision of any reviewing Federal court, identifies a non-Native as inheriting Alaskan reindeer. The non-Native may inherit, but must be allowed no more than 30 days from receiving the final determination of heirship to:
(1) Slaughter the reindeer;
(2) Apply for a permit to transfer the reindeer to an out-of-state transferee; or
(3) Transfer ownership of the reindeer to one or more Alaska Native family members or other Alaska Native(s).
§ 243.10
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this rule?
The actions in this rule that are covered by the Paperwork Reduction Act are cleared under OMB Control Number 1076-0047. The parts subject to this control number are 243.4(d), 243.4(e), 243.5(c), 243.7, and 243.9(c). Please note, a Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
§ 243.11
Are transfers of Alaskan reindeer that occurred before issuance of this part valid?
All transfers of live Alaskan reindeer or reindeer products that were completed before the effective date of this part are hereby ratified and confirmed. This ratification does not extend to transfers that:
(a) Were fraudulent;
(b) Were made under duress;
(c) Did not result in payment of fair compensation to the Native transferer; or
(d) Would have been prohibited under §§ 243.6 or 243.8 of this part.
§ 243.12
Are Alaska reindeer trust assets maintained by the U.S. Government for the benefit of Alaska Natives?
Only the titles to Alaskan reindeer retained for research projects, or possessed by non-Natives under Special Use Permits for Public Display, or the titles to any Alaskan reindeer which may be acquired by the Government in the future for purposes of reestablishing a reindeer loan program, are held by the United States in trust for Alaska Natives. Other Alaskan reindeer are the private property of the Alaska Native owners. However, a trust responsibility continues to exist with respect to all Alaskan reindeer, insofar as the Government remains responsible for carrying out the provisions of the Reindeer Act and these regulations, including the provisions requiring approval of transfers to non-Natives, and providing for the determination of inheritance.
§ 243.13
Who may appeal an action under this part?
Any interested party adversely affected by a decision under this part has the right of appeal as provided in 25 CFR part 2 and 43 CFR part 4, subpart D.
Pt. 247

# PART 247—USE OF COLUMBIA RIVER TREATY FISHING ACCESS SITES
Sec.
247.1
What definitions apply to this part?
247.2
What lands are subject to these regulations?
247.3
Who is eligible to use the sites?
247.4
How can eligible users be identified?
247.5
What laws and regulations apply to the people who use these sites?
247.6
What will happen if I damage Government-owned property?
247.7
Can I build a structure?
247.8
What am I responsible for if I use the facilities?
247.9
What other rules apply while I am using the facilities?
247.10
What will happen if I abandon property?
247.11
What other restrictions apply to use of the sites?
247.12
Will I have to pay to use a site?
247.13
Are the facilities available year around?
247.14
Can I hook up a campsite to on-site or off-site utilities?
247.15
May I reserve a campsite or drying shed?
247.16
What fire is permitted?
247.17
What are the restrictions on fires?
247.18
What are the sanitation prohibitions?
247.19
Can a site be used for commercial enterprises other than fishing enterprises by the tribes?
247.20
What are the road and trail prohibitions?
247.21
Can I appeal an administrative action?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2 and 9; Pub. L. 100-581, Title IV.

# Source:
62 FR 50868, Sept. 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 247.1
What definitions apply to this part?
Abandoned property
means property left at a site while the owner of the property is not actively engaged in fishing or drying or processing fish. Abandoned property may include:
(1) Vehicles;
(2) Mobile trailers;
(3) Campers;
(4) Tents;
(5) Tepees;
(6) Boats, or;
(7) Other personal property.
Archaeological Resource
means material remains of prehistoric or historic human life or activities that are of archaeological interest and are at least 50 years of age, and the physical site, location, or context in which they are found.
Area Director
means the position responsible for administration of the Portland Area of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Campfire
means fire, not within any building, motor home or trailer, which is used for cooking, personal warmth, lighting, ceremonial or aesthetic purposes.
Damage
means to injure, mutilate, deface, destroy, cut, chop, girdle, dig, excavate, kill or in any way harm or disturb.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his designee.
Sites
means Treaty Fishing Access Sites.
Treaty Fishing Access Sites
means all Federal lands acquired by the Secretary of the Army and Transferred to the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to Public Law 100-581, Title IV, November 1, 1988, to be administered to provide access to usual and accustomed fishing areas and ancillary fishing facilities.
Vehicle
means any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported, and including any motor, frame, chassis, or body of any motor vehicle, or camper shell, except devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
§ 247.2
What lands are subject to these regulations?
(a) Any treaty fishing access sites and ancillary fishing facilities.
(b) These sites and facilities are managed for the exclusive use of members of the Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon, and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Reservation.
(c) The Area Director may suspend or withdraw the privileges of use of any or all of the facilities at the sites for any violation of the regulations in this part or of any rules issued under the regulations in this part.
§ 247.3
Who is eligible to use the sites?
(a) You may use the sites for access to usual and accustomed fishing areas and ancillary fishing facilities if you are a member of the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation (Yakima), the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon (Warm Springs), the
Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (Umatilla), and the Nez Perce Tribe (Nez Perce).
(b) The general public or people fishing who do not belong to the tribes listed above cannot use these sites.
(c) Families of such Indians may camp on the sites.
(d) You may not deny access to these sites to any eligible user.
§ 247.4
How can eligible users be identified?
(a) In order to use these sites you must posses an identification card issued by your tribe identifying you as a member of that tribe.
(b) You must exhibit the identification upon request of authorized Federal, State, local or tribal officials.
§ 247.5
What laws and regulations apply to the people who use these sites?
You may use access sites only if you obey the following rules:
(a) You may not use any of the sites for any activity that is contrary to the provisions of your tribe or contrary to Federal law or regulation, or in the absence of Federal law or regulation governing health, sanitation, and safety requirements, State or U.S. Public Health Service standards.
(b) The Area Director may suspend or withdraw the privileges of use of any or all of the facilities at the sites for any violation of the regulations in this part or for any violation of any rules issued under the regulations in this part. You cannot dig in, destroy, or remove any portion of a prehistoric or historic archaeological site or artifact.
(c) Nothing contained in the regulations in this part is intended or shall be construed as limiting or affecting any treaty rights of any tribe nor as subjecting any Indian properly exercising tribal treaty rights to State fishing laws or regulations that are not compatible with those rights.
§ 247.6
What will happen if I damage Government-owned property?
If you commit any act of vandalism, depredation, destruction, theft, or misuse of the land, buildings, fences, signs, or other structures that are the property of the United States you will be subject to prosecution under applicable Federal or State law.
§ 247.7
Can I build a structure?
(a) You may not build any structures at the sites except as allowed under paragraph (d) of this section .
(b) You may use the camping facilities that have been constructed at the sites.
(c) In addition to these structures, you may camp in tents, tepees, campers, and mobile trailers. You must remove any tents, tepees, campers, temporary drying sheds, and mobile trailers from the sites at any time you are not actively engaged in fishing, drying fish, or processing fish by other means, and during the time a site is closed for maintenance.
(d) Where the Area Director has designated areas for the construction of temporary drying sheds, you may construct a temporary drying shed where space is available. You must remove any temporary drying shed you build.
(e) If you erect or maintain a structure in violation of this section, the Area Director may order it removed at any time.
(f) The Area Director:
(1) Is not required to notify you before removing the structure; and
(2) Will charge you the cost of disposing of the structure.
§ 247.8
What am I responsible for if I use the facilities?
You are responsible for:
(a) Campsites, drying sheds and other facilities during the time you occupy or use them; and
(b) Any personal property that you erect, place, or maintain on the site during the time you occupy the site, including:
(1) Tents;
(2) Tepees;
(3) Campers;
(4) Mobile trailers;
(5) Temporary drying sheds;
(6) Fishing platforms;
(7) Boats; and
(8) Other fishing equipment.
§ 247.9
What other rules apply while I am using the facilities?
(a) You cannot construct, take possession of, occupy or otherwise use any
access site or structure for residential purposes at an access site.
(b) Neither the United States nor any officer or employee thereof warrants, makes any representation, or is responsible for the safety or condition of any personal property.
§ 247.10
What will happen if I abandon property?
If you abandon property at a site, it may be removed without your consent and disposed of at your expense, if the Area Director approves.
§ 247.11
What other restrictions apply to use of the sites?
The Area Director may prescribe and post at the sites regulations covering:
(a) Camping;
(b) Picnicking;
(c) Use of alcoholic beverages;
(d) Setting or use of fires;
(e) Use of the sites for cleaning fish;
(f) Deposit of garbage, paper, cans, bottles, or rubbish of any kind; or
(g) Use of the sites for any commercial activity (including commercial purchase of fish).
§ 247.12
Will I have to pay to use a site?
No. Neither you nor any member of your family will be charged for using a site in accordance with this part.
§ 247.13
Are the facilities available year around?
(a) The Area Director may close facilities at the sites for necessary maintenance during the winter or at other times if necessary. Before closing the facilities, the Area Director will consult with delegated tribal representatives, if possible.
(b) You will still be able to access your treaty fishing rights on the Columbia River through these sites while they are closed.
(c) If any sites are closed or restricted, any affected tribe can contact the Area Director and ask that the sites be opened. The Area Director will work together with the tribes to consider these requests.
§ 247.14
Can I hook up a campsite to on-site or off-site utilities?
(a) You must share access to all on-site facilities.
(b) Because there are a limited number of faucets available, only short-term hose use is allowed to ensure that others have access to water.
(c) You may not tap into electrical lines or outlets, or have electrical power brought in from an outside source for campsite use.
§ 247.15
May I reserve a campsite or drying shed?
No. You may not reserve a campsite, drying shed, or other facility.
(a) You must use campsites, drying sheds, and other facilities on a first-come, first-served basis.
(b) You may not occupy one or more campsites solely for the purpose of reserving a site for another tribal member.
§ 247.16
What fire is permitted?
(a) You may have a fire in designated fire places, and other areas designated for fires.
(b) You may have a fire inside a drying shed in a manner that does not jeopardize the structure.
§ 247.17
What are the restrictions on fires?
(a) You cannot burn timber, trees, slash, brush or grass unless you have a permit issued by the Area Director or his designee.
(b) You cannot build a fire in an unsafe location or leave a fire without completely extinguishing it.
(c) You must control all fire and not allow it to escape.
§ 247.18
What are the sanitation prohibitions?
(a) You cannot deposit in any toilet, toilet vault, or plumbing fixture anything that could damage or interfere with the operation or maintenance of the fixture.
(b) You must dispose of all garbage, including any paper, cans, bottle, sewage, waste water or material, either by removal from the site, or by depositing it into receptacles or at places provided for such purposes.
(c) You may not bring refuse, debris, or toxic or hazardous materials to the sites for disposal.
(d) All toxic or hazardous materials must be properly removed from the sites. You may not dispose of such materials in a sewer line, tank, drain, storm drain, or on the ground.
(e) You must not place in or near the river or other water any substance that pollutes or may pollute the water.
(f) If dumping stations are not available, you must transport sewage off site.
§ 247.19
Can a site be used for commercial enterprises other than fishing enterprises by the tribes?
(a) You may operate commercial activities during commercial fishing seasons, and subsistence activities, incidental to treaty fishing on the site.
(b) You may not construct or operate other types of commercial enterprises, such as firework stands.
§ 247.20
What are the road and trail prohibitions?
(a) You cannot damage or leave in a damaged condition any road, trail, or segment thereof.
(b) You cannot block, restrict, or otherwise interfere with the use of a road, trail, or gate.
§ 247.21
Can I appeal an administrative action?
You may appeal any decision made by the Area Director under this part to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. You may appeal any decision of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with part 2 of this chapter.
Pt. 248

# PART 248—USE OF COLUMBIA RIVER INDIAN IN-LIEU FISHING SITES
Sec.
248.1
Fishing sites subject to regulation.
248.2
Persons eligible to use sites.
248.3
Identification of eligible users.
248.4
Applicability of laws and regulations.
248.5
Damage to Government-owned property.
248.6
Structures.
248.7
Liability for condition and use of structures.
248.8
Abandoned property.
248.9
Camping and use restrictions.
248.10
Appeals from administrative actions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9.

# Source:
32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 248.1
Fishing sites subject to regulation.
Use of any of the lands acquired by the Secretary of War and transferred to the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to the Act of March 2, 1945 (59 Stat. 22), as amended (hereinafter called “in lieu fishing sites” or “sites”) to replace Indian fishing grounds submerged or destroyed as a result of the construction of the Bonneville Dam shall be subject to the rules and regulations in this part. The Regional Director, Northwest Regional Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs (hereinafter called “Regional Director”), may suspend or withdraw the privileges of access to or use of any or all the sites for any violation of the regulations in this part or of any rules issued pursuant to the regulations in this part.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.2
Persons eligible to use sites.
The in-lieu fishing sites are for the benefit of the Yakima, Umatilla, and Warm Springs Indian Tribes, and such other Columbia River Indians, if any, who had treaty fishing rights at locations inundated or destroyed by Bonneville Dam, to be used in accordance with treaty rights. The use of the sites is restricted to such Indians; however, this shall not preclude the use of camping areas on the sites by the families of such Indians.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.3
Identification of eligible users.
For the purpose of identification of the persons entitled to use the sites, each eligible Indian shall, when using said sites, have in his possession an identification card issued by his tribe identifying him as a member of that tribe. The Regional Director shall issue identification cards to such other Columbia River Indians, if any, as may be eligible to use the sites. Any individual
using the sites shall exhibit the identification upon request of authorized Federal, State or local officials.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.4
Applicability of laws and regulations.
No Indian shall use any of the sites for any activity that is contrary to the provisions of any applicable law or regulation of his tribe or contrary to any applicable State or Federal law or regulation. The Regional Director may in his discretion suspend or withdraw privileges for future access to or use of the sites for violation of such laws and regulations:
Provided,
That, nothing contained in the regulations in this part is intended or shall be construed as limiting or affecting any treaty rights of any tribe nor as subjecting any Indian properly exercising tribal treaty rights to State fishing laws or regulations which are not compatible with such rights.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.5
Damage to Government-owned property.
Anyone committing any act of depredation, destruction, theft, or misuse of the land, buildings, fences, signs, or other structures which are the property of the United States shall be subject to prosecution under applicable Federal or State law.
§ 248.6
Structures.
Dwellings, camping facilities, and other structures such as fish drying facilities and fishing platforms may be erected, placed, or maintained on the sites for use in the conduct of treaty fishing and related activities. Sites must be used in a manner that conforms to the health, sanitation, and safety requirements of the State or local law, or, in the absence of appropriate State or local laws, to the health, sanitation, and safety recommendations of the U.S. Public Health Service. The privileges or right of access to or use of the sites of any individual may be suspended or withdrawn, in the discretion of the Regional Director, when such individual having violated such health, sanitation, and safety requirements repeats such violation after having been given notice to cease and desist therefrom.
[59 FR 16757, Apr. 7, 1994]
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.7
Liability for condition and use of structures.
Any private structures including drying sheds, tents, tepees, or fishing platforms erected, placed, or maintained on the sites are the sole responsibility of their owners, and all use of such structures shall be at the user's or owner's sole responsibility and risk. Neither the United States nor any officer or employee thereof warrants, makes any representation, or is responsible for the safety or condition of any such structure.
[34 FR 2248, Feb. 15, 1969. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 248.8
Abandoned property.
No vehicle, trailer, boat, or other personal property shall be abandoned on the sites. Property abandoned in violation of the regulations in this part may be removed without prior notice to the owner and may be disposed of at the owner's expense as determined by the Regional Director.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.9
Camping and use restrictions.
All camping, picnicking, use of alcoholic beverages, setting or use of fires, use of the sites for cleaning of fish, the deposit of any garbage, paper, cans, bottles, or rubbish of any kind, or use of the sites for any commercial activity (including commercial purchase of fish) shall be subject to such prohibitions, restrictions, or other regulations as the Regional Director may prescribe and cause to be posted on the site or sites to which said regulations are applicable; provided that no fee may be charged to any Indian or member of his family for any such use.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
§ 248.10
Appeals from administrative actions.
Any decision made by the Regional Director under this part shall be subject to appeal to the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, and any decision of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs on such an appeal may be appealed to the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with part 2 of this chapter.
[32 FR 3945, Mar. 10, 1967, as amended at 85 FR 73193, Nov. 17, 2020]
Pt. 249

# PART 249—OFF-RESERVATION TREATY FISHING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
249.1
Purpose.
249.2
Area regulations.
249.3
Identification cards.
249.4
Identification of fishing equipment.
249.5
Use of unauthorized helpers or agents.
249.6
Enforcement and penalties.
249.7
Savings provisions.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2, and 9; 5 U.S.C. 301; and Sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
32 FR 10434, July 15, 1967, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 249.1
Purpose.
(a) The purposes of these regulations (part 249) are:
(1) To assist in protecting the off-reservation nonexclusive fishing rights which are secured to certain Indian tribes by their treaties with the United States;
(2) To promote the proper management, conservation and protection of fisheries resources which are subject to such treaties of the United States;
(3) To provide for determination of restrictions on the manner of exercising nonexclusive fishing privileges under rights secured to Indian tribes by such treaties of the United States necessary for conservation of the fisheries resources;
(4) To assist in the orderly administration of Indian Affairs;
(5) To encourage consultation and cooperation between the states and Indian tribes in the management and improvement of fisheries resources affected by such treaties;
(6) To assist the states in enforcing their laws and regulations for the management and conservation of fisheries resources in a manner compatible with the treaties of the United States which are applicable to such resources.
(b) The conservation regulations of this part 249 are found to be necessary to assure that the nonexclusive rights secured to certain Indian tribes by treaties of the United States to fish at usual and accustomed places outside the boundaries of an Indian reservation shall be protected and preserved for the benefit of present and future members of such tribes in a manner consistent with the nonexclusive character of such rights. Any exercise of an Indian off-reservation treaty fishing right shall be in accordance with this part and any applicable area regulations issued hereunder.
[32 FR 10434, July 15, 1967. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982; 48 FR 13414, Mar. 31, 1983]
§ 249.2
Area regulations.
(a) The Secretary of the Interior may upon request of an Indian tribe, request of a State Governor, or upon his own motion, and upon finding that Federal regulation of Indian fishing in any waters in which Indians have a treaty-secured nonexclusive fishing right is necessary to assure the conservation and wise utilization of the fishery resources for the present and future use and enjoyment of the Indians and other persons entitled thereto, promulgate regulations to govern the exercise of such treaty-secured fishing right in such waters for the purpose of preventing, in conjunction with appropriate State conservation laws and regulations governing fishing by persons not fishing under treaty rights, the deterioration of the fishery resources.
(b) In formulating such regulations the Secretary of the Interior may incorporate such State laws or regulations, or such tribal regulations as have been approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as he finds to be consistent with the Indians' rights under the Treaty and the conservation of the fishery resources.
(c) Before promulgating such regulations the Secretary of the Interior will seek the views of the affected Indian tribes, of the fish or game management agency or agencies of any affected State, and of other interested persons. Except in emergencies where the Secretary finds that the exigencies require the promulgation of regulations to be effective immediately, a notice of proposed rule making will be published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553 to afford an opportunity to submit comments and information, at such times and in such manner as may be specified in the notice. In the event of the emergency promulgation of regulations, interested persons will be afforded, as soon as possible, an opportunity to request amendment or revocation thereof.
(d) Any regulations issued pursuant to this section shall contain provisions for invoking emergency closures or restrictions or the relaxation thereof at the field level when necessary or appropriate to meet conditions not foreseeable at the time the regulations were issued.
(e) Regulations issued pursuant to this § 249.2 may include such requirements for recording and reporting catch statistics as the appropriate state fish and game agencies or the Secretary of the Interior deem necessary for effective fishery management.
§ 249.3
Identification cards.
(a) The Commissioner of Indian Affairs shall arrange for the issuance of an appropriate identification card to any Indian entitled thereto as prima facie evidence that the authorized holder thereof is entitled to exercise the fishing rights secured by the treaty designated thereon. The Commissioner may cause a federal card to be issued for this purpose or may authorize the issuance of cards by proper tribal authorities:
Provided,
That any such tribal cards shall be countersigned by an authorized officer of the Bureau of Indian Affairs certifying that the person named on the card is a member of the tribe issuing such card and that said tribe is recognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs as having fishing rights under the treaty specified on such card. Copies of the form of any identification card authorized pursuant to this section and a list of the authorized Bureau of Indian Affairs issuing or countersigning officials shall be furnished to the fisheries management and enforcement agencies of any State in which such fishing rights may be exercised.
(b) No such card shall be issued to any Indian who is not on the official membership roll of the tribe which has been approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
Provided,
That until further notice, a temporary card may be issued to any member of a tribe not having an approved current membership roll who submits evidence of his/her entitlement thereto satisfactory to the issuing officer and, in the case of a tribally issued card, to the countersigning officer. Any Indian claiming to have been wrongfully denied a card may appeal the decision in accordance with part 2 of this chapter.
(c) No person shall be issued an identification card on the basis of membership in more than one tribe at any one time.
(d) Each card shall state the name, address, tribal affiliation and enrollment number (if any) of the holder, identify the treaty under which the holder is entitled to fishing rights, contain such additional personal identification data as is required on fishing licenses issued under the law of the State or States within which it is used, and be signed by the issuing officer and by the holder.
(e) No charge or fee of any kind shall be imposed by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for the issuance of an identification card hereunder:
Provided,
That this shall not prevent any Indian tribe from imposing any fee or tax which it may otherwise be authorized to impose upon the exercise of any tribal fishing right.
(f) All cards issued by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs pursuant to this part 249 shall be and remain the property of the United States and may be retaken by any Federal, State, or tribal enforcement officer from any unauthorized holder. Any card so retaken shall be immediately forwarded to the officer who issued it.
(g) The failure of any person who claims to be entitled to the benefits of
a treaty fishing right to have such a card in his immediate personal possession while fishing or engaging in other activity in the claimed exercise of such right to display it upon request to any Federal, State, or tribal enforcement officer shall be prima facie evidence that the person is not entitled to exercise an Indian fishing right under a treaty of the United States.
(h) No person shall allow any use of his identification card by any other person.
(5 U.S.C. 301; R.S. 463 and 465)
[32 FR 10434, July 15, 1967, as amended at 46 FR 4873, Jan. 19, 1981. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 1052, Jan. 10, 1983]
§ 249.4
Identification of fishing equipment.
All fishing gear or other equipment used in the exercise of any off-reservation treaty fishing right shall be marked in such manner as shall be prescribed in regulations issued pursuant to § 249.2 hereof to disclose the identity of its owner or user. In the absence of proof to the contrary, any fishing gear which is not so marked or labeled shall be presumed not to be used in the exercise of an off-reservation treaty fishing right and shall be subject to control or seizure under State law.
§ 249.5
Use of unauthorized helpers or agents.
No Indian shall, while exercising off-reservations treaty-secured fishing rights, permit any person 12 years of age or older other than the authorized holder of a currently valid identification card issued pursuant to this part 249 to fish for him, assist him in fishing, or use any gear of fishing location identified as his gear or location pursuant to this part 249.
§ 249.6
Enforcement and penalties.
(a) Any Indian tribe with a tribal court may confer jurisdiction upon such court to punish violations by its members of this part 249 or of the area regulations issued pursuant thereto. Jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon each Court of Indian Offenses established pursuant to part 11 of this chapter to punish such violations by members of tribes whose reservations are under the jurisdiction of such court. Courts of Indian Fishing Offenses may be created pursuant to part 11 of this chapter to punish such violations by members of any tribe or group of tribes for which there is otherwise no Court of Indian Offenses or tribal court with jurisdiction to enforce this part 249. The provisions of part 11 of this chapter shall apply to any such court with respect to the exercise of its jurisdiction to enforce this part 249. All jurisdiction conferred by this section shall apply without regard to any territorial limitations otherwise applicable to the jurisdiction of such court.
(b) Acceptance or use of an identification card issued pursuant to this part 249 or use of any fishing gear marked or identified pursuant thereto shall constitute an acknowledgment that the fishing done under such card or with such gear is in the claimed exercise of a tribal fishing right and is subject to the jurisdiction of the tribal court, Court of Indian Offenses, or Court of Indian Fishing Offenses. Except as may be otherwise provided by tribal regulations approved by or on behalf of the Secretary of the Interior, any person claiming to be exercising such tribal right and fishing in violation of the regulations contained in or issued under this part 249 may be punished by a fine of not to exceed $1,617, imprisonment of not to exceed 6 months, or both, and shall have his tribal fishing privileges suspended for not less than 5 days for any violation of this part 249 or of any area regulation issued pursuant thereto. The court shall impound the fishing rights identification card of any person for the period which the fishing privileges are suspended.
[32 FR 10434, July 15, 1967, as amended at 81 FR 42482, June 30, 2016; 82 FR 7653, Jan. 23, 2017; 83 FR 5195, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 15102, Apr. 15, 2019; 85 FR 9369, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7348, Jan. 28, 2021; 87 FR 13156, Mar. 9, 2022; 88 FR 13022, Mar. 2, 2023; 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 249.7
Savings provisions.
Nothing in this part 249 shall be deemed to:
(a) Prohibit or restrict any persons from engaging in any fishing activity in any manner which is permitted under state law;
(b) Deprive any Indian tribe, band, or group of any right which may be secured it by any treaty or other law of the United States;
(c) Permit any Indian to exercise any tribal fishing right in any manner prohibited by any ordinance or regulation of his tribe;
(d) Enlarge the right, privilege, or immunity of any person to engage in any fishing activity beyond that granted or reserved by treaty with the United States;
(e) Exempt any person or any fishing gear, equipment, boat, vehicle, fish or fish products, or other property from the requirements of any law or regulation pertaining to safety, obstruction of navigable waters, national defense, security of public property, pollution, health and sanitation, or registration of boats or vehicles;
(f) Abrogate or modify the effect of any agreement affecting fishing practices entered into between any Indian tribe and the United States or any State or agency of either.

# SUBCHAPTER K—HOUSING
Pt. 256

# PART 256—HOUSING IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (HIP)

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
256.1
Purpose.
256.2
Definitions.
256.3
Policy.
256.4
Information collection.
256.5
What is the Housing Improvement Program?

# Subpart B—Determining Eligibility
256.6
Am I eligible for the Housing Improvement Program?
256.7
What housing services are available?
256.8
When do I qualify for Category A assistance?
256.9
When do I qualify for Category B assistance?
256.10
When do I qualify for Category C assistance?
256.11
When do I qualify for Category D assistance?
256.12
Who administers the program?

# Subpart C—Applying for Assistance
256.13
How do I apply for the Housing Improvement Program?
256.14
How is my application processed?

# Subpart D—Receiving Assistance
256.15
When will I hear if I have received funding?
256.16
What if I don't receive funding?
256.17
How long will I have to wait for work on my house?
256.18
Who decides what work will be done?
256.19
How are work plans prepared?
256.20
How will I find out what work is to be done?
256.21
Who does the work?
256.22
How are construction contractors or companies selected and paid?
256.23
Do I have to move out while work is done?
256.24
How can I be sure that construction work meets minimum standards?
256.25
How will I find out that the work is done?
256.26
Will I need flood insurance?
256.27
Is my Federal government-assisted house eligible for services?
256.28
I have a mobile home; am I eligible for help?
256.29
Can HIP resources be combined with other available resources?
256.30
Can I appeal actions taken under this part?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 13, 5 U.S.C. 301, 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9, and 43 U.S.C. 1457.

# Source:
80 FR 69596, Nov. 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 256.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the part is to define the terms and conditions under which assistance is given to Indians under the Housing Improvement Program (HIP).
§ 256.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Agency
means the organizational unit of BIA that provides services to or with the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian tribes.
Appeal
means a written request for review of an action or inaction of an official of BIA that is claimed to adversely affect the interested party making the request, as provided in part 2 of this chapter.
Applicant
means an individual(s) filing an application for services under the HIP.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Department of the Interior.
Category A
means the HIP funding category for minor repair not to exceed limits in § 256.7 of this part.
Category B
means the HIP funding category for renovation not to exceed limits in § 256.7 of this part.
Category C-1
means the HIP funding category to replace a house that cannot be brought up to standard housing condition for $60,000 or less.
Category C-2
means the HIP funding category for building new housing as defined in § 256.13(g)(1)-(5).
Category D
means the HIP funding category for assistance as defined in § 256.11(a)-(c).
Certificate of Title or Ownership
means a document giving legal right to a house constructed with HIP funds.
Child
means a person under the age of 18 or such other age of majority as is established for purposes of parental support by tribal or state law (if any) applicable to the person at his or her
residence, except that no person who has been emancipated by marriage can be deemed a child.
Cost effective
means the cost of the project is within the cost limits for the category of assistance and adds sufficient years of service to the house to satisfy the recipient's housing needs.
Dilapidated housing
means a house which in its present condition endangers the life, health, or safety of the residents.
Disabled
means having a physical or intellectual impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
Family
means one or more persons living within a household.
Homeless
means being without a home.
House
means a building for human habitation that serves as living quarters for one or more families.
Household
means persons living with the head of household who may be related or unrelated to the head of household and who function as members of a family.
Independent trades person
means any person licensed to perform work in a particular vocation pertaining to building construction.
Indian
means any person who is a member of any federally recognized Indian tribe.
Indian tribe
means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to Public Law 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791.
Overcrowding
means a number of occupants per house that exceeds limits identified in § 256.10(d).
Permanent members of household
means adults living in the household who intend to live there continuously and any children who meet the definition of
child
in this part.
Regional Director
means the officer in charge of a BIA regional office or his/her authorized delegate.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Service area
means any of the following within a geographical area designated by the tribe and approved by the Regional Director to which services can be delivered:
(1) Reservations (former reservations in Oklahoma);
(2) Allotments;
(3) Restricted lands; and
(4) Indian-owned lands (including lands owned by corporations established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act).
Servicing housing office
means the tribal housing office or bureau housing office administering the HIP.
Standard housing
means a house that meets the definition of
standard housing condition
in this part.
Standard housing condition
means meets applicable building codes within that region and meets each of the following conditions:
(1) General construction conforms to applicable tribal, county, State, or national codes and to appropriate building standards for the region.
(2) The heating system has the capacity to maintain a minimum temperature of 70 degrees in the house during the coldest weather in the area and be safe to operate and maintain and deliver a uniform heat distribution.
(3) The plumbing system includes a properly installed system of piping and fixtures certified by a licensed plumbing contractor.
(4) The electrical system includes wiring and equipment properly installed to safely supply electrical energy for lighting and appliance operation certified by a licensed electrician according to the applicable electrical code.
(5) The number of occupants per house does not exceed these limits:
(i) Two-bedroom house: Up to four persons;
(ii) Three-bedroom house: Up to six persons;
(iii) Four-bedroom house: Adequate for all but the largest families.
(6) The first bedroom has up to 120 sq. ft. of floor space and additional bedrooms have up to100 sq. ft. of floor space each.
(7) The house site provides economical access to utilities and is easy to enter and leave.
(8) The house has access to school bus routes, if the household includes children who rely on school buses.
Substandard housing
means any house that does not meet the definition of
standard housing condition
in this part.
Superintendent
means the BIA official in charge of an agency office.
§ 256.3
Policy.
(a) The BIA housing policy is that every American Indian and Alaska Native should have the opportunity for a safe and decent home and suitable living conditions, which is consistent with the national housing policy. The HIP will serve the neediest of the needy Indian families who have no other resource for standard housing.
(b) Every American Indian or Alaska Native who meets the basic eligibility criteria defined in § 256.6 may participate in the HIP.
(c) The BIA encourages tribal participation in administering the HIP. Tribal involvement is necessary to ensure that the services provided under the program respond to the needs of tribes and program participants.
(d) The BIA encourages partnerships and leveraging with other complementary programs to increase basic benefits derived from the HIP, such as an agreement with:
(1) The Indian Health Service to provide water and sanitation facilities;
(2) The United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development to leverage down payment assistance for a new unit; or
(3) Any other program and resource.
(e) The servicing housing office will issue a Certificate of Title or Ownership.
§ 256.4
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507
et seq.
and assigned control number 1076-0184. The information is collected to determine applicant eligibility for services and eligibility to participate in the program. Response is required to obtain a benefit. You may comment to the Bureau at any time with regard to this information collection.
§ 256.5
What is the Housing Improvement Program?
The HIP is a safety-net program that provides grants for the cost of services to repair, renovate, or replace existing housing and/or provide housing. The program provides grants to the neediest of the needy Indian families who:
(a) Live in substandard housing or are homeless; and
(b) Have no other resource for assistance.

# Subpart B—Determining Eligibility
§ 256.6
Am I eligible for the Housing Improvement Program?
You are eligible for the HIP if you meet all of the following criteria:
(a) You are a member of a federally recognized Indian tribe;
(b) You live in an approved tribal service area;
(c) Your annual income is 150 percent or less of the Department of Health and Human Services poverty income guidelines, which are available from your servicing housing office or the Department of the Interior Web site at
www.bia.gov
;
(d) Your present housing is substandard as defined in § 256.2;
(e) You meet the ownership requirements for the assistance needed, as defined in § 256.8, § 256.9, or § 256.10;
(f) You have no other resource for housing assistance;
(g) You have not previously received assistance relating to categories as defined in §§ 256.9, 256.10, and 256.11; and
(h) You did not acquire your present housing through past participation in a Federal government-sponsored housing program over the previous 20 year period.
§ 256.7
What housing services are available?
Four categories of assistance are available under the HIP, as outlined in the following table.
Type of assistance
What it provides
Where to find information
Category A
Up to $7,500 in safety or sanitation repairs to the house in which you live, which will remain substandard. Can be provided more than once, but not for more than one house and the total assistance cannot exceed $7,500. (For Alaska, freight cost not to exceed 100 percent of the cost of materials can be added to the cost of the project.)
§ 256.8.
Category B
Up to $60,000 in renovation, which will bring your house to standard housing condition, as defined in § 256.2 of this part. Can only be provided once. (For Alaska, freight cost not to exceed 100 percent of the cost of materials can be added to the cost of the project.)
§ 256.9.
Category C
A modest house that meets the criteria in § 256.10 of this part and the definition of standard housing in § 256.2 of this part and whose costs are determined by and limited to the criteria in § 256.19(b) and (c) of this part. Can only be provided once. (For Alaska, freight cost not to exceed 100 percent of the cost of materials can be added to the cost of the project.)
§ 256.10.
Category D
Assistance towards the purchase of a modest house that meets the definition of standard housing in § 256.2
§ 256.11.
§ 256.8
When do I qualify for Category A assistance?
You qualify for interim improvement assistance under Category A if it is not cost effective to repair the house in which you live and if either of the following is true:
(a) Other resources to meet your housing needs exist but are not immediately available; or
(b) You qualify for replacement housing under Category C, but there are no HIP funds available to replace your house.
§ 256.9
When do I qualify for Category B assistance?
You qualify for renovation assistance under Category B if you meet all of the following criteria:
(a) Your servicing housing office determines that it is cost effective to renovate the house.
(b) You occupy and own the house.
(c) Your servicing housing office determines that the renovation will bring the house to standard housing condition according to all applicable building codes.
(d) You sign a written agreement stating that, if you sell the house before satisfaction of the Payback Agreement you will be required to repay the tribe, tribal organization that administers the HIP, or BIA the remaining balance according to the terms of the Payback Agreement:
(1) The grant under this part will be voided; and
(2) At the time of settlement of the sale of the house, you will repay the tribe or tribal organization that operates the HIP or BIA the full cost of all renovations made under this part.
§ 256.10
When do I qualify for Category C assistance?
(a) You qualify for replacement housing assistance under Category C if you meet one of the three sets of requirements in the following table.
You qualify for Category C assistance if . . .
And . . .
And . . .
(1) You own the house in which you are living as defined in § 256.13(g)(1)-(5)
The house cannot be brought up to applicable building code standards and to standard housing condition for $60,000 or less. (For Alaska, freight cost not to exceed 100 percent of the cost of materials can be added to the cost of the project)
[No additional requirement].
(2) You do not own a house
You own land that is suitable for housing
The land has adequate ingress and egress rights and reasonable access to utilities.
(3) You do not own a house
You have a leasehold or the ability to acquire a leasehold on land that is suitable for housing and the leasehold is undivided and for not less than 25 years at the time you receive assistance
The land has adequate ingress and egress rights and reasonable access to utilities.
(b) If you qualify for assistance under paragraph (a) of this section, you must sign a written grant agreement stating that, if you sell the house within 10 years of assuming ownership:
(1) The grant under this part will be voided; and
(2) At the time of settlement of the sale of the house, you will repay the tribe or tribal organization that operates the HIP or BIA the full cost of the house.
(c) If you sell the house more than 10 years after you assume ownership, the following conditions apply:
(1) You may retain 10 percent of the original cost of the house per year, beginning with the eleventh year.
(2) If you sell the house after 20 years, you will not have to repay the tribe, tribal organization, or BIA.
(d) A modest house provided with Category C assistance must meet the standards in the following table.
Number of occupants
Number of bedrooms
1
Total square footage
1
(maximum)
Up to 4 persons
2
1000
Up to six persons
3
1200
7 or more persons
4
1400
1
Determined by the servicing housing office, based on composition of family. Total living space must comply with applicable American Disabilities Act requirements.
§ 256.11
When do I qualify for Category D assistance?
(a) You qualify for grant assistance under Category D if you apply for financing from tribal, Federal, or other sources of credit and have inadequate income or limited financial resources to meet the lender requirements for home ownership.
(b) The grant must not exceed the amount necessary to secure the loan and may be used for down-payment assistance, closing costs, and pre-home ownership counseling. Participation with other complementary housing programs is encouraged.
(c) The method of awarding the grant must ensure that the funds are used for the purpose intended.
§ 256.12
Who administers the program?
The HIP is administered by a servicing housing office operated by either a tribe (under a Pub. L. 93-638 contract or a self-governance annual funding agreement) or BIA.

# Subpart C—Applying for Assistance
§ 256.13
How do I apply for the Housing Improvement Program?
(a) First, obtain an application, BIA Form 6407, from your servicing housing office or the BIA Web site.
(b) Second, complete and sign BIA Form 6407.
(c) Third, submit your completed and signed application to your servicing housing office.
(d) Fourth, furnish to the servicing housing office documentation proving your tribal membership. Examples of acceptable documentation include a copy of your Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB) or a copy of your tribal membership card.
(e) Fifth, provide proof of income from all permanent members of your household.
(1) Submit signed copies of current 1040 tax returns from all permanent members of the household, including W-2s and all other attachments. Submit the Social Security number of the applicant only.
(2) Provide proof of all other income from all permanent members of the household. This includes unearned income such as Social Security, general assistance, retirement, and unemployment benefits.
(3) If you or other household members did not file a tax return, submit a signed notarized statement explaining why you did not.
(f) Sixth, furnish a copy of your annual trust income statement for your Individual Indian Money (IIM) account from your home agency. If you do not have an IIM account, furnish a statement from your home agency to that effect.
(g) Seventh, provide proof of ownership of the residence and land or potential leasehold interest:
(1) For fee property, provide a copy of a fully executed deed, which is available at your local county or parish court house;
(2) For trust property, provide certification of ownership from your home agency;
(3) For tribally owned land, provide a copy of a properly executed tribal assignment, certified by the tribe;
(4) For multi-owner property, provide a copy of a properly executed lease;
(5) For a potential lease, provide proof of ability to acquire an undivided leasehold (that is, you will be the only lessee) for a minimum of 25 years from the date of service; or
(6) For down-payment assistance, provide a description and the location of the house to be purchased, verification of your intent to purchase, and the sale price of the house.
(h) Eighth, if you seek down payment assistance, provide a letter from the institution where you have applied for mortgage financing that specifies:
(1) The down payment amount; and
(2) The closing costs required for you to qualify for the loan.
§ 256.14
How is my application processed?
(a) The servicing housing office will review your application. If your application is incomplete, the office will notify you, in writing, of what is needed to complete your application and of the date by which it must be submitted. If you do not return your application by the deadline date, you will not be considered for assistance in that program year.
(b) The servicing housing office will use your completed application to determine if you are eligible for the HIP.
(1) If you are found ineligible for the program, the servicing housing office will advise you in writing within 45 days of receipt of your completed application.
(2) If you are found eligible for the program, the servicing housing office will assess your application for need, according to the factors and numeric values shown in the following table.
Factor
Ranking factor and definition
Ranking description
Point value
1
Annual household income: Must include income of all persons counted in Factors 2, 3, 4. Income includes earned income, royalties, and one-time income. A household with an income 151 percent of more of the Federal poverty guidelines is ineligible for the HIP
Income as a percentage of the Federal poverty guidelines:
Points:
0-25
25.
26-50
20.
51-75
15.
76-100
10
101-125
5.
126-150
0.
2
Aged person: person age 55 or older and must be living in the house.
Maximum points awarded under this factor is 15, regardless of the number of years over age 55. Thus, 15 points will be added to the score for a resident who is 70 years old or older.
Years of age:
Less than 55
55 and older
Points:
1 point per year over age 54, up to maximum of 15 points.
3
Disabled individual: One or more disabled persons living in the house. Must fit under established definition of “disabled as in § 256.2.”
Maximum points awarded under this factor is 10, regardless of the number of disabled residents.
If a there is a disabled resident
10.
4
Dependent Children: Must be under the age of 18 or such other age established for purposes of parental support by tribal or state law (if any). Must live in the house and not be married.
Maximum points awarded under this factor is 15.
Number of dependent children:
Points:
1
3.
2
6.
3
9.
4
12.
5 or more
15.
5
Other conditions:
• Veteran.
• Homeless or Dilapidated house.
• Overcrowded conditions.
Maximum points awarded under this factor is 15
If any of the conditions are present
5 for each condition that applies.
6
Applicants with an approved financing package
If applicant has approved financing
25.
(c) The servicing housing office will develop a list of the applications received and considered for the HIP for the current program year. The list will include, at a minimum, all of the following:
(1) The number of applications received and, of those, the number considered.
(2) The rank assigned to applicants in order of need, from highest to lowest, in accordance with tribal approval and knowledge of need, based on the total numeric value assigned using the factors in paragraph (b) of this section. (In case of a tie, the family with the lower income per household member will be listed first.)
(3) The estimated allowable costs of the improvements, renovations, and replacement projects for each applicant and for the entire priority list. This data must identify which applicants will be served based on the amount of available funding, starting with the neediest applicant and continuing until the available funding is depleted.
(4) A list of the applicants not ranked, with an explanation of why they weren't ranked (such as the reason for ineligibility or the reason for incomplete application).
(d) The servicing housing office submits to the regional office an annual fiscal year report that includes all of the following:
(1) Number of eligible applicants;
(2) Number of applicants who received service;
(3) Names of applicants who received service; and
(4) All of the following for each applicant that received service:
(i) Date of construction start;
(ii) Date of construction completion;
(iii) Cost; and
(iv) HIP category.

# Subpart D—Receiving Assistance
§ 256.15
When will I hear if I have received funding?
Your servicing housing office will inform you whether you will receive funds in writing within 45 days after it completes the list required by § 256.14(c).
(a) If funding is available, the office will send you complete information on how to obtain HIP services.
(b) If funding is not available, the office will send you instructions on how to update your application for funding for the next available program year.
§ 256.16
What if I don't receive funding?
If you don't receive funding, your servicing housing office will retain and consider your application for 3 more years. During this 4-year period, you must ensure that the information on your application is still accurate and provide an annual written update if any information has changed.
§ 256.17
How long will I have to wait for work on my house?
How long it takes to do work on your house depends on:
(a) Your position on the priority list;
(b) Whether funds are available;
(c) The type of work to be done;
(d) The climate and seasonal conditions where your house is located;
(e) The availability of a contractor; and
(f) Other unforeseen factors, such as infrastructure availability.
§ 256.18
Who decides what work will be done?
The servicing housing office will determine what work is to be done on your house or whether your house will be replaced. The servicing housing office also provides the priority list annually to the Indian Health Service if
the Indian Health Service is responsible for verifying availability or feasibility of water and wastewater facilities.
§ 256.19
How are work plans prepared?
(a) First, a trained and qualified representative of your servicing housing office will visit your house to identify what renovation and or replacement will be done under the HIP. The representative will ensure that flood, National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and earthquake requirements are met, including the determination that the renovation or replacement is appropriately treated as a categorical exclusion.
(b) Second, based on the list of renovations or replacement to be done, your servicing housing office will estimate the total cost of renovation to your house. Cost estimates will be based on locally available services and product costs, or other regional-based, industry-recognized cost data, such as that provided by the MEANs or Marshall Swift. If the house is located in Alaska, documented, reasonable, substantiated freight costs, in accordance with Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR 101-40), not to exceed 100 percent of the cost of materials, can be added to the cost of the project.
(c) Third, your servicing housing office will determine which HIP category the improvements to your house meet, based on the estimated cost of renovation or replacement. If the estimated cost to renovate your house is more than $60,000, your servicing housing office will recommend your house for replacement or refer you to another source for housing. The other source does not have to be for a replacement house; it may be for government-subsidized rental units or other sources for standard housing.
(d) Fourth, your servicing housing office will develop a detailed, written report, called a scope of work, that identifies what renovation or construction work on your house will be accomplished and how. The scope of work is used to inform potential bidders of what work is to be done. When the work includes new construction, the scope of work will be supplemented with a set of construction plans and specifications. The construction plans must:
(1) Meet the occupancy and square footage criteria in § 256.10 (d); and
(2) Provide complete and detailed instructions to the builder.
§ 256.20
How will I find out what work is to be done?
The servicing housing office will notify you in writing what work is being scheduled under the HIP. You will be requested to approve the scheduled work by signing a copy of the notice and returning it to the servicing housing office. Work will start after you return the signed copy to the servicing housing office.
§ 256.21
Who does the work?
Your house will be renovated or replaced by either:
(a) A licensed and bonded independent contractor or construction company; or
(b) A tribe that operates the HIP under an Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act agreement.
§ 256.22
How are construction contractors or companies selected and paid?
The servicing housing office must follow Federal procurement or other Bureau-approved tribal procurement policy. Generally, your servicing housing office develops a “bid specification” or statement of work, which identifies the work to be performed. The appropriate contracting office uses the “bid specification” to provide information and invite bids on the project to interested parties. The contracting office selects the winning bidder after technical review of the bids by and written recommendation from the servicing housing office, and after determination that the bidder is qualified and capable of completing the project as advertised.
(a) Partial payments to independent contractors will not exceed 80 percent of the value of the completed and acceptable work.
(b) Recommendation for final payment will be made after final inspection and after all provisions of the contract have been met and all work has been completed.
§ 256.23
Do I have to move out while work is done?
(a) You will be notified by your servicing housing office that you must vacate your house only if:
(1) It is scheduled for major renovations requiring that all occupants vacate the house for safety reasons; or
(2) It is scheduled for replacement, which requires demolition of your current house.
(b) If you are required to vacate the premises during construction, you are responsible for:
(1) Locating other lodging;
(2) Paying all costs associated with vacating and living away from the house; and
(3) Removing all your belongings and furnishings before the scheduled beginning work date.
§ 256.24
How can I be sure that construction work meets minimum standards?
(a) At various stages of construction, a trained and qualified representative of your servicing housing office or a building inspector will review the work to ensure that it meets construction standards and building codes. Upon completion of each stage, further construction can begin only after the inspection occurs and approval is granted.
(b) Inspections of construction and renovation will occur, at a minimum, at the following stages:
(1) Upon completion of inspection footings and foundations;
(2) Upon completion of inspection rough-in, roughwiring, and plumbing; and
(3) At final completion.
§ 256.25
How will I find out that the work is done?
Your servicing housing office will advise you, in writing, that the work has been completed in compliance with the project contract. Also, you will have a final walk-through of the house with a representative of your servicing housing office. You will be requested to verify that you received the notice of completion of the work by signing a copy of the notice and returning it to your servicing housing office.
§ 256.26
Will I need flood insurance?
You will need flood insurance if your house is located in an area identified as having special flood hazards under the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234, 87 Stat. 975). Your servicing housing office will advise you.
§ 256.27
Is my Federal government-assisted house eligible for services?
No. The intention of this program is to assist the neediest of the needy, who have never received services from any other Federal entity.
§ 256.28
I have a mobile home; am I eligible for help?
Yes. If you meet the eligibility criteria in § 256.6 and funding is available, you can receive any of the HIP services identified in § 256.7. If you request Category B services and your mobile home has exterior walls less than three inches thick, you must be considered for Category C services.
§ 256.29
Can HIP resources be combined with other available resources?
Yes. HIP resources may be supplemented with other available resources (
e.g.
, in-kind assistance; tribal or housing authority; and any other leveraging mechanism identified in § 256.3(d)) to increase the number of HIP recipients.
§ 256.30
Can I appeal actions taken under this part?
You may appeal action or inaction by a BIA official, in accordance with 25 CFR part 2.

# SUBCHAPTER L—HERITAGE PRESERVATION
Pt. 262

# PART 262—PROTECTION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES
Sec.
262.1
Purpose, scope and information collection.
262.2
Definitions.
262.3
Consultation to determine need for a permit.
262.4
Activities by Indian tribes or individuals that require a permit.
262.5
Application for permits.
262.6
Landowner consent by the Secretary.
262.7
Notice to Indian tribes of possible harm to cultural or religious sites.
262.8
Custody of archaeological resources.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 470aa-11.

# Cross Reference:
For uniform regulations issued by the Departments of Agriculture, Defense, and the Interior and the Tennessee Valley Authority pertaining to the protection of archaeological resources, and for supplemental regulations issued by the Department of the Interior pertaining to the same, see 43 CFR part 7, subparts A and B.

# Source:
58 FR 65249, Dec. 13, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 262.1
Purpose, scope and information collection.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to implement certain provisions of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (Act) of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa-11), in accordance with section 10(b) and consistent with uniform regulations promulgated under section 10(a) by the Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and Defense and the Chairman of the Board of the Tennessee Valley Authority (43 CFR part 7, 36 CFR part 296, 32 CFR parts 229 and 1312) on February 6, 1984. This part shall provide guidance to officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) on the implementation of the Act as it pertains to this agency.
(b)
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in § 262.5 do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
§ 262.2
Definitions.
As used for purposes of this part:
(a)
Funerary objects
means objects that, as a part of the death rite or ceremony of a culture, are reasonably believed to have been placed with human remains of Indians either at the time of death or later, or to have been made exclusively for burial purposes or to contain such remains.
(b)
Sacred objects
means specific ceremonial objects that are needed by traditional Indian religious leaders for the practice of traditional Indian religions by their present day adherents.
(c)
Object of cultural patrimony
means an object having ongoing historical, traditional, or cultural importance central to an Indian tribe itself and that shall have been considered inalienable by the tribe at the time the object was separated therefrom.
(d)
Indian individual
means:
(1) Any person who is an enrolled member of a Federally recognized Indian tribe;
(2) Any person who is a descendent of such a member and was, on June 1, 1934, physically residing within the present boundaries of any Indian reservation; or
(3) Any other person of one-half or more Indian blood of tribes indigenous to the United States.
(e)
Lands of Indian tribes
means land or any interest therein:
(1) The title to which is held in trust by the United States for an Indian tribe; or
(2) The title to which is held by an Indian tribe, but which cannot be alienated or encumbered by the owner without the approval of the Secretary because of limitations contained in the conveyance instrument pursuant to Federal law or because of a Federal law directly imposing such restrictions.
(f)
Lands of Indian individuals
means land or any interest therein:
(1) The title to which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of Indian individuals; or
(2) The title to which is held by Indian individuals, but which cannot be alienated or encumbered by the owner without the approval of the Secretary because of limitations contained in the conveyance instrument pursuant to Federal law or because of a Federal law directly imposing such restrictions.
§ 262.3
Consultation to determine need for a permit.
(a) Any person, except as provided in the uniform regulations at 43 CFR 7.5(b) through (d), who proposes to excavate or remove archaeological resources on Indian lands or on properties owned or administered by the BIA must first apply for and secure a permit under the Act. Procedures relating thereto are set forth in § 262.5 of this part.
(b) No permit under the Act, nor any other Federally issued license or authorization, is required for archaeological investigations that do not involve the excavation or removal of archaeological resources on these lands, except for BIA consent on properties that it owns or administers. Notwithstanding, persons other than those covered under 43 CFR 7.5(b) through (d) shall, before engaging in such investigations:
(1) Write to the head of each tribal government having jurisdiction over the lands where investigations are to be conducted and request that he or she provide, within 30 days, written information on any permit, license or other form of authorization the tribe might require for the work proposed; and
(2) Provide the BIA Area Director with a copy of the tribe's written response (or a copy of the request to the tribe if 30 days have elapsed without any response) plus a brief but clear written description of the proposed work and obtain his or her written determination as to whether or not a permit under the Act is required. Area Directors shall provide determinations within 10 working days after receiving such documentation.
§ 262.4
Activities by Indian tribes or individuals that require a permit.
(a) No Indian tribe may, without a permit under the Act, excavate or remove archaeological resources on:
(1) Lands of another Indian tribe; or
(2) Lands of Indian individuals, except those on which the law of that tribe regulates such activity.
(b) No individual Indian may, without a permit under the Act, excavate or remove archaeological resources on any Indian lands (including his or her own) other than those on which the law of the tribe of which he or she is a member regulates such activity.
(c) No person, as an employee, consultant, advisor or in any other capacity as an agent for any Indian tribe, shall be exempt from the permit requirements of the Act, except in the cases listed below:
(1) No permit shall be required if a person is a member of the tribe having jurisdiction over the resources in question and the law of that tribe regulates the excavation or removal of archaeological resources on its lands.
(2) Tribal employees need not submit permit applications to the BIA if:
(i) The proposed excavation or removal of archaeological resources is within the normal scope of their duties or otherwise carried out by direction of the tribal government;
(ii) The work is on Indian lands of the tribe or on which the law of that tribe regulates the excavation or removal of archaeological resources;
(iii) The tribe ensures that the provisions for permit issuance in this part and at 43 CFR part 7 have been met by other documented means; and
(iv) Before beginning the work, the tribe notifies the Area Director about the nature and location of the proposed work and allows 10 working days after mailing a notification or 5 working days after an oral notification (provided this is documented) for the Area Director to respond. The Area Director need only respond when action is required under § 262.7 of this part, and may do so either in writing or, if documented, orally.
(3) Consultants, advisors, and others serving by contractual agreement as agents for Indian tribes may use the provisions in § 262.5(f) of this part to expedite the process of obtaining a permit.
(4) Persons serving as agents for Indian tribes as employees or by contractual agreement may abbreviate the consultation required in § 262.3(b) of this part by disregarding the requirement to consult first with the tribe and, provided the communication is documented, by consulting with the Area Director orally. In these cases, the Area Director need only respond when a permit is deemed necessary and
may do so either orally or in writing. If a response is not received within 3 working days after an oral description of the proposed work is made or within 7 working days after a written description is mailed to the Area Director, the work may proceed.
§ 262.5
Application for permits.
(a) Permits from the BIA shall be issued when an applicant meets the requirements set out in 43 CFR 7.8, and may be conditioned, modified, suspended, or revoked by the Area Director. Area Directors may delegate this authority to Agency Superintendents, but only on a permit-by-permit basis and only to those who have adequate professional support available.
(b) Prospective applicants may obtain details on how to apply for a permit by contacting the Area Director, at BIA Area Offices in: Aberdeen, SD; Albuquerque, NM; Anadarko, OK; Arlington, VA; Billings, MT; Gallup, NM; Juneau, AK; Minneapolis, MN; Muskogee, OK; Phoenix, AZ; Portland, OR; or Sacramento, CA; or by writing to the Deputy Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240.
(c) Permit applications proposing the excavation or removal of archaeological resources on Indian lands shall include the following consent documents:
(1) Written permission from the Indian landowner and from the tribe, if any, having jurisdiction over those lands. This must contain such terms and conditions as the landowner or tribe may request be included in the permit. Where the permission is from a tribe, it should either state that no religious or cultural site will be harmed or destroyed by the proposed work or specify terms and conditions that the permit must include in order to safeguard against such harm or destruction.
(i) For lands of Indian tribes, permission must be granted by the tribe.
(ii) For lands of Indian individuals not under tribal jurisdiction, permission must be granted by the owner(s), except as provided in § 262.6.
(iii) For lands of Indian individuals under tribal jurisdiction, permission must be granted by both the owner(s), except as provided in § 262.6, and the tribe having such jurisdiction. Where an applicant is the owner, consent must still be obtained from the tribe.
(iv) Where the ownership of lands of Indian individuals is multiple, permission must be granted by the owners of a majority of interests, except as provided in § 262.6. The same shall apply where the applicant is one of the owners.
(v) Where the terms and conditions a tribe or landowner requests be included in a permit are in conflict with the provisions of this or any other Act, with Federal regulations, or with each other, the Area Director may negotiate with the requestor to eliminate the conflict. If the conflict remains, the permit may not be issued.
(2) Copies of any permits required by tribal law for archaeological work on lands under tribal jurisdiction. This may serve as written consent from the tribe for the purposes of § 262.5(c)(1).
(3) Written agreement by the Indian landowner(s) to release archaeological resources for curation or study, as specified in § 262.8(b).
(d) Permits issued by the BIA shall include the following or similar condition: “Human remains of Indians, funerary objects, sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony may not be excavated or removed unless the permittee has obtained the written consent of the Area Director. In order to obtain consent, the permittee shall present to the Area Director written evidence of prior consultation with the appropriate Indian tribe. If the lands containing the remains or objects are tribal lands, the permittee shall first obtain the written consent of the tribe having jurisdiction over the lands.” Determination as to which tribe is the appropriate tribe shall be made in accordance with § 262.8(a). Area Director consent shall be based on the scientific appropriateness of the research objectives and provisions for recovery, recording, and analysis and may, if documented, be oral. This condition may be omitted from the permit when such excavation or removal is proposed, and the requirements of the condition are met, in the permit application.
(e) Information and assistance in contacting Indian tribes and individual
Indian landowners for the purpose of requesting the consent documents listed under paragraph (c) of this section or of seeking the consultation and consent required under paragraph (d) of this section may be obtained from the BIA office to which the permit application is submitted.
(f) Contractual agreements with the BIA or Indian tribes and permits issued by Indian tribes may be accepted as support documents for permit applications. They may also double as permit documents, if they demonstrate that the provisions for permit issuance in this part and at 43 CFR part 7 have been met and they are attached to a Department of the Interior permit form. This form must be signed by the Area Director, but need only contain the following or similar statement: “This permit is issued to the person(s) named, and in accordance with the terms and conditions in the attached (contractual agreement/tribal permit).”
(g) Area Directors shall respond to permit applications within 15 working days of receipt.
§ 262.6
Landowner consent by the Secretary.
The Secretary of the Interior, or delegate thereof, may, on behalf of the owner(s) of lands of Indian individuals, grant consent for the purposes in § 262.5(c)(1) and (3) when the Secretary or his or her delegate finds that such consent will not result in any injury to the land or owner(s) and when one or more of the following conditions exist:
(a) The owner is a minor or a person
non compos mentis;
(b) The heirs or devisees of a deceased owner have not been determined;
(c) The whereabouts of the owner are unknown;
(d) Multiple owners are so numerous that the Secretary or his or her delegate finds, after documenting his or her efforts to do so, that it would be impractical to obtain their consent, as prescribed in § 262.5(c)(1)(iv) and provided the Secretary or his or her delegate also notifies, in writing, the tribe, if any, having jurisdiction over the land and allows 15 working days from the date of mailing date for response; or
(e) The owner has given the Secretary or his or her delegate written authority to grant such consent on his or her behalf.
§ 262.7
Notice to Indian tribes of possible harm to cultural or religious sites.
When consent by an Indian tribe to proposed excavation or removal of archaeological resources from Indian lands it owns or over which it has jurisdiction contains all of the information written as prescribed and advised in § 262.5(c)(1), it may be taken to mean that subject to such terms and conditions as the tribe might specify, issuance of a permit for the proposed work will not result in harm to, or destruction of, any site of religious or cultural importance. No further notification is necessary, unless the Area Director has reason to believe that the proposed work might harm or destroy a site of religious or cultural importance to another tribe or Native American group. He or she shall then follow the notification procedures at 43 CFR 7.7. Those procedures must also be followed when proposed work might affect lands of Indian individuals over which there is no tribal jurisdiction or public lands owned or administered by the BIA.
§ 262.8
Custody of archaeological resources.
(a) Archaeological resources excavated or removed from Indian lands, except for human remains of Indians, funerary objects, sacred objects and objects of cultural patrimony, remain the property of the Indian tribe or individual(s) having rights of ownership over such lands. Ownership and right of control over the disposition of the excepted items shall be in accordance with the order of priority provided in the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (Pub. L. 101-601), adapted for the purpose of this rule as follows:
(1) In the case of human remains of Indians and funerary objects, in the lineal descendants of the Indian; or
(2) In any case in which such lineal descendants cannot be ascertained, and in the case of sacred objects and objects of cultural patrimony:
(i) In the Indian tribe on whose tribal lands, or on the individual Indian lands of whose members, such remains or objects are discovered;
(ii) In the Indian tribe recognized as aboriginally occupying the public lands owned or administered by the BIA on which such remains or objects are discovered, if upon notice, that tribe states a claim for those remains or objects; or
(iii) Where it can be so demonstrated by a preponderance of evidence, in the tribe other than that in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section having the strongest cultural relationship with such remains or objects, if, upon notice, that tribe states a claim for those remains or objects.
(iv) The Area Director shall provide the required notice to any Indian tribe identified under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, in writing, within 5 working days after such identification has been documented and confirmed, and shall at the same time submit a copy of the notice for publication in the
Federal Register.
This notice shall include a description of the remains or objects; of where, how, and why they were excavated or removed; and of the evidence used to identify the tribe being notified. The remains or objects in question shall be considered the property of the pertinent tribe under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section or, in the case of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, held and administered by the BIA until or unless a claim is stated.
(b) No permit for the excavation or removal of archaeological resources on Indian lands may be issued without the written consent of the Indian landowner(s) either to grant custody of the resources recovered (other than human remains of Indians, funerary objects, sacred objects or objects of cultural patrimony) to a curatorial facility that meets the requirements of 36 CFR part 79 or to allow the permittee a reasonable period of time to hold or have ready access to them at an appropriate location for study. The excepted remains and objects are covered under § 262.5(d) of this part which, in general, permits their excavation or removal only when the research objectives and provisions for recovery, recording, and analysis are scientifically appropriate. Written consent to custody by a curatorial facility may include terms and conditions regarding curation (e.g., cleaning, viewing, loaning, studying, etc.), provided these are consistent with 36 CFR part 79.
(1) On lands of Indian tribes, consent must be obtained from the tribe.
(2) On lands of Indian individuals, consent must be obtained from the owner of the land or the owners of a majority of interests therein, except as provided in § 262.6.
(3) Where consent is by the owners of a majority of interests, it must, if the archaeological resources are to be retained by or returned after study to the interest holders, designate a representative to receive those resources. Whether and how these are subsequently distributed among themselves is a matter for the interest holders to decide.
(c) The Area Director may, after notifying the tribe (if any) having jurisdiction over such lands and allowing 15 working days for response, decline to issue a permit for lands of Indian individuals if he or she has any verifiable reason to believe that archaeological resources retained by the landowner(s) after being studied will be sold or exchanged other than to the tribe having jurisdiction or to a curatorial facility that meets the requirements of 36 CFR part 79. The basis for decline shall be that excavation or removal of resources under such circumstances would not be in the public interest and would thus be contrary to the purposes of the Act.
(d) The landowner(s) alone may grant custody of archaeological resources (except for human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects and objects of cultural patrimony, which are subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section) excavated or removed from lands of Indian individuals that are under tribal jurisdiction to a curatorial facility that meets the requirements of 36 CFR part 79. When, however, such consignment constitutes the ultimate disposition of these resources, the tribe having jurisdiction must also grant its consent. Any subsequent exchange or disposition by the facility
must have the consent of both the landowner(s) and the tribe.
Pt. 265

# PART 265—ESTABLISHMENT OF ROADLESS AND WILD AREAS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
Sec.
265.1
Definition of roadless area.
265.3
Roads prohibited.

# Cross Reference:
For general regulations pertaining to the construction of roads, see part 170 of this chapter.
§ 265.1
Definition of roadless area.
A roadless area has been defined as one which contains no provision for the passage of motorized transportation and which is at least 100,000 acres in extent. Under this definition the Secretary of the Interior ordered (3 FR 609, Mar. 22, 1938) certain roadless areas established on Indian reservations. The following is the only presently existing roadless area:
Name of area—Wind River Reserve.
Reservation—Shoshone.
State—Wyoming.
Approximate acreage—180,387
(a) The boundaries of the Wind River Reserve roadless area are as follows:

# Wind River Meridian, Wyo.
Starting at the SW corner of sec. 22, T. 2 S., R. 3 W., on the south boundary of the Wind River Indian Reservation, thence north six (6) miles to the NE corner of sec. 28, T. 1 S., R. 3 W., thence west three (3) miles to the SW corner of sec. 19, T. 1 S., R. 3 W., thence north four (4) miles along range line to the Wind River Base Line, thence west one (1) mile along Wind River Base Line to the SW corner of Sec. 36, T. 1 N., R. 4 W., thence north six (6) miles to the NW corner of sec. 1, T. 1 N., R. 4 W., thence west five (5) miles along township line to the NE corner of sec. 1, T. 1 N., R. 5 W., thence north four and one-half (4
1/2
) miles along range line to the NE corner of the SE
1/4
of sec. 12, T. 2 N., R. 5 W., thence west one and one-half (1
1/2
) miles to the center of sec. 11, T. 2 N., R. 5 W., thence on a straight line in a northwesterly direction to the top of Bold Mountain, thence on a straight line to the SE corner of sec. 35, T. 4 N., R. 6 W., thence west one (1) mile along township line to the SW corner of sec. 35, T. 4 N., R. 6 W., thence north two (2) miles to the NW corner of sec. 26, T. 4 N., R. 6 W., thence on a straight line in a northwesterly direction to the point where the north line of sec. 15, T. 4 N., R. 6 W. intersects the west boundary of the reservation, thence south, southeasterly and east along the reservation boundary to point of beginning.
(5 U.S.C. 301)
[30 FR 9813, Aug. 6, 1965. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 265.3
Roads prohibited.
(a) Within the boundaries of this officially designated roadless area it will be the policy of the Interior Department to refuse consent to the construction or establishment of any routes passable to motor transportation, including in this restriction highways, roads, truck trails, work roads, and all other types of ways constructed to make possible the passage of motor vehicles either for transportation of people or for the hauling of supplies and equipment, unless the requirements of fire protection, commercial use for the Indians' benefit or actual needs of the Indians clearly demand otherwise.
(b) Foot trails and horse trails are not barred. The Superintendent of the Wind River Reservation on which this roadless area has been established will be held strictly accountable for seeing that the area is maintained in a roadless condition. Elimination of this area or any part thereof from the restriction of this order will be made only upon a written showing of an actual and controlling need.
(5 U.S.C. 301)
[30 FR 9814, Aug. 6, 1965. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]

# Cross Reference:
For rights-of-way for highways over Indian lands, see part 169 of this chapter.

# SUBCHAPTER M—INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT PROGRAM
Pt. 273

# PART 273—EDUCATION CONTRACTS UNDER JOHNSON-O'MALLEY ACT

# Subpart A—General Provisions and Definitions
Sec.
273.101
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
273.102
How will revisions or amendments be made to this part?
273.103
What is the Secretary's policy of maximum Indian participation?
273.104
How will the Secretary extend geographic coverage and enhance participation under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.105
How do these regulations affect existing Tribal rights?
273.106
What key terms do I need to know?

# Subpart B—Program Eligibility

# Applicability
273.110
Who is eligible to request contracts under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.111
How do the requirements for Tribal organizations differ from those for other eligible entities?
273.112
Who is an eligible Indian student under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.113
How can the funds be used under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.114
What programs may be contracted under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?

# Subpart C—Indian Education Committee
273.115
Who determines the unique educational needs of eligible Indian students?
273.116
Does an Indian Education Committee need to establish procedures and report to the BIE Director?
273.117
What are the powers and duties of the Indian Education Committee?
273.118
Are there additional authorities an Indian Education Committee can exercise?

# Subpart D—Education Plan
273.119
What is an education plan and what must it include?
273.120
Does an education plan need to be approved by the BIE Director?
273.121
When does the BIE Director approve the education plan?

# Subpart E—Contract Proposal, Review, and Approval
273.125
How may a new contracting party request a contract under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.126
What proposals are eligible for contracts under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.127
Can a contract include funds to support the duties of an Indian Education Committee?
273.128
How are contracts prioritized?
273.129
May the BIE Director reimburse a public school district for educating non-resident Indian students?
273.130
What is required in the contract proposal for funding?
273.131
What is required for a Tribal request for a contract?
273.132
Who will review and approve the contract proposal?
273.133
What is the process for review and decision?
273.134
What is the timeframe for contract decision?
273.135
Who will negotiate the contract?

# Subpart F—Funding Provisions
273.140
What is the funding formula to distribute funds?
273.141
Will funding be prorated?
273.142
Are advance payments on a contract allowed under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
273.143
Must other Federal, State, and local funds be used?
273.144
Can Johnson-O'Malley funds be used for capital outlay or debt retirement?
273.145
How can funds be used for subcontractors?
273.146
Can funds be used outside of schools?
273.147
Are there requirements of equal quality and standard of education?

# Subpart G—Annual Reporting Requirements
273.150
Does an existing contracting party need to submit any reports?
273.151
What information must the existing contracting party provide in the annual report?
273.152
When is the annual report due?
273.153
Who else needs a copy of the annual report?
273.154
What will happen if the existing contracting party fails to submit an annual report?
273.155
How will the existing contracting party know when reports are due?
273.156
Will technical assistance be available to comply with the annual reporting requirements?
273.157
What is the process for requesting technical assistance and/or training?
273.158
When should the existing contracting party request technical assistance and/or training?
273.159
If the existing contracting party reported a decrease of eligible Indian students, how will funding be reduced?
273.160
Can the Secretary apply a ratable reduction in Johnson-O'Malley program funding?
273.161
What is the maximum decrease in funding allowed?

# Subpart H—General Contract Requirements
273.170
What special program provisions must be included in the contract?
273.171
Can a contractor make changes to a program approved by an Indian Education Committee?
273.172
May State employees enter Tribal lands, reservations, or allotments?
273.173
What procurement requirements apply to contracts?
273.174
Are there any Indian preference requirements for contracts and subcontracts?
273.175
How will a Tribal governing body apply Indian preference requirements for contracts and subcontracts?
273.176
May there be a use and transfer of Government property?
273.177
Who will provide liability and motor vehicle insurance?
273.178
Are there contract recordkeeping requirements?
273.179
Are there contract audit and inspection requirements?
273.180
Are there disclosure requirements for contracts?
273.181
Are there Privacy Act requirements for contracts?
273.182
Are there penalties for misusing funds or property?
273.183
Can the Secretary investigate a potential Civil Rights Act violation?

# Subpart I—Contract Renewal, Revisions, and Cancellations
273.191
How may a contract be renewed for Johnson-O'Malley funding?
273.192
What is required to renew a contract?
273.193
May a contract be revised or amended?
273.194
Does the Indian Education Committee have authority to cancel contracts?
273.195
May a contract be cancelled for cause?

# Subpart J—Responsibility and Accountability
273.201
What is required for the Secretary to meet his or her reporting responsibilities?
273.202
Does this part include an information collection?

# Subpart K—Appeals
273.206
May a contract be appealed?
273.207
How does a contractor request dispute resolution?
273.208
How does a Tribal organization request an appeal?
273.209
How does a State, public school district, or an Indian corporation request an appeal?

# Authority:
Secs. 201-203, Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2203, 2213-2214 (25 U.S.C. 455-457), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
85 FR 10948, Feb. 25, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions and Definitions
§ 273.101
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
The purpose of this part is to set forth the process by which the Secretary will enter into contracts for the education of Indian students under the Johnson-O'Malley Act. Such contracts are for the purpose of financially assisting those efforts designed to meet the specialized and unique educational needs of eligible Indian students, including supplemental programs and school operational support, where such support is necessary to maintain established State educational standards.
§ 273.102
How will revision or amendments be made to this part?
Prior to making any substantive revisions or amendments to this part, the Secretary will consult with Indian Tribes and national and regional Indian organizations to the extent practicable about the need for revision or amendment and will consider their views in preparing the proposed revision or amendment. Nothing in this section precludes Indian Tribes or national or regional Indian organizations from initiating a request for revisions or amendments.
§ 273.103
What is the Secretary's policy of maximum Indian participation?
The meaningful participation in all aspects of educational program development and implementation by those affected by such programs is an essential requisite for success. Such participation not only enhances program responsiveness to the needs of those served, but also provides them with the opportunity to determine and affect the desired level of educational achievement and satisfaction which education can and should provide. Consistent with this concept, maximum Indian participation in the development, approval, and implementation of all programs contracted under this part is required.
§ 273.104
How will the Secretary extend geographic coverage and enhance participation under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
The Secretary will, to the extent practicable, and subject to the availability of appropriations, ensure full geographic coverage and the full participation of all federally recognized Tribes and school districts, regardless of whether the school districts or Tribal organizations had entered into a contract under the Johnson-O'Malley Act before fiscal year 1995. To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary will consult with Indian Tribes and contact State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and Alaska Native organizations that have not previously entered into a contract in the implementation of this section.
§ 273.105
How do these regulations affect existing Tribal rights?
Nothing in these regulations may be construed as:
(a) Affecting, modifying, diminishing, or otherwise impairing the sovereign immunity from suit enjoyed by an Indian Tribe;
(b) Authorizing or requiring the termination, waiving, modifying, or reducing of any existing trust responsibility of the United States with respect to the Indian people;
(c) Permitting significant reduction in services to Indian people as a result of this part; or
(d) Mandating an Indian Tribe to request a contract or contracts. Such requests are strictly voluntary.
§ 273.106
What key terms do I need to know?
Terms used in this part:
Academic year
means the period of the year during which students attend an educational institution.
Appeal
means a request for an administrative review of an adverse Agency decision.
Approving official
means the BIE Director, or Agency Superintendents (for Tribes assigned under their management), has the responsibility and duties to review, approve or decline the contract in accordance with the Act.
Awarding official
means any person who by appointment or delegation in accordance with applicable regulations has the authority to enter into and administer contracts on behalf of the United States of America and make determinations and findings with respect thereto. This person can be a contracting officer or other authorized Federal official.
BIE Director
means the Bureau of Indian Education Director or his or her designee.
Bureau
or
BIE
means the Bureau of Indian Education.
Bureau-funded school
means a Bureau-operated elementary or secondary day or boarding school; or a Bureau-operated dormitory for students attending a school other than a Bureau school; or a Tribally controlled elementary school, secondary school, or dormitory that receives financial assistance for its operation under a contract, grant, or agreement with the Bureau under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the Tribally Controlled Schools Act, as amended.
Calendar year
means the period of 365 days (or 366 days in leap years) starting from January 1.
Capital outlay
means money spent to acquire, maintain, repair, or upgrade capital asset. Capital assets, also known as fixed assets, may include machinery, land, facilities, or other business necessities that are not expended during normal use.
Contract
means to transfer the funds in support of the efforts designed to meet the specialized and unique educational needs of Indian students in the Johnson-O'Malley program from the Federal Government to the contractor. Tribes availing themselves of Public Law 93-638, the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, may receive funds under Title I contracts or Title IV contracts.
Contracting party
means an entity that has a contract through a program authorized under the Johnson-O'Malley Act.
Contractor
means any Tribal organization, State, school district, or Indian corporation to which a contract has been awarded.
Days
means calendar days; except where a date specified in these regulations falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the period will carry over to the next business day.
Debt retirement
means the act of paying off debt completely to a lender.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Indian Education.
Economic enterprise
means any commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business activity that is at least 51 percent Indian owned, established or organized for the purpose of profit.
Education plan
means a comprehensive plan for the programmatic and fiscal services of and accountability by a contractor for the education of eligible Indian students.
Eligible entity
means a Tribal organization, State, public school district, or Indian corporation is eligible to request a contract for a supplemental or operational support program under this Act. For purposes of this part, previously private schools are considered Tribal organizations.
Existing contracting party
means a contracting party that has a contract under this Act that is in effect on the date of the JOM Modernization Act (Pub. L. 115-404), enacted December 31, 2018.
Fiscal year
means the period used by the Bureau for accounting and budget purposes. The Bureau's fiscal year begins October 1 and ends September 30.
Indian
means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe.
Indian Advisory School Board
means an Indian advisory school board established pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 5342-5347 prior to January 4, 1975.
Indian corporation
means a legally established organization of Indians chartered under State or Federal law and which is not included within the definition of “Tribal organization”.
Indian Education Committee
means one of the entities specified by § 273.115.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which is federally recognized as eligible by the U.S. Government through the Secretary for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Initial contract proposal
and
contract proposal
means a proposal for education contracts under the Johnson-O'Malley Act for the purpose of financially assisting those efforts designed to meet the specialized and unique educational needs of eligible Indian students, including programs supplemental to the regular school program and school operational support, where such support is necessary to maintain established State educational standards.
Johnson-O'Malley Act
means the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596), as amended by the Act of June 4, 1936 (49 Stat. 1458, 25 U.S.C. 452-456), and by the Act of January 4, 1975 (88 Stat. 2203), and further amended by the Johnson-O'Malley Supplemental Indian Education Program Modernization Act (Pub. L. 115-404), enacted December 31, 2018 (JOM Modernization Act).
Local Indian Committee
means any committee established pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 7424(c)(4), which provides that the committee must be composed of and selected by parents and family members of Indian children; representatives of Indian Tribes on Indian lands located within fifty miles; teachers in the schools; and if appropriate, Indian students attending secondary schools.
New contracting party
means an entity that enters into a contract under this Act after the date of enactment of
the JOM Modernization Act (Pub. L. 115-404), enacted December 31, 2018.
Operational support
means those expenditures for school operational costs in order to meet established State educational standards or Statewide requirements and as specified in § 273.126.
Parent
means the lawful father or mother of someone, and may include:
(1) Either the natural father or the natural mother of a child;
(2) The adoptive father or adoptive mother of a child;
(3) A child's putative blood parent who has expressly acknowledged paternity;
(4) An individual or agency whose status as guardian has been established by judicial decree.
Previously private school
means a school (other than a Federal school formerly operated by the Bureau) that is operated primarily for Indian students from age 3 years through grades 12; and, which at the time of application is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by the government body(s) of an Indian Tribe(s).
Public school district
means a State-funded school district that:
(1) Serves public elementary schools or public secondary schools; and
(b) Has established or will establish local committees or is using a committee or Indian advisory school board to approve supplementary or operational support programs beneficial to Indian students.
Reservation
or
Indian reservation
means any Indian Tribe's reservation, pueblo, colony, or rancheria, including former reservations in Oklahoma, Alaska Natives regions established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), and Indian allotments.
School district
or
local education agency
means that subdivision of the State which contains the public elementary and secondary educational institutions providing educational services and is controlled by a duly elected board, commission, or similarly constituted assembly.
Scope of work
means a framework document that will outline the work that will be performed under a contract and detail the expectations for the Johnson-O'Malley program.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Sectarian school
means a school sponsored or supported, at least in part, by a religious denomination; also commonly known as a parochial school.
State
means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and each of the outlying areas, or any political subdivision of the 50 States.
School official
or
school administrator
means a person employed by the school in an administration, supervisory, academic, or support staff position.
Supplemental program
means a program designed to meet the specialized and unique educational needs of eligible Indian students that may have resulted from socio-economic conditions of the parents, from cultural or language differences or other factors. Programs may also provide academic assistance to Indian students for the improvement of student learning, increase the quality of instruction, and as provided by § 273.143(b).
System of record
means a system of record that contains information that is retrieved by an individual name or other unique identifiers.
Tribal government, Tribal governing body
and
Tribal Council
means the recognized governing body of an Indian Tribe.
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian Tribe or any legally established organization of Indians or Tribes which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or bodies, or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities; provided that in any case where a contract is let to an organization to perform services benefitting more than one Indian Tribe, the approval of each such Indian Tribe shall be a prerequisite to the letting of the contract.

# Subpart B—Program Eligibility

# Applicability
§ 273.110
Who is eligible to request contracts under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
The following entities are eligible to enter into an education contract under the Johnson-O'Malley Act for the purpose of financially assisting efforts designed to meet the specialized and unique educational needs of eligible Indian students, including supplemental programs and school operational support, where such support is necessary to maintain established State educational standards:
(a) Tribal organizations;
(b) States;
(c) Public school districts that:
(1) Serve public elementary schools or public secondary schools; and
(2) Have a local school board composed of a majority of Indians or have established or will establish an Indian Education Committee, as described in § 273.115 to approve supplementary or operational support programs beneficial to Indian students; and
(d) Indian corporations.
§ 273.111
How do the requirements for Tribal organizations differ from those for other eligible entities?
(a) States, public school districts, or Indian corporations must comply with the requirements in this part.
(b) The requirements of this part apply to Tribal organizations (including but not limited to provisions regarding how funds can be used under the Johnson-O'Malley Act and reporting requirements), except that Tribal organizations do not need to comply with:
(1) Sections 273.120—273.121, regarding approval of an education plan by the Director;
(2) Section 273.125, regarding entering into a contract as a new contracting party;
(3) Sections 273.132—273.135, regarding review, approval, and negotiation of the contract;
(4) Section 273.142, regarding advance payments;
(5) Any section in subpart H (other than the following sections, which still apply: § 273.170, regarding special program provisions to be included in a contract, § 273.172, regarding State employees' access to Tribal lands, reservations or allotments, and § 273.182, regarding penalties for misusing funds or property);
(6) Any section in subpart I (other than § 273.194, regarding the Indian Education Committee's authority to recommend cancellation or suspension of contracts, which still applies);
(7) Any section in subpart K (other than § 273.208).
(c) The contract proposal submitted by the Tribal organization must meet the requirements in part 900 or 1000 of this chapter, in addition to those in § 273.130 except that education plans must be submitted to the BIE Director for approval in accordance with § 273.170. The requirements in part 900 or 1000 of this chapter apply to contracts and compacts with Tribal organizations, except for the provisions in §§ 900.240 through 900.256, 1000.300, and 1000.330 of this chapter concerning retrocession and reassumption of programs. If a Tribal organization retrocedes a contract, the Bureau will then contract with a State, public school district, or Indian corporation for the supplemental programs or operational support. Redesign and reallocation under either Title I contracts or Title IV compacts must be done with approval in accordance with § 900.8(g)(6) of this chapter.
§ 273.112
Who is an eligible Indian student under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
An Indian student is eligible for benefits provided by a Johnson O'Malley contract if the student is:
(a) From age three (3) years through grade(s) twelve (12);
(b) Not enrolled in a Bureau-funded school or sectarian school (except the student is eligible if enrolled in a previously private school controlled by an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization); and
(c) Is either:
(1) At least one-fourth (
1/4
) degree Indian blood descendant of a member of an Indian Tribe as defined in § 273.106; or
(2) A member of an Indian Tribe as defined in § 273.106.
§ 273.113
How can the funds be used under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
An eligible entity may use the funds available under the contract to provide educational benefits to eligible Indian students to:
(a) Establish, carry out programs or expand programs in existence before the contract period that provide:
(1) Remedial instruction, career, academic, and college-readiness counseling, and cultural programs;
(2) Selected courses related to the academic and professional disciplines; or
(3) Important needs, such as school supplies and items that enable recipients to participate in curricular and extra-curricular programs; and
(b) Purchase equipment to facilitate training for professional trade skills and intensified college preparation programs.
§ 273.114
What programs may be contracted under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
All programs contracted under this part must:
(a) Be developed and approved in full compliance with the powers and duties of the Indian Education Committee and as may be contained in the Committee's organizational documents and bylaws.
(b) Be included as a part of the education plan.

# Subpart C—Indian Education Committee
§ 273.115
Who determines the unique educational needs of eligible Indian students?
(a) When a school district to be affected by a contract(s) for the education of Indians has a local school board composed of a majority of Indians, the local school board may act as the Indian Education Committee; otherwise, the parents of Indian children may elect an Indian Education Committee from among their number or a Tribal governing body(ies) of the Indian Tribe(s) affected by the contract(s) may specify one of the following entities to serve as the Indian Education Committee:
(1) A Local Indian Committee or Committees; or
(2) An Indian Advisory School Board or Boards.
(b) The Tribal governing body(ies) of the Indian Tribe(s) affected by the contract(s) may specify one of the entities in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section at its discretion if the Indian Education Committee was established prior to January 4, 1975.
§ 273.116
Does an Indian Education Committee need to establish procedures and report to the BIE Director?
The Indian Education Committee and its members must establish procedures under which the Committee serves. Such procedures must be set forth in the Committee's organizational documents and by-laws.
(a) Each Committee must file a copy of its organizational documents and by-laws with the BIE Director, together with a list of its officers and members.
(b) The existence of an Indian Education Committee may not limit the continuing participation of the rest of the Indian community in all aspects of programs contracted under this part.
§ 273.117
What are the powers and duties of the Indian Education Committee?
Consistent with the purpose of the Indian Education Committee, each such Committee is vested with the authority to undertake the activities in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a) Participate fully in the planning, development, implementation, and evaluation of all programs, including both supplemental and operational support, conducted under a contract or contracts pursuant to this part. Such participation includes further authority to:
(1) Recommend curricula, including texts, materials, and teaching methods to be used in the contracted program or programs;
(2) Approve budget preparation and execution;
(3) Recommend criteria for employment in the program;
(4) Nominate a reasonable number of qualified prospective educational programmatic staff members from which the contractor would be required to select; and
(5) Evaluate staff performance and program results and recommend appropriate action to the contractor.
(b) Approve and disapprove all programs to be contracted under this part. All programs contracted require the prior approval of the appropriate Indian Education Committee.
(c) Secure a copy of the negotiated contract(s) that includes the program(s) approved by the Indian Education Committee.
(d) Recommend cancellation or suspension of a contract(s) under § 273.194.
§ 273.118
Are there additional authorities an Indian Education Committee can exercise?
The organizational papers and by-laws of the Indian Education Committee may include additional powers and duties that would permit the Committee to:
(a) Participate in negotiations concerning all contracts;
(b) Make an annual assessment of the learning needs of Indian children in the community affected;
(c) Have access to all reports, evaluations, surveys, and other program and budget related documents determined necessary by the Committee to carry out its responsibilities, subject only to the provisions of § 273.180;
(d) Request periodic reports and evaluations regarding the Indian education program;
(e) Establish a local grievance policy and procedures related to programs in the education plan;
(f) Meet regularly with the professional staff serving Indian children and with the local education agency;
(g) Hold committee meetings on a regular basis which are open to the public; and
(h) Have such additional powers as are consistent with these regulations.

# Subpart D—Education Plan
§ 273.119
What is an education plan and what must it include?
A prospective contractor in consultation with its Indian Education Committee(s) must formulate an education plan that contains educational objectives that adequately address the educational needs of the Indian students and assures that the contract is capable of meeting such objectives. The education plan must contain:
(a) The education programs developed and approved by the Indian Education Committee(s);
(b) Educational goals and objectives that adequately address the educational needs of the Indian students to be served by the contract;
(c) Procedures for addressing hearing grievances from Indian students, parents, guardians, community members, and Tribal representatives relating to the program(s) contracted. Such procedures must provide for adequate advance notice of the hearing;
(d) Established State standards and requirements that must be maintained in operating the contracted programs and services;
(e) A description of how the State standards and requirements will be maintained;
(f) A requirement that the contractor comply in full with the requirements concerning meaningful participation by the Indian Education Committee;
(g) A requirement that education facilities receiving funds be open to visits and consultations by the Indian Education Committee(s), Tribal representatives, Indian parents and guardians in the community, and by duly authorized representatives of the Federal and State Governments;
(h) An outline of administrative and fiscal management procedures to be used by the contractor;
(i) Justification for requesting funds for operational support. The public school district must establish in its justification that it meets the requirements given in § 273.126(b). The information given should include records of receipt of local, State, and Federal funds;
(j) Budget estimates and financial information needed to determine program costs to contract for services. This includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) State and district average operational cost per pupil;
(2) Other sources of Federal funding the applicant is receiving, the amount received from each, the programs being funded, and the number of eligible Indian students served by such funding;
(3) Administrative costs involved, total number of employees, and total number of Indian employees;
(4) Costs that parents normally are expected to pay for each school;
(5) Supplemental and operational funds outlined in a separate budget, by line item, to facilitate accountability; and
(6) Total number of employees for each special program and number of Indian employees for that program;
(k) The total enrollment of school or district, by age and grade level;
(l) The eligible Indian enrollment—total and classification by Tribal affiliation(s) and by age and grade level;
(m) The total number of school board members and number of Indian school board members;
(n) Government equipment needed to carry out the contract;
(o) The period of contract term requested;
(p) The signature of the authorized representative of applicant; and
(q) Written information regarding:
(1) Program goals and objectives related to the learning needs of potential target students;
(2) Procedures and methods to be used in achieving program objectives, including ways whereby parents, students and communities have been involved in determining needs and priorities;
(3) Overall program implementation including staffing practices, parental and community involvement, evaluation of program results, and dissemination thereof; and
(4) Determination of staff and program effectiveness in meeting the stated needs of target students.
§ 273.120
Does an education plan need to be approved by the BIE Director?
The Secretary will not enter into any contract for the education of Indians unless:
(a) The contractor has submitted an education plan to the BIE Director; and
(b) The BIE Director has determined that the education plan contains educational objectives that adequately address the educational needs of the Indian students who are to be beneficiaries of the contract, and that the contract is capable of meeting such objectives.
§ 273.121
When does the BIE Director approve the education plan?
The BIE Director approves the education plan when a contractor submits a contract proposal for funding.

# Subpart E—Contract Proposal, Review, and Approval
§ 273.125
How may a new contracting party request a contract under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
Subject to the availability of appropriations, eligible entities who have not previously entered into a contract for the Johnson-O'Malley program may submit an initial contract proposal.
§ 273.126
What proposals are eligible for contracts under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
(a) Any proposal to contract for funding a supplemental program will be considered an eligible proposal.
(b)(1) To contract for operational support, a public school district is required to establish in the proposal that it:
(i) Cannot meet the minimum State or other applicable standards or requirements without such funds;
(ii) Has made a reasonable tax effort with a mill levy at least equal to the State average in support of educational programs;
(iii) Has fully utilized all other sources of financial aid, including all forms of State aid and Public Law 874 payments, and the State aid contribution per pupil is at least equal to the State average;
(iv) Has at least 50 percent eligible Indian enrollment;
(v) Has clearly identified the educational needs of the students intended to benefit from the contract;
(vi) Has made a good faith effort in computing State and local contributions without regard to contract funds pursuant to this part; and
(vii) Will not budget or project a deficit by using contract funds pursuant to this part.
(2) The requirements given in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to previously private schools.
§ 273.127
Can a contract include funds to support the duties of an Indian Education Committee?
Programs developed or approved by the Indian Education Committee may, at the option of such Committee, include funds for the performance of Committee duties to include:
(a) Members' attendance at regular and special meetings, workshops and training sessions, as the Committee deems appropriate.
(b) Other reasonable expenses incurred by the Committee in performing its primary duties, including the planning, development, implementation and evaluation of the program.
§ 273.128
How are contracts prioritized?
Priority will be given to contracts:
(a) Which would serve Indian students on or near reservations; and
(b) Where a majority of the Indian students will be members of the Tribe(s) of those reservations.
§ 273.129
May the BIE Director reimburse a public school district for educating non-resident Indian students?
The BIE Director may consider a contract proposal to reimburse a public school district for the full per capita costs of educating Indian students who meet all of the following:
(a) Are members of recognized Indian Tribes;
(b) Do not normally reside in the State in which the school district is located; and
(c) Are residing in Federal boarding facilities for the purpose of attending public schools within the school district.
§ 273.130
What is required in the contract proposal for funding?
A contract proposal must be in writing and contain the following:
(a) Name, address, and telephone number of the proposed contractor;
(b) Name, address, and telephone number of the Tribe(s) to be served by the contract;
(c) Descriptive narrative of the contract proposal;
(d) The education plan approved by the Indian Education Committee;
(e) A separate budget outlining the Johnson-O'Malley funds for operational support and/or supplemental programs, by line item, to facilitate accountability;
(f) A clear identification of what educational needs the Johnson-O'Malley funds requested for operational support will address; and
(g) Documentation of the requirements for operational support in § 273.126(b)(1).
§ 273.131
What is required for a Tribal request for a contract?
(a) An Indian Tribal governing body that desires that a contract be entered into with a Tribal organization must notify the BIE Director no later than February 1 preceding the school year for the contract.
(b) If the BIE Director does not receive the Tribal governing body's notice by the date in paragraph (a) of this section, the BIE Director may contract with the State, public school district, or Indian corporation under this part.
(c) The Tribal governing body has the option to contract with the State, public school district, or Indian corporation.
§ 273.132
Who will review and approve the contract proposal?
Each approving official within each Bureau Region is authorized to approve the contract(s) submitted by the State, public school district, or Indian corporation to provide services to Indian children within that approving official's region.
§ 273.133
What is the process for review and decision?
Upon receiving a contract proposal, the approving official will:
(a) Notify the applicant in writing that the contract proposal has been received, within 14 days after receiving the contract proposal.
(b) Review the contract proposal for completeness and request, within 20 days after receiving the contract proposal, any additional information from the applicant which will be needed to reach a decision.
(c) On receiving the contract proposal for operational support, make a formal written determination and findings supporting the need for such funds. In arriving at such a determination, the approving official must be assured that each local education agency has made a good faith effort in computing State and local contributions without regard to funds requested.
(d) Assess the completed contract proposal to determine if the proposal is feasible and if the proposal complies with the appropriate requirements of the Johnson-O'Malley Act and this part.
(e) Approve or disapprove the contract proposal after fully reviewing and assessing the application and any additional information submitted by the applicant.
(f) Promptly notify the applicant in writing of the decision to approve or disapprove the contract proposal.
(g) If the contract proposal is disapproved, the notice will give the reasons for disapproval and the applicant's right to appeal pursuant to subpart K of this part.
§ 273.134
What is the timeframe for contract decision?
The approving official will approve or disapprove the contract proposal within 90 days after the approving official receives the contract proposal and any additional information requested. The approving official may extend the 90-day deadline after obtaining the written consent of the applicant.
§ 273.135
Who will negotiate the contract?
After the approving official has approved the contract proposal, the awarding official, assisted by Bureau education personnel, will negotiate the contract.

# Subpart F—Funding Provisions
§ 273.140
What is the funding formula to distribute funds?
Funds will be distributed to contractors based upon a funding formula. The funding formula is calculated using data obtained by the Department of Education from the previous year.
(a) The funding formula to determine the funding to be distributed to each contractor is the Weight Factor multiplied by the number of eligible Indian students, where the Weight Factor is:
(1) The State average cost per pupil count divided by the national average cost per pupil count; or
(2) A default weight factor of 1.3, if the calculation in paragraph (a)(1) of this section results in a weight factor of less than 1.3.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the law, Federal funds appropriated for the purpose will be allotted pro rata in accordance with the distribution method outlined in this formula.
(c) For four fiscal years following the date of enactment of the JOM Modernization Act (December 31, 2018):
(1) Existing contractors will not receive an amount that is less than the amount received for Fiscal Year 2018 (the fiscal year preceding the date of enactment of the JOM Modernization Act), unless:
(i) The existing contractor fails to submit a complete annual report;
(ii) The Secretary has found that the existing contractor has violated the terms of a contract under this part; or
(iii) The number of eligible Indian students reported in the annual report has decreased below the number of eligible Indian students served by the existing contractor in Fiscal Year 2018 (the fiscal year preceding the date of enactment of the JOM Modernization Act).
(2) Paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section notwithstanding, no existing contractor will receive an amount of funding per eligible Indian student that is less than the amount of funding per eligible Indian student that the existing
contractor received for Fiscal Year 2018 (the fiscal year preceding the enactment of the JOM Modernization Act).
(d) Beginning December 31, 2022 (4 years after the December 31, 2018, date of enactment of the JOM Modernization Act), no contracting party will receive for a fiscal year more than a 10 percent decrease in funding per eligible Indian student from the previous year.
§ 273.141
Will funding be prorated?
All monies provided by a contract may be expended only for the benefit of eligible Indian students. Where students other than eligible Indian students participate in programs contracted, money expended under the contract will be prorated to cover the participation of only the eligible Indian students, except where the participation of non-eligible students is so incidental as to be
de minimis.
Such
de minimis
participation must be approved by the Indian Education Committee.
§ 273.142
Are advance payments on a contract allowed under the Johnson-O'Malley Act?
Payments to States, public school districts and Indian corporations will be made in advance or by way of reimbursement and in such installments and on such conditions as the BIE Director deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the Act.
§ 273.143
Must other Federal, State, and local funds be used?
(a) Contract funds under this part supplement, and do not supplant, Federal, State and local funds. Each contract must require that the use of these contract funds will not result in a decrease in State, local, or Federal funds that would be made available for Indian students if there were no funds under this part.
(b) State, local and other Federal funds must be used to provide comparable services to non-Indian and Indian students prior to the use of contract funds.
(c) Except as hereinafter provided, the school lunch program of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) constitutes the only federally funded school lunch program for Indian students in public schools. Where Indian students do not qualify to receive free lunches under the National School Lunch Program of USDA because such students are non-needy and do not meet the family size and income guidelines for free USDA lunches, plans prepared pursuant to § 273.119 may provide, to the extent of funding available for Johnson-O'Malley programs, for free school lunches for those students who do not qualify for free USDA lunches but who are eligible Indian students under § 273.112.
§ 273.144
Can Johnson-O'Malley funds be used for capital outlay or debt retirement?
In no instance may contract funds provided under this part be used as payment for capital outlay or debt retirement expenses; except that, such costs are allowable if they are considered to be a part of the full per capita cost of educating eligible Indian students who reside in Federal boarding facilities for the purpose of attending public schools.
§ 273.145
How can funds be used for subcontractors?
The Bureau may make contract funds under the Johnson-O'Malley Act available directly only to Tribal organizations, States, public school districts, and Indian corporations. However, Tribal organizations, States, public school districts, and Indian corporations receiving funds may use the funds to subcontract for necessary services with any appropriate individual, organization, or corporation.
§ 273.146
Can funds be used outside of schools?
Nothing in this part prevents the BIE Director from contracting with Indian corporations who will expend all or part of the funds in places other than the public or private schools in the community affected.
§ 273.147
Are there requirements of equal quality and standard of education?
Contracts with State education agencies or public school districts receiving funds must provide educational opportunities to all Indian children within that school district on the same terms
and under the same conditions that apply to all other students as long as it will not affect the rights of eligible Indian children to receive benefits from the supplemental programs. Public school districts receiving funds must ensure that Indian children receive all aid from the State, and proper sources other than the Johnson-O'Malley contract, which other schools in the district and other school districts similarly situated in the State are entitled to receive. In no instance may there be discrimination against Indians or the schools enrolling Indians.

# Subpart G—Annual Reporting Requirements
§ 273.150
Does an existing contracting party need to submit any reports?
Each existing contracting party must submit an annual report based on the JOM funding received and other contract-related reports as required by the BIE Director.
§ 273.151
What information must the existing contracting party provide in the annual report?
Existing contracting parties who receive Johnson-O'Malley funding must submit the following information in the annual report:
(a) General information about the contractor;
(b) General information about the number and names of the schools;
(c) The number of eligible Indian students who were served using amounts allocated under the contract during the previous fiscal year;
(d) An accounting of the amounts and purposes for which the contract funds were expended;
(e) Information on the conduct of the program;
(f) A quantitative evaluation of the effectiveness of the contract program in meeting the stated objectives contained in the educational plans; and
(g) A complete accounting of actual receipts at the end of the fiscal year for which the contract funds were expended.
§ 273.152
When is the annual report due?
All existing contracting parties must submit the annual report to the BIE Director on or before September 15 of each year and covering the previous academic year.
§ 273.153
Who else needs a copy of the annual report?
All existing contracting parties must send copies of the annual reports to the Indian Education Committee(s) and to the Tribe(s) under the contract at the same time as the reports are sent to the BIE Director.
§ 273.154
What will happen if the existing contracting party fails to submit an annual report?
Any existing contracting party that fails to submit the annual report will receive no amounts under this Act for the fiscal year following the academic year for which the annual report should have been submitted.
§ 273.155
How will the existing contracting party know when reports are due?
The BIE Director will provide existing contracting parties with timely information relating to:
(a) Initial and final reporting deadlines; and
(b) The consequences of failure to comply.
§ 273.156
Will technical assistance be available to comply with the annual reporting requirements?
The Bureau will provide technical assistance and training on compliance with the reporting requirements to existing contracting parties. The Bureau will provide such technical assistance and training on an ongoing and timely basis.
§ 273.157
What is the process for requesting technical assistance and/or training?
(a) Existing contracting parties may request technical assistance and/or training by addressing the request in writing to the BIE Director.
(b) The BIE Director, or designee, will acknowledge receipt of a request
for technical assistance and/or training.
(c) No later than 30 days after receiving the original request, the BIE Director will identify a point of contact and begin the process of providing technical assistance and/or training. The BIE Director and requesting contracting party will work together to identify the form, substance, and timeline for the assistance.
§ 273.158
When should the existing contracting party request technical assistance and/or training?
The existing contracting party is encouraged to request technical assistance and/or training before annual reporting requirements are due in order to avoid the consequences for failure to comply.
§ 273.159
If the existing contracting party reported a decrease of eligible Indian students, how will funding be reduced?
Except as provided in § 273.140(c) and (d) of this part, for four fiscal years following the date of enactment of the JOM Modernization Act (December 31, 2018) an existing contracting party's funding will not be reduced to a level that is less than the amount of funding per eligible Indian student that the existing contracting party received for Fiscal Year 2017 (the fiscal year preceding the date of enactment of the Johnson-O'Malley Modernization Act).
§ 273.160
Can the Secretary apply a ratable reduction in Johnson-O'Malley program funding?
If the funds available under the Johnson-O'Malley Act for a fiscal year are insufficient to pay the full amounts that all existing contracting parties are eligible to receive under for the fiscal year, the Secretary will ratably reduce those amounts for the fiscal year.
§ 273.161
What is the maximum decrease in funding allowed?
Beginning December 31, 2022 (4 years after the December 31, 2018, date of enactment of the JOM Modernization Act), no contracting party may receive for a fiscal year more than a 10 percent decrease in funding per eligible Indian student from the previous fiscal year.

# Subpart H—General Contract Requirements
§ 273.170
What special program provisions must be included in the contract?
All contracts must contain the following:
(a) The education plan containing the education programs approved by the Indian Education Committee(s);
(b) Any formal written determination and findings made by the BIE Director supporting the need for operational support as required by § 273.133(c); and
(c) A provision that State, local, and other Federal Funds will be used to provide comparable services to non-Indian and Indian students prior to the use of Johnson-O'Malley funds for the provision of supplementary program services to Indian children, as required in § 273.143(b).
(d) Public Laws 102-477 and 93-638 Self-Governance Tribes must submit their education plan as required by paragraph (a) of this section to the BIE Director for review. The BIE Director will forward copies of the education plans to the 477 office or the Office of Tribal Self-Governance, as appropriate.
§ 273.171
Can a contractor make changes to a program approved by an Indian Education Committee?
No program contracted may be changed from the time of its original approval by the Indian Education Committee to the end of the contract period without the prior approval, in writing, of the Indian Education Committee.
§ 273.172
May State employees enter Tribal lands, reservations, or allotments?
In those States where Public Law 83-280 (18 U.S.C. 1162 and 28 U.S.C. 1360) do not confer civil jurisdiction, State employees may be permitted to enter upon Indian Tribal lands, reservations, or allotments in an official capacity in connection with a contract under this part if the duly constituted governing body of the Tribe adopts a resolution of consent for the following purposes:
(a) Inspecting school conditions in the public schools located on Indian
Tribal lands, reservations, or allotments; or
(b) Enforcing State compulsory school attendance laws against Indian children, parents or persons standing in
loco parentis.
§ 273.173
What procurement requirements apply to contracts?
States, public school districts, or Indian corporations wanting to contract with the Bureau must comply with the applicable requirements in the Federal Acquisition Regulations at 48 CFR part 1.
§ 273.174
Are there any Indian preference requirements for contracts and subcontracts?
(a) Any contract made with a State, public school district, or Indian corporation for the benefit of Indian students must require that the contractor, to the greatest extent feasible:
(1) Give preference in and opportunities for employment and training to Indians in connection with the administration of such contract(s); and
(2) Give preference in the award of subcontracts to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises.
(b) All subcontractors employed by the contractor must, to the extent possible, give preference to Indians for employment and training and must include in their bid submission a plan to achieve maximum use of Indian personnel.
§ 273.175
How will a Tribal governing body apply Indian preference requirements for contracts and subcontracts?
A Tribal governing body may develop its own Indian preference requirements for its contracts and subcontracts.
§ 273.176
May there be a use and transfer of Government property?
(a) The use of Government-owned facilities for school purposes may be authorized when not needed for Government activities. Transfer of title to such facilities (except land) may be arranged under the provisions of the Act of June 4, 1953 (67 Stat. 41) subject to the approval of the Tribal government if such property is located on a reservation.
(b) In carrying out a contract, the BIE Director may, with the approval of the Tribal government, permit a contractor to use existing buildings, facilities, and related equipment and other personal property owned by the Bureau within its jurisdiction under terms and conditions agreed upon for their use and maintenance. The property at the time of transfer must conform to the minimum standards established by the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1590), as amended (29 U.S.C. 651). Use of Government property is subject to the following conditions:
(1) When nonexpendable Government property is turned over to public school authorities or Indian corporations under a use permit, the permittee must insure such property against damage by flood, fire, rain, windstorm, vandalism, snow, and tornado in amounts and with companies satisfactory to the Federal officer in charge of the property. In case of damage or destruction of the property by flood, fire, rain, windstorm, vandalism, snow, or tornado, the insurance money collected may be expended only for repair or replacement of property. Otherwise, insurance proceeds must be paid to the Bureau.
(2) If the public school authority is self-insured and can present evidence of that fact to the BIE Director, insurance for lost or damaged property will not be required. However, the public school authority will be responsible for replacement of such lost or damaged property at no cost to the Government or for paying the Government enough to replace the property.
(3) The permittee will maintain the property in a reasonable state of repair consistent with the intended use and educational purposes.
(c) The contractor may have access to existing Bureau records needed to carry out a contract under this part, as follows:
(1) The Bureau will make the records available subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), as amended by the Act of November 21, 1974 (Pub. L. 93-502, 88 Stat. 1561).
(2) The contractor may have access to needed Bureau records at the appropriate Bureau office for review and making copies of selected records.
(3) If the contractor needs a small volume of identifiable Bureau records, the Bureau will furnish the copies to the contractor.
§ 273.177
Who will provide liability and motor vehicle insurance?
(a) States, school districts, and Indian corporations must obtain public liability insurance under contracts entered into with the Bureau, unless the Bureau approving official determines that the risk of death, personal injury or property damage under the contract is small and that the time and cost of procuring the insurance is great in relation to the risk.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, any contract which requires or authorizes, either expressly or by implication, the use of motor vehicles must contain a provision requiring the State, school district, or Indian corporation to provide liability insurance, regardless of how small the risk.
(c) If the public school authority is self-insured and can present evidence of that fact to the approving official, liability and motor vehicle insurance will not be required.
§ 273.178
Are there contract recordkeeping requirements?
A contractor will be required to maintain a recordkeeping system that allows the Bureau to meet its legal records program requirements under the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
). Such a record system must:
(a) Fully reflect all financial transactions involving the receipt and expenditure of funds provided under the contract in a manner that will provide accurate, current and complete disclosure of financial status; correlation with budget or allowable cost schedules; and clear audit facilitating data;
(b) Reflect the amounts and sources of funds other than Bureau contract funds that may be included in the operation of the contract;
(c) Provide for the creation, maintenance, and safeguarding of records of lasting value, including those involving individual rights, such as permanent records and transcripts; and
(d) Provide for the orderly retirement of permanent records in accordance with Department Records Schedule (Bureau of Indian Affairs (075)), when there is no established system set up by the State, public school district, or Indian corporation.
§ 273.179
Are there contract audit and inspection requirements?
(a) During the term of a contract and for three (3) years after the project or undertaking is completed, the BIE Director, or any duly authorized representative, must have access, for audit and examination purposes, to any of the contractor's books, documents, papers, and records that, in the BIE Director's or representative's opinion, may be related or pertinent to the contract or any subcontract.
(b) The contractor is responsible for maintaining invoices, purchase orders, canceled checks, balance sheets and all other documents relating to financial transactions in a manner that will facilitate auditing. The contractor is responsible for maintaining files of correspondence and other documents relating to the administration of the contract, properly separated from general records or cross-referenced to general files.
(c) The contractor receiving funds is responsible for contract compliance.
(d) The records involved in any claim or expenditure that has been questioned must be further maintained until a final determination is made on the questioned expenditures.
(e) The contractor and local school officials must make available to each member of the Indian Education Committee and to members of the public upon request: all contracts, non-confidential records concerning students served by the program, reports, budgets, budget estimates, plans, and other documents pertaining to administration of the contract program in the preceding and current years. The contractor or local school official must provide, free of charge, single copies of such documents upon request.
§ 273.180
Are there disclosure requirements for contracts?
(a) Unless otherwise required by law, the Bureau may not place restrictions on contractors that will limit public access to the contractor's records except when records must remain confidential.
(b) A contractor must make all reports and information concerning the contract available to the Indian people that the contract affects. Reports and information may be withheld from disclosure only when both of the following conditions exist:
(1) The reports and information fall within one of the following exempt categories:
(i) Specifically required by statute or Executive Order to be kept secret;
(ii) Commercial or financial information obtained from a person or firm on a privileged or confidential basis; or
(iii) Personnel, medical, social, psychological, academic achievement and similar files where disclosure would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; and
(2) Disclosure is prohibited by statute or Executive Order or sound grounds exist for using the exemption given in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) A request to inspect or copy reports and information must be in writing and reasonably describe the reports and information requested. The request may be delivered or mailed to the contractor. Within 10 working days after receiving the request, the contractor must determine whether to grant or deny the request and immediately notify the request of the determination.
(d) The time limit for making a determination may be extended up to an additional 10 working days for good reason. The requester must be notified in writing of the extension, reasons for the extension, and date on which the determination is expected to be made.
§ 273.181
Are there Privacy Act requirements for contracts?
(a) When a contractor operates a system of records to accomplish a Bureau function, the contractor must comply with subpart K of 43 CFR part 2 which implements the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a). Examples of the contractor's responsibilities are:
(1) To continue maintaining systems of records declared by the Bureau to be subject to the Privacy Act;
(2) To make such records available to individuals involved;
(3) To disclose an individual's record to third parties only after receiving permission from the individual to whom the record pertains, and in accordance with the exceptions listed in 43 CFR 2.231;
(4) To establish a procedure to account for access, disclosures, denials, and amendments to records; and
(5) To provide safeguards for the protection of the records.
(b) The contractor may not, without prior approval of the Bureau:
(1) Discontinue or alter any established systems of records;
(2) Deny requests for notification or access of records; or
(3) Approve or deny requests for amendments of records.
(c) The contractor may not establish a new system of records without prior approval of the Department of Interior and the Office of Management and Budget.
(d) The contractor may not collect information about an individual unless it is relevant or necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Bureau as required by statute or Executive Order.
(e) The contractor is subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(1), which imposes criminal penalties for knowingly and willfully disclosing a record about an individual without the written request or consent of that individual unless disclosure is permitted under one of the exceptions.
§ 273.182
Are there penalties for misusing funds or property?
If any officer, director, agent, or employee of, or connected with, any contractor or subcontractor under this part embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any of the funds or property connected with the contract or subcontract, he or she will be subject to the following penalties:
(a) If the amount involved does not exceed $100, person(s) will be fined not more than $1,032 or imprisoned not more than one (1) year, or both.
(b) If the amount involved exceeds $100, person(s) will be fined not more
than $10,324 or imprisoned for not more than two (2) years, or both.
[85 FR 10948, Feb. 25, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 18363, Mar. 13, 2024]
§ 273.183
Can the Secretary investigate a potential Civil Rights Act violation?
In no instance may there be discrimination against Indians or schools enrolling Indians. When informed by a complainant or through its own discovery that a possible violation of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 exists within a State school district receiving funds, the Secretary will, in accordance with Federal requirements, notify the Department of Education of the possible violation. The Department Education will conduct an investigation into the matters alleged. If the report of the investigation conducted by the Department of Education discloses a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part, and if the non-compliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to contract or to continue financial assistance under the Johnson-O'Malley Act or by any other means authorized by law.

# Subpart I—Contract Renewal, Revisions, and Cancellations
§ 273.191
How may a contract be renewed for Johnson-O'Malley funding?
An awarding official will notify the existing contracting party in advance of the contract's expiration and ask if the existing contracting party wants to renew the contract. The renewal must be in writing from the existing contracting party and the awarding official.
§ 273.192
What is required to renew a contract?
(a) The existing contracting party seeking to renew a contract will submit to the awarding official:
(1) A written request to renew;
(2) The current education plan approved by the Indian Education Committee, if expired;
(3) A scope of work; and
(4) A budget outlining the Johnson-O'Malley funds for operational support and/or supplemental programs, by line item, to facilitate accountability.
(b) The awarding official will send the existing contracting party an acknowledgment letter and specify if any information is required to complete renewal package.
(c) The approving official will approve or disapprove a renewal within 90 days after the approving official receives the renewal and any additional information requested. The approving official may extend the 90-day deadline after obtaining the written consent of the existing contracting party.
§ 273.193
May a contract be revised or amended?
Any contract may be revised or amended as deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of the program being contracted.
(a) A contractor may submit a written request for a revision or amendment of a contract to the awarding official.
(b) The written approval of the Indian Education Committee is required if the contract revision or amendment will alter a program that has been approved by the Indian Education Committee.
§ 273.194
Does the Indian Education Committee have authority to cancel contracts?
The Indian Education Committee may recommend to the BIE Director, through the appropriate awarding official, cancellation or suspension of a contract(s) that contains the program(s) approved by the Indian Education Committee, if the contractor fails to permit such Committee to exercise its powers and duties.
§ 273.195
May a contract be cancelled for cause?
(a) Any contract may be cancelled for cause when the contractor fails to perform the work called for under the contract or fails to permit an Indian Education Committee to perform its duties.
(b) Before cancelling the contract, the BIE Director will provide the contractor with written notice, including:
(1) The reasons why the Bureau is considering cancelling the contract; and
(2) The contractor will be given an opportunity to bring its work up to an acceptable level.
(c) If the contractor does not overcome the deficiencies in its contract performance, the Bureau will cancel the contract for cause. The Bureau will notify the contractor, in writing, of the cancellation. The notice will give the reasons for the cancellation and the right of the contractor to appeal under subpart K of this part.
(d) When a contract is cancelled for cause, the Bureau will attempt to perform the work by another contract.
(e) Any contractor that has a contract cancelled for cause must demonstrate that the cause(s) that led to the cancellation have been remedied before it will be considered for another contract.

# Subpart J—Responsibility and Accountability
§ 273.201
What is required for the Secretary to meet his or her reporting responsibilities?
(a) The Secretary has the following reporting responsibilities to the Committee on Indian Affairs in the Senate; the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; the Subcommittee on Indian, Insular, and Alaska Native Affairs of the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives:
(1) In order to provide information about the Johnson-O'Malley Program, the Bureau must obtain from all existing contracting parties the most recent determination of the number of eligible Indian students served by each contracting party.
(2) The Bureau will make recommendations on appropriate funding levels for the program based on such determination.
(3) The Bureau will make an assessment of the contracts under this Act.
(b) The Bureau will make such reports as described in paragraph (a) of this section publically available.
§ 273.202
Does this part include an information collection?
The collections of information in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0193. Responses is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.

# Subpart K—Appeals
§ 273.206
May a contract be appealed?
(a) A contractor may appeal:
(1) An adverse decision or action of the Bureau regarding a contract; or
(2) A decision to cancel a contract for cause.
(b) The Secretary encourages contractors to seek all means of dispute resolution before a formal appeal.
§ 273.207
How does a contractor request dispute resolution?
The contractor may request dispute resolution in writing to the BIE Director.
(a) The Bureau has in place an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process.
(1) The ADR process is intended to be a supplement to, and not a replacement for, the normal appeal process.
(2) Participation as a complainant in the ADR process is voluntary.
(3) Should a contractor participate in an ADR process, the pre-complaint process may extend to 90 days.
(b) The ADR process may result in an informal resolution of the complaint;
(c) If the ADR process does not result in an informal resolution of the complaint, the contractor still has the right to continue to pursue an appeal.
§ 273.208
How does a Tribal organization request an appeal?
A Tribal organization may request an appeal pursuant to part 900 or 1000 of this chapter, as applicable.
§ 273.209
How does a State, public school district, or an Indian corporation request an appeal?
The State, public school district, or an Indian corporation may request an appeal by filing an appeal with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals under the Contract Disputes Act, 41 U.S.C. 7101-7109, no later than 90 calendar days after the date the contractor receives the decision.
Pt. 275

# PART 275—STAFFING
Sec.
275.1
Purpose and scope.
275.2
Definitions.
275.3
Methods for staffing.
275.4
Implementing regulations.

# Authority:
Sec. 502, Pub. L. 91-648, 84 Stat. 1909, 1925 (42 U.S.C. 4762); Sec. 105, Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2203, 2208-2210 (25 U.S.C. 450i); 26 U.S.C. 48.

# Source:
40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 275.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to outline methods available to tribes for utilizing the services of Bureau employees. These regulations are not intended to prevent an Indian tribe or tribal organization from staffing their programs by other methods they feel appropriate. However, when an Indian tribe or tribal organization decides to provide Bureau employees certain Federal benefits, Civil Service Commission regulations must be adhered to.
§ 275.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2203).
(b)
Area Director
means the official in charge of a Bureau of Indian Affairs Area Office.
(c)
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(d)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, under the direction and supervision of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, who is responsible for the direction of the day-to-day operations of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(e)
Days
means calendar days.
(f)
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which is federally recognized as eligible by the U.S. Government through the Secretary for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.
(g)
Indian
means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe.
(h)
Superintendent
means the official in charge of a Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency Office.
(i)
Tribal Chairman
means tribal chairman, governor, chief or other person recognized by the tribal government as its chief executive officer.
(j)
Tribal government, tribal governing body,
and
tribal council
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe.
(k)
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; or any legally established organization of Indians or tribes which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or bodies or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities.
(l)
Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs who discharges the authority and responsibility of the Secretary for activities pertaining to Indians and Indian affairs.
[40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 37446, Aug. 23, 1978; 45 FR 13452, Feb. 29, 1980]
§ 275.3
Methods for staffing.
(a) An Indian tribal organization may use any of the following three methods to employ or obtain the services of Bureau employees:
(1) Agreement in accordance with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (5 U.S.C. 3371-3376). The agreement may be arranged between the tribal organization, the employee, and the Area Director or Commissioner. Assistance
will be provided by the Area Personnel Office in complying with Civil Service instructions (Federal Personnel Manual, chapter 334) for completing an agreement.
(2) Employment of Bureau employees on or before December 31, 1985, when serving under an appointment not limited to one year or less. A mutual agreement will be made between a tribal organization and the employee before leaving Federal employment to retain coverage for any of the following Federal benefits:
(i) Compensation for work injuries.
(ii) Retirement.
(iii) Health insurance.
(iv) Life insurance.
(3) An agreement by an Indian tribe in accordance with the 1834 Act (25 U.S.C. 48) may be made in connection with contracts under section 102 of the Act.
(i) The agreement may provide for the tribal government to direct the day-to-day activities of Bureau employees. Tribal government direction of Bureau employees means the tribal chairman or other tribal official, as designated by the tribal governing body, is responsible for the planning, coordination, and completion of the daily on-the-job assignments of Bureau employees. The daily assignments of each such Bureau employee are limited to those that fall within the general range of duties prescribed in the employee's Bureau position.
(ii) The agreement to direct day-to-day activities of Bureau employees shall include all employees:
(A) Whose positions are in the program or portion of the program to be contracted; or
(B) In a portion of the program to continue under Bureau operation in connection with a contract for other portions of the program.
(iii) The proposed agreement will be worked out between the tribe, the Superintendent, and the Area Director and forwarded to the Commissioner for final approval.
(b) When a contract application under part 900 of this chapter does not include a proposed agreement for direction of Bureau employees, the application must be submitted at least 120 days in advance of the proposed effective date of the contract to allow time for placement of affected employees.
[40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 5098, Feb. 4, 1976; 64 FR 13896, Mar. 23, 1999]
§ 275.4
Implementing regulations.
Regulations to implement section 105 of the Act will be issued by the Civil Service Commission. The regulations will cover the situations described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of § 275.3.
Pt. 276

# PART 276—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS
Sec.
276.1
Purpose and scope.
276.2
Definitions.
276.3
Cash depositories.
276.4
Bondings and insurance.
276.5
Recordkeeping.
276.6
Program income.
276.7
Standards for grantee financial management systems.
276.8
Financial reporting requirements.
276.9
Monitoring and reporting program performances.
276.10
Grant payment requirements.
276.11
Property management standards.
276.12
Procurement standards.
276.13
Indian preference in grant administration.
276.14
Budget revision.
276.15
Grant closeout.
276.16
Subgrants and subcontracts to nonprofit organizations.
276.17
Printing.
Appendix A to Part 276—Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Grants
Appendix B to Part 276—Financial Reporting Requirements

# Authority:
34 CFR 256; Sec. 104, Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2203, 2207 (25 U.S.C. 450h).

# Source:
40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 276.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of the regulations in this part is to give the uniform administrative requirements for grants awarded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(b) The regulations in this part shall apply to all grants awarded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs unless the part which gives the application process and special requirements for the specific type of grant states otherwise.
§ 276.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Advance by Treasury check
means a payment made by a Treasury check to a grantee upon its request or through the use of predetermined payment schedules before payments are made by the grantee.
(b)
Date of completion
means the date when all work under a grant is completed or the date in the grant award document, or any supplement or amendment thereto, on which Federal assistance ends.
(c)
Disallowed costs
means those charges to a grant which the Bureau or its representative determines to be unallowable.
(d)
Economic enterprise
means any commercial, industrial, agricultural or business activity that is at least 51 percent Indian owned, established or organized for the purpose of profit.
(e)
Excess property
means property under the control of the Bureau which, as determined by the Commissioner, is no longer required for its needs.
(f)
Expendable personal property
means all tangible personal property other than nonexpendable property.
(g)
Grant closeout
means the process by which the Bureau determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the grant have been completed by the grantee and the Bureau.
(h)
Grantee
means the entity which is responsible for administration of the grant.
(i)
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which is federally recognized as eligible by the United States Government through the Secretary for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.
(j)
Letter of credit
means an instrument certified by an authorized official of the Bureau which authorizes a grantee to draw funds when needed from the Treasury, through a Regional Disbursing Office, in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Circular No. 1075 as modified and supplemented by a memorandum of understanding between the Bureau of Government Financial Operation, Department of the Treasury and the Department of the Interior.
(k)
Nonexpendable personal property
means tangible personal property having useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $300 or more per unit. A grantee may use its own definition of nonexpendable personal property provided that such definition would at least include all tangible personal property as defined above.
(l)
Personal property
means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible—having physical existence, or intangible—having no physical existence, such as patents, inventions, and copyrights.
(m)
Real property
means land, land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, excluding removable personal property, machinery and equipment.
(n)
Reimbursement by Treasury check
means a payment made to a grantee with a Treasury check upon request for reimbursement from the grantee.
(o)
Suspension of a grant
means an action by the Bureau which temporarily suspends assistance under the grant pending corrective action by the grantee or pending decision to terminate the grant by the Bureau.
(p)
Termination of a grant
means the cancellation of Federal assistance, in whole or in part, under a grant at any time prior to the date of completion.
(q)
Tribal government, tribal governing body,
and
tribal council
means the recognized governing body of an Indian tribe.
(r)
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe or any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or bodies of which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities.
§ 276.3
Cash depositories.
(a) Except for situations described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Bureau will not:
(1) Require physical segregation of cash depositories for Bureau grant funds provided to a grantee.
(2) Establish any eligibility requirements for cash depositories in which Bureau grant funds are deposited by grantees or their subgrantees.
(b) A separate bank account shall be used when payments under letter of credit are made on a “check-paid” basis in accordance with agreements entered into by a grantee, the Bureau, and the banking institutions involved. A check-paid basis letter of credit is one under which funds are not drawn from the Treasury until the grantee's checks have been presented to its bank for payment.
(c) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for minority business enterprises, grantees are encouraged to use minority banks.
§ 276.4
Bondings and insurance.
In administering Bureau grants, grantees shall observe their regular requirements and practices with respect to bonding and insurance. The Bureau will not impose additional bonding and insurance requirements, including fidelity bonds, except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) The recipient of a Bureau grant which requires contracting for construction or facility improvement (including any Bureau grant which provides for alterations or renovations of real property) shall follow its own requirements and practices relating to bid guarantees, performance bonds, and payment bonds except for contracts exceeding $100,000. For contracts exceeding $100,000, the minimum requirements shall be as follows:
(1) A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the bid price. The bid guarantee shall consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of his bid, execute such contractual documents as may be required within the time specified.
(2) A performance bond on the part of the contractor for 100 percent of the contract price. A performance bond is one executed in connection with a contract to secure fulfillment of all the contractor's obligations under the contract.
(3) A payment bond on the part of the contractor for 100 per cent of the contract price. A payment bond is one executed in connection with a contract to assure payment as required by law of all persons supplying labor and material in the execution of the work provided for in the contract.
(b) Where, in connection with a Bureau grant, the Bureau also guarantees the payment of money borrowed by the grantee, the Bureau may at its discretion require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the grantee are not deemed to be sufficient to protect adequately the interests of the Federal Government.
§ 276.5
Recordkeeping.
(a) The Bureau shall not impose record retention requirements over and above those established by the grantee except that financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to a Bureau grant, or to any subgrant (or negotiated contract exceeding $2500) under a grant, shall be retained for a period of three years, with the following qualifications:
(1) The records shall be retained beyond the three-year period if audit findings have not been resolved.
(2) Records for nonexpendable property which was acquired with Bureau grant funds shall be retained for three years after its final disposition.
(3) When grant records are transferred to or maintained by the Bureau, the three-year retention requirement is not applicable to the grantee.
(b) The retention period starts from the date of submission of the final expenditure report or, for grants which are renewed annually, from the date of the submission of the annual expenditure report.
(c) Grantees are authorized, if they desire, to substitute microfilm copies in lieu of original records.
(d) The Bureau shall request transfer of certain records to its custody from grantees when it determines that the records possess long-term retention value. However, in order to avoid duplicate recordkeeping the Bureau may make arrangements with the grantee for the grantee to retain any records which are continuously needed for joint use.
(e) The Secretary of the Interior and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the grantees and their subgrantees which are pertinent to a specific grant program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, transcripts and copies at government expense.
(f) Unless otherwise required by law, the Bureau shall not place restrictions on grantees which will limit public access to the grantee's records created as part of the grant except when records must remain confidential. Following are some of the reasons for withholding records:
(1) Prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(2) Specifically required by statute or Executive Order to be kept secret;
(3) Commercial or financial information obtained from a person or firm on a privileged or confidential basis.
§ 276.6
Program income.
(a) No grantee receiving a grant shall be held accountable for interest earned on grant funds, pending their disbursement for program purposes.
(b) Proceeds from the sale of real or personal property, either provided by the Federal Government or purchased in whole or in part with Federal funds, shall be handled in accordance with § 276.11.
(c) Royalties received from copyrights and patents produced under the grant during the grant period shall be retained by the grantee and, in accordance with the grant agreement, be either added to the funds already committed to the program or deducted from total allowable project costs for the purpose of determining the net costs on which the Bureau share of costs will be based. After termination or completion of the grant, the Bureau share of royalties in excess of $200 received annually shall be returned to the Bureau in the absence of other specific agreements between the Bureau and the grantee. The Bureau share of royalties shall be computed on the same ratio basis as the Bureau share of the total project cost.
(d) All other program income earned during the grant period shall be retained by the grantee and, in accordance with the grant agreement, shall be either:
(1) Added to funds committed to the project by the Bureau and the grantee and be used to further eligible program objectives, or
(2) Deducted from the total project costs for the purpose of determining the net costs on which the Bureau share of costs will be based.
(e) Grantees shall record the receipt and expenditures of revenues (such as taxes, special assessments, levies, fines, etc.) as a part of grant project transactions when such revenues are specifically earmarked for a grant project in accordance with grant agreements.
§ 276.7
Standards for grantee financial management systems.
(a) Grantee financial management systems for grants and subgrantee financial management systems for subgrants shall provide for:
(1) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant program in accordance with Federal reporting requirements and for each subgrant in accordance with the grantees' requirements. Except when specifically required by law, the Bureau wll not require financial reporting on the accrual basis from tribal organizations whose records are not maintained on that basis. However, when accrual reporting is required by law, tribal organizations whose records are not maintained on that basis will not be required to convert their accounting systems to the accrual basis; they may develop the accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand or on the basis of best estimates.
(2) Records which identify adequately the source and application of funds for
grant—or subgrant—supported activities. These records shall contain information pertaining to grant or subgrant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.
(3) Effective control over and accountability for all grant or subgrant funds, and real and personal property acquired with grant or subgrant funds. Grantees and subgrantees shall adequately safeguard all such property and shall assure that it is used solely for authorized purposes.
(4) Comparison of actual with budgeted amounts for each grant or subgrant, and, when specifically required by the performance reporting requirements of the grant or subgrant, relation of financial information with performance or productivity data, including the production of unit cost information.
(5) Procedures to minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the U.S. Treasury and the disbursement by the grantee, whenever funds are advanced by the Federal Government. When advances are made by a letter-of-credit method, the grantees shall make drawdowns from the U.S. Treasury as close as possible to the time of making the disbursements. Subgrantees shall institute similar procedures when funds are advanced by the grantee.
(6) Procedures for determining the allowability and allocability of costs shall be in accordance with the applicable cost principles prescribed in appendix A of this part.
(7) Accounting records which are supported by source documentation.
(8) A systematic method to assure timely and appropriate resolution of audit findings and recommendations.
(b) Grantees shall require subgrantees (recipients of grants which are passed through by the grantee) to adopt all of the standards in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 276.8
Financial reporting requirements.
Requirements for grantees to report financial information to the Bureau, and to request advances and reimbursment when a letter of credit method is not used, are prescribed in appendix B of this part.
§ 276.9
Monitoring and reporting program performances.
(a) Grantees shall constantly monitor the performance under grant-supported activities to assure that adequate progress is being made toward achieving the goals of the grant. This review shall be made for each program, function, or activity of each grant as set forth in the approved grant application.
(b) Grantees shall submit a performance report for each grant which briefly presents the following for each program, function, or activity involved:
(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the goals established for the period. Where the output of grant programs can be readily quantified, such quantitative data should be related to cost data for computation of unit costs.
(2) Reasons for slippage in those cases were established goals were not met.
(3) Other pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs.
(c) Grantees shall submit the performance reports to the Bureau with the Financial Status Reports (prescribed in appendix B of this part) in the frequency established by appendix B. The Bureau shall prescribe the frequency with which the performance reports will be submitted with the Request for Advance or Reimbursement (prescribed in appendix B) when that form is used in lieu of the Financial Status Report. In no case shall the performance reports be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually.
(d) Between the required performance reporting dates, events may occur which have significant impact upon the project or program. In such cases, the grantee shall inform the Bureau as soon as the following types of conditions become known:
(1) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect the ability to attain program objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules and goals, or preclude the attainment
of project work units by established time periods. This disclosure shall be accomplished by a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any Bureau assistance needed to resolve the situation.
(2) Favorable developments or events which enable meeting time schedules and goals sooner than anticipated or producing more work units than originally projected.
(e) If any performance review conducted by the grantee discloses the need for change in the budget estimates in accordance with the criteria established in § 276.14, the grantee shall submit a request for budget revision.
(f) The bureau shall make site visits as frequently as practicable to:
(1) Review program accomplishments and management control systems.
(2) Provide such technical assistance as may be required, or requested.
§ 276.10
Grant payment requirements.
(a) Except for construction grants for which the letter-of-credit method is optional, the letter-of-credit funding method shall be used by the Bureau where all of the following conditions exist:
(1) When there is or will be a continuing relationship between a grantee and the Bureau for at least a 12-month period and the total amount of advances to be received within that period from the Bureau is $120,000, or more, as prescribed by Treasury Circular No. 1075.
(2) When the grantee has established or demonstrated to the Bureau the willingness and ability to establish procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and their disbursement by the grantee.
(3) When the grantee's financial management system meets the standards for fund control and accountability prescribed in § 276.7.
(b) The method of advancing funds by Treasury check shall be used, in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Circular No. 1075, when the grantee meets all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.
(c) The reimbursement by Treasury check method shall be the preferred method when the grantee does not meet the requirements specified in either paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3), or both. This method may also be used when the major portion of the program is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and when the Bureau grant assistance constitutes a minor portion of the program.
(d) Unless otherwise required by law, the Bureau shall not withhold payments for proper charges made by grantees at any time during the grant period unless:
(1) A grantee has failed to comply with the program objectives, grant award conditions, or Bureau reporting requirements; or
(2) The grantee is indebted to the United States and collection of the indebtedness will not impair accomplishment of the objectives of any grant program sponsored by the United States. Under such conditions, the Bureau may, upon reasonable notice, inform the grantee that payments will not be made for obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the indebtedness to the Federal Government is liquidated.
(e) Appendix B of this part provides the procedures for requesting advances or reimbursements.
[40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 5099, Feb. 4, 1976]
§ 276.11
Property management standards.
(a) Grantees may follow their own property management policies and procedures if they observe the requirements of this section. With respect to property covered by this section, the Bureau may not impose on grantees any requirements (including property reporting requirements)—not authorized by this part unless specifically required by Federal law.
(b) Title to real property to be acquired in whole or in part from a Bureau grant under part 900 of this chapter shall vest in one of the following manners:
(1) Title may be taken by the United States in trust for the Indian tribe upon the request of the tribe and when the real property to be acquired is within the reservation boundaries or adjoins on at least two sides other
trust or restricted lands as prescribed in part 900 of this chapter.
(2) Fee title to the acquired real property shall vest in the Indian tribe whenever the acquisition does not meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless for other reasons a tribe requests title to be taken in the name of the United States. In the absence of applicable statutory authority governing the disposition of real property acquired by a tribe, the tribe shall use the real property for the authorized purposes and in accordance with any other requirements imposed by the terms and conditions of the original grant. Changes in use compatible to other tribal programs may be authorized by the Bureau. When no longer needed for the authorized purposes, the real property shall be used in accordance with the standards set forth in § 276.11(d)(1) for non-expendable personal property. Accordingly, the following priority order for use of such property shall be:
(i) Other grants from the Bureau.
(ii) Grants from other Federal agencies.
(iii) Tribal purposes consistent with those authorized for support by Bureau grants.
(iv) Tribal official activities.
(3) In those instances where the Indian tribe requests, title may be acquired by the United States. Use of these acquired real property interests will be subject to the authorized purposes and in accordance with the provisions of the original grant. Upon a determination that the real property is no longer needed for the authorized purposes, disposition may be made by declaring it excess under provisions of the Act of January 2, 1975 (88 Stat. 1954) and title transferred to the Secretary to be held by the United States in trust for the tribe. Where real property does not meet the requirements under the Act of January 2, 1975 (88 Stat. 1954), the tribe may elect to acquire title under applicable enabling statutory authorities, or in the absence of statutory authority, request withholding disposition in aid of legislation, or authorize disposal under the General Services Administration procedures.
(c) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall also apply when real property is acquired in whole or in part by a Bureau grant other than that provided under part 900 of this chapter. However, when such property is acquired by a grantee other than an Indian tribe, or a tribal governing body, fee simple title to the property shall vest in the grantee upon acquisition. In the absence of applicable statutory provisions governing the use or disposition of such property, it shall be subject to the following requirments, in addition to any other requirements imposed by the terms and conditions of the grant:
(1) The grantee shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the original grant as long as needed.
(2) The grantee shall obtain approval by the Bureau for the use of the real property in other projects when the grantee determines that the property is no longer needed for the original grant purposes. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under other Federal grant programs, or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the grantor.
(3) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, the grantee shall return all real property furnished or purchased wholly with Bureau grant funds to the control of the Bureau. In the case of property purchased in part with Bureau grant funds, the grantee may be permitted to take title to the Federal interest therein upon compensating the Federal Government for its fair share of the property. The Federal share of the property shall be the amount computed by applying the percentage of the Federal participation in the total cost of the grant program for which the property was acquired to the current fair market value of the property.
(d) Standards and procedures governing ownership, use, and disposition of nonexpendable personal property furnished by the Bureau or acquired with Bureau funds are set forth below:
(1)
Nonexpendable personal property acquired with Bureau funds.
When nonexpendable personal property is acquired by a grantee wholly or in part with Bureau funds, title will not be taken by the Bureau except as provided
in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section but shall be vested in the grantee subject to the following restrictions on use and disposition of the property:
(i) The grantee shall retain the property acquired with Bureau funds in the grant program as long as there is a need for the property to accomplish the purpose of the grant program whether or not the program continues to be supported by Bureau funds. When there is no longer a need for the property to accomplish the purpose of the grant program, the grantee shall use the property in connection with the other Federal grants it has received in the following order of priority:
(A) Other grants from the Bureau needing the property.
(B) Grants of other Federal agencies needing the property.
(ii) When the grantee no longer has need for the property in any of its Federal grant programs, or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the grantor, the property may be used for its own official activities in accordance with the following standards:
(A) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of less than $500 and used four years or more. The grantee may use the property for its own official activities without reimbursement to the Federal government or sell the property and retain the proceeds.
(B) All other nonexpendable property. The grantee may retain the property for its own use if a fair compensation is made to the Bureau for the latter's share of the property. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Bureau participation in the grant program to the current fair market value of the property.
(iii) If the grantee has no need for the property, disposition of the property shall be made as follows:
(A) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or less. Except for that property which meets the criteria of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the grantee shall sell the property and reimburse the Bureau an amount which is computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(B) Nonexpendable property with an acquisition cost of over $1,000. The grantee shall request disposition instructions from the Bureau. The Bureau shall determine whether the property can be used to meet the Bureau's requirement. If no requirement exists within the Bureau, the availability of the property shall be reported to the General Services Administration (GSA) by the Bureau to determine whether a requirement for the property exists in other Federal agencies. The Bureau shall issue instructions to the grantee within 120 days and the following procedures shall govern:
(
1
) If the grantee is instructed to ship the property elsewhere, the grantee shall be reimbursed by the benefiting Federal agency with an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the grantee's participation in the grant program to the current fair market value of the property, plus any shipping or interim storage costs incurred.
(
2
) If the grantee is instructed to otherwise dispose of the property, he shall be reimbursed by the Bureau of such costs incurred in its disposition.
(
3
) If disposition instructions are not issued within 120 days after reporting, the grantee shall sell the property and reimburse the Bureau and amount which is computed by applying the percentage of Bureau participation in the grant program to the sales proceeds. Further, the grantee shall be permitted to retain $100 or 10 percent of the proceeds, whichever is greater, for the grantee's selling and handling expenses.
(iv) Where the Bureau determines that property with an acquisition cost of $1,000 or more and financed solely with Bureau funds is unique, different, or costly to replace, it may reserve title to such property, subject to the following provisions:
(A) The property shall be appropriately identified in the grant agreement or otherwise made known to the grantee.
(B) The Bureau shall issue disposition instructions within 120 days after the completion of the need for the property under the grant for which it was acquired. If the Bureau fails to issue disposition instructions within
120 days, the grantee shall apply the standards of paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii)(B), and (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(2) Federally owned nonexpendable personal property. Unless statutory authority to transfer title has been granted to an agency, title to Federally owned property (property to which the Federal Government retains title including excess property made available by the Bureau to grantees) remains vested by law in the Federal Government. Upon termination of the grant or need for the property, such property shall be reported to the Bureau for further Bureau use or, if appropriate, for reporting to the General Services Administration for other Federal agency use. Appropriate disposition instructions will be issued to the grantee after completion of Bureau review.
(e) The grantee's property management standards for nonexpendable personal property shall also include the following procedural requirements:
(1) Property records shall be maintained accurately and provide for a description of the property; manufacturer's serial number or other identification number; acquisition date and cost; source of the property; percentage of Federal funds used in the purchase of property; location, use, and condition of the property; and ultimate disposition data including sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value if the grantee reimburses the bureau for its share.
(2) A physical inventory of property shall be taken and the results reconciled with the property records at least once every two years to verify the existence, current use, and continued need for the property.
(3) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft to the property. Any loss, damage, or theft of nonexpendable property shall be investigated and fully documented.
(4) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition.
(5) Proper sales procedures shall be established for unneeded property which would provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.
(f) When the total inventory value of any unused expendable personal property exceeds $500 at the expiration of need for any grant purposes, the grantee may retain the property or sell the property as long as he compensates the Bureau for its share in the cost. The amount of compensation shall be computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.
(g) Specific standards for control of intangible property are provided as follows:
(1) If any program produces patentable items, patent rights, processes, or inventions, in the course of work aided by a Bureau grant, such fact shall be promptly and fully reported to the Bureau. Unless there is prior agreement between the grantee and Bureau on disposition of such items, the Bureau shall determine whether protection on such invention or discovery shall be sought and how the rights in the invention or discovery—including rights under any patent issued on it—shall be allocated and administered in order to protect the public interest consistent with “Government Patent Policy” (President's memorandum for heads of executive departments and agencies), dated August 23, 1971, and Statement of Government Patent Policy as printed in 36 FR 16889.
(2) Where the grant results in a book or other copyrightable material, the author or grantee is eligible to copyright the work if it is found that (i) the retention of the copyright is not precluded by statute and (ii) equity or the public interest is best served by doing so, by reason of special circumstances. If it is found that the public interest is best served by limiting the term of any copyright to be obtained, such limits shall be set forth in the grant agreement. “Developmental” copyrights may be requested during the development, testing, or evaluation of copyrightable materials in order to prevent them from prematurely falling into the public domain. The copyright will be in accordance with copyright laws. However, the Government shall receive a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use, and to authorize others
to use the work for Government purposes. A copy of any copyright obtained by a grantee shall be provided to the Bureau. Program income received as royalties from copyrights on materials produced under grants is retained by the grantee during the grant period and is to be used according to the provisions of § 276.6(c). Specific agreements between the Bureau and the grantee shall be entered into before the grant is awarded to determine the uses of the royalty income after the grant is completed or terminated.
(h) The use of Bureau-owned facilities under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner by a grantee for purposes of carrying out a grant may be authorized when the facilities are not needed for Bureau purposes.
[40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 37446, Aug. 23, 1978; 64 FR 13897, Mar. 23, 1999]
§ 276.12
Procurement standards.
(a) The standards contained in this section do not relieve the grantee of the contractual responsibilities arising under its contracts. The grantee is the responsible authority, without recourse to the Bureau regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into, in support of a grant. This includes but is not limited to: disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the tribal, Federal or other authority which has proper jurisdiction.
(b) Grantees may use their own procurement regulations provided that procurements made with Bureau grant funds adhere to the standards set forth as follows:
(1) The grantee shall maintain a code or standards of conduct which shall govern the performance of its officers, employees, or agents in contracting with and expending Bureau grant funds. Grantee's officers, employees or agents, shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors or potential contractors. To the extent permissible by law, rules or regulations, such standards shall provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by either the grantee officers, employees, or agents, or by contractors or their agents.
(2) All procurement transactions regardless of whether negotiated or advertised and without regard to dollar value shall be conducted in a manner so as to provide maximum open and free competition. The grantee should be alert to organizational conflicts of interest or non-competitive practices among contractors which may restrict or eliminate competition or otherwise restrain trade. However, this provision will apply only after the Indian preference requirements prescribed in § 276.13 have been met.
(3) The grantee shall establish procurement procedures which provide for, as a minimum, the following procedural requirements:
(i) Proposed procurement actions shall be reviewed by grantee official to avoid purchasing unnecessary or duplicative items. Where appropriate, an analysis shall be made of lease and purchase alternatives to determine which would be the most economical, practical procurement.
(ii) Invitations for bids or requests for proposals shall be based upon a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. In competitive procurements, such description shall not contain features which unduly restrict competition. “Brand name or equal” description may be used as a means to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. When so used, the specific features of the named brand which must be met by offerors should be clearly specified.
(iii) Positive efforts shall be made by the grantees to use small business and minority-owned business sources of supplies and services. Such efforts should allow these sources the maximum feasible opportunity to compete for contracts to be performed using Bureau grant funds. However, this provision will apply only after the Indian preference requirements prescribed in § 276.13 have been met.
(iv) The type of procuring instruments used (i.e., fixed price contracts,
cost reimbursable contracts, etc.) shall be appropriate for the particular procurement and for promoting the best interest of the grant program involved. The “cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost” method of contracting shall not be used.
(v) Formal advertising, with adequate purchase description, sealed bids, and public openings shall be the required method of procurement unless negotiation pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section is necessary to accomplish sound procurement. However, procurement of $10,000 or less need not be so advertised. Where such advertised bids are obtained the awards shall be made to the responsible bidder whose bid is responsive to the invitation and is most advantageous to the grantee, price and other factors considered. (Factors such as discounts, transportation costs, taxes may be considered in determining the lowest bid.) Invitations for bids shall clearly set forth all requirements which the bidder must fulfill in order for his bid to be evaluated by the grantee. Any or all bids may be rejected when it is in the grantee's interest to do so.
(vi) Procurements may be negotiated if it is impractical and unfeasible to use formal advertising. Generally, procurements may be negotiated by the grantee if:
(A) The public exigency will not permit the delay incident to advertising;
(B) The material or service to be procured is available from only one person or firm; (all contemplated sole source procurements where the aggregate expenditure is expected to exceed $5,000 shall be referred to the Bureau for prior approval).
(C) The total amount involved does not exceed $10,000;
(D) The contract is for personal or professional services, or for any service to be rendered by a university, college, or other educational institutions;
(E) No acceptable bids have been received after formal advertising;
(F) The purchases are for highly perishable materials or medical supplies; for material or services where the prices are established by law; for technical items or equipment requiring standardization and interchangeability of parts with existing equipment; for experimental, developmental or research work; for supplies purchased for authorized resale; and for technical or specialized supplies requiring substantial initial investment for manufacture;
(G) Otherwise authorized by law, rules or regulations. Notwithstanding the existence of circumstances justifying negotiation, competition shall be obtained to the maximum extent practicable.
(vii) Contracts shall be made only with responsible contractors who possess the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed procurement. Consideration shall be given to such matters as contractor integrity, record of past performance, financial and technical resources, or accessibility to other necessary resources.
(viii) Procurement records or files for purchases in amounts over $10,000 shall provide at least the following pertinent information: Justification for the use of negotiation in lieu of advertising, contractor selection, and the basis for the cost or price negotiation.
(ix) A system for contract administration shall be maintained to assure contractor conformance with terms, conditions, and specifications of the contract or order, and to assure adequate and timely followup of all purchases.
(c) In addition to provisions to define a sound and complete agreement, the grantee shall include the following provisions in all contracts and subgrants:
(1) Contracts shall contain such contractual provisions or conditions which will allow for administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors violate or breach contract terms, and provide for such sanctions and penalties as may be appropriate.
(2) All contracts, amounts for which are over $10,000 shall contain suitable provisions for termination by the grantee including the manner by which it will be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such contracts shall describe conditions where the contract may be terminated for default
as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor.
(3) In all contracts for construction or facility improvement awarded over $100,000, grantees shall observe the bonding requirements provided in § 276.4.
(4) All construction contracts awarded by recipients and their contractors or subgrantees having a value of more than $10,000, shall contain a provision requiring compliance with Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by Labor Regulations (41 CFR part 87). However, this Equal Employment Opportunity provision will apply only after the Indian preference requirements prescribed in § 276.13 have been met.
(5) All contracts and subgrants for construction or repair shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland “Anti-Kick Back” Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3). This Act provides that each contractor or subgrantee shall be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any part of the compensation to which he is otherwise entitled. The grantee shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Bureau.
(6) When required by the Federal grant program legislation, all construction contracts awarded by grantees and subgrantees over $2,000 shall include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a to a-7) and as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). Under this Act, contractors shall be required to pay wages to laborers and mechanics at a rate not less than the minimum wages specified in a wage determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, contractors shall be required to pay wages not less often than once a week. The grantee shall place a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Department of Labor in each solicitation and the award of a contract shall be conditioned upon the acceptance of the wage determination. The grantee shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Bureau.
(7) Where applicable, all contracts awarded by grantees and subgrantees over $2,000 for construction contracts and over $2,500 for other contracts which involve the employment of mechanics or laborers shall include a provision for compliance with sections 103 and 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-330) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). Under section 103 of the Act, each contractor shall be required to compute the wages of every mechanic and laborer on the basis of a standard work day of 8 hours and a standard work week of 40 hours. Work in excess of the standard workday or workweek is permissible if the worker is compensated at a rate of not less than 1
1/2
times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked over 8 hours in any calendar day or 40 hours in the work week. Section 107 of the Act applies to construction work and provides that no laborer or mechanic shall be required to work in surroundings or under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to his health and safety as determined under construction, safety, and health standards promulgated by the Secretary of Labor. These requirements do not apply to the purchases of supplies or materials or articles ordinarily available on the open market, or contracts for transportation or transmission of intelligence.
(8) Contracts or agreements, the principal purpose of which is to create, develop, or improve products, processes or methods; or for exploration into fields which directly concern public health, safety, or welfare; or constraints in the field of science or technology in which there has been little significant experience outside of work funded by Federal assistance, shall contain a notice to the effect that matters regarding rights to inventions, and materials generated under the contract or agreement are subject to the regulations issued by the Bureau. The contractor shall be advised as to the source of additional information regarding these matters.
(9) All negotiated contracts (except those of $10,000 or less) awarded by
grantees shall include a provision to the effect that the grantee, the Bureau, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to a specific grant program for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions.
(10) Contracts and subgrants of amounts over $100,000 shall contain a provision which requires the recipient to agree to comply with all applicable standards, orders, or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
) as amended. Violations shall be reported to the Bureau and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency.
§ 276.13
Indian preference in grant administration.
Any grant or subgrant shall require that to the greatest extent feasible:
(a) Preferences and opportunities for training and employment in connection with the administration of such a grant or subgrant shall be given to Indians.
(b) Preference in the award of a subgrant, contract or subcontract in connection with administration of a grant shall be given to Indian organizations and economic enterprises.
(c) A tribal governing body may develop its own Indian preference requirements to the extent that such requirements are not inconsistent with the purpose and intent of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for grants executed under this part.
§ 276.14
Budget revision.
Criteria and procedures to be followed by grantees in reporting deviations from grant budgets and requesting approval for budget revisions are as follows:
(a) For nonconstruction grants, grantees shall request prior approvals promptly from the Bureau for budget revisions whenever:
(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the grant-supported program.
(2) The revision indicates the need for additional Bureau funding.
(3) The grant budget is over $100,000 and the cumulative amount of transfers among direct cost object class budget categories exceeds or is expected to exceed $10,000, or five percent of the grant budget, whichever is greater. The same criteria apply to cumulative amount of transfers among programs, functions, and activities when budgeted separately for a grant, except that the Bureau shall permit no transfer which would cause any Federal appropriation, or part thereof, to be used for purposes other than those intended.
(4) The grant budget is $100,000, or less, and the cumulative amount of transfers among direct cost object class budget categories exceeds or is expected to exceed five percent of the grant budget. The same criteria apply to the cumulative amount of transfers among programs, functions, and activities when budgeted separately for a grant, except that the Bureau shall permit no transfer which would cause any Federal appropriation, or part thereof, to be used for purposes other than those intended.
(5) The revisions involve the transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs.
(6) The revisions pertain to the addition of items requiring approval in accordance with the provisions of appendix A of this part.
(b) All other changes to nonconstruction grant budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (d) of this section do not require approval. These changes include:
(1) The use of grantee funds in furtherance of program objectives over and above the grantee minimum share included in the approved grant budget and
(2) The transfer of amounts budgeted for direct costs to absorb authorized increases in indirect costs.
(c) For construction grants, grantees shall request prior approval promptly from the Bureau for budget revisions whenever:
(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the grant-supported programs.
(2) The revision increases the budgeted amounts of Bureau funds needed to complete the project.
(d) When the Bureau awards a grant which provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, the Bureau may require, in the grant agreement, the grantee to request prior approval before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported.
(e) For both construction and nonconstruction grants, the Bureau shall require tribal grantees to notify the Bureau promptly whenever the amount of Bureau authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the grantee by more than $5,000 or 5 percent of the Bureau grant, whichever is greater. This notification will not be required when applications for additional funding are submitted for continuing grants.
(f) When requesting approval for budget revisions, grantees shall use the budget forms which were used in the grant application. However, grantees may request by letter the approvals required by the provisions of appendix A of this part.
(g) Within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, the Bureau shall review the request and notify the grantee whether or not the budget revisions have been approved. If the Bureau does not reach a decision prior to the end of the 30-day period or should the grantee not be notified of the Bureau's decision by the end of the 30-day period the grantee may appeal directly to the Commissioner.
§ 276.15
Grant closeout.
(a) In closing out Bureau grants, the following shall be observed:
(1) Upon request, the Bureau shall make prompt payments to a grantee for allowable reimbursable costs under the grant being closed out.
(2) The grantee shall immediately refund to the Bureau any unencumbered balance of cash advanced to the grantee.
(3) The Bureau shall obtain from the grantee within 90 days after the date of completion of the grant all financial, peformance, and other reports required as a condition of the grant. The Bureau may grant extensions when requested by the grantee.
(4) The Bureau shall make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after these reports are received.
(5) The grantee shall account for any property acquired with grant funds, or received from the Government in accordance with the provisions of § 276.11.
(6) If a final audit has not been performed before the closeout of the grant, the Bureau shall retain the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit.
(b)
Suspension.
When a grantee has materially failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a grant, the Bureau may after reasonable notice to the grantee, suspend the grant. The notice preceding suspension shall include the effective date of the suspension, the reasons for the suspension, the corrective measures necessary for reinstatement of the grant, and, if there is no immediate threat to safety, a reasonable time frame for corrective action prior to actual suspension. No obligations incurred by the grantee during the period of suspension shall be allowable under the suspended grant, except that the Bureau may at its discretion allow necessary and proper costs which the grantee could not reasonably avoid during the period of suspensions if such costs would otherwise be allowable under the applicable cost principles specified in appendix A of this part. Appropriate adjustments to the payments under the suspended grant will be made, either by withholding the payments or by not allowing the grantee credit for disbursements which he may make in liquidation of unauthorized obligations he incurs during the period of suspension. Suspensions shall remain in effect until the grantee has taken corrective action to the satisfaction of the Bureau or given assurances satisfactory to the Bureau that corrective action will be taken, or until the Bureau cancels the grant.
(c)(1)
Cancellation for cause.
The Bureau may cancel any grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever it is determined that the grantee has:
(i) Materially failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the grant;
(ii) Violated the rights or endangered the health, safety, or welfare of any persons;
(iii) Been grossly negligent in or has mismanaged the handling or use of funds provided under the grant.
(2) When it appears that cancellation of a grant shall become necessary, the Bureau shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of this possibility. This written notice shall advise the grantee of the reason for the possible cancellation and the corrective action necessary to avoid cancellation. The Bureau shall also offer, and provide if requested by the grantee, any technical assistance which may be required to effect the corrective action. The grantee shall have 60 days in which to effect this corrective action before the Bureau provides notice of intent to cancel the grant as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3) Upon deciding to cancel for cause, the Bureau shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of that decision, the reasons for the cancellation, and the effective date. The Bureau shall also provide a hearing for the grantee before cancellation, as provided in § 272.51. However, the Bureau may immediately cancel the grant, upon notice to the grantee, if the Bureau determines that continuance of the grant poses an immediate threat to safety. In this event, the Bureau shall provide a hearing for the grantee within ten (10) days of cancellation.
(4) Payments made to grantees or recoveries by the Bureau under grants cancelled for cause shall be in accordance with the legal rights and obligations of the parties.
(d)(1)
Cancellation on other grounds.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, grants may be cancelled in whole or in part only as follows:
(i) By the Bureau with the consent of the grantee, in which case the two parties shall agree upon the cancellation conditions, including the effective date, and in the case of partial cancellation, the portion to be cancelled; or
(ii) By the grantee, upon written notice to the Bureau, setting forth the reasons for the cancellation, the effective date, and, in the case of partial cancellation, the portion to be cancelled.
(2) When a grant is cancelled in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the grantee shall not incur new obligations for the cancelled portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Bureau shall allow full credit to the grantee for the Bureau share of the noncancellable obligations properly incurred by the grantee before cancellation.
[40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 13452, Feb. 29, 1980]
§ 276.16
Subgrants and subcontracts to non-profit organizations.
The uniform administrative requirements in this part, including the cost principles in appendix A, to this part, are applicable to all subgrants or subcontracts made by a grantee in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. However, these requirements and cost principles are applicable as minimum standards for subgrants or subcontracts made to nonprofit organizations. Accordingly, the grantee may prescribe additional or more stringent requirements with regard to subgrants or subcontracts made to non-profit organizations.
§ 276.17
Printing.
As permitted by paragraph 36-2(c) in the Government Printing and Binding Regulations (October 1974, No. 23), published by the Joint Committee on Printing (JCP), printing required by a grantee in performing work under a grant is considered “incidental printing” (e.g., material which the grantee needs to use to respond to the terms of the grant). Whenever the incidental printing is likely to exceed the exclusions in paragraphs 36-3 and 36-4 of the Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) Printing and Binding Regulations, specific provisions on printing as may be required shall be included in the grant agreement. Grantees shall be given the option of using sources other than the Government Printing Office for incidental printing.
[43 FR 37446, Aug. 23, 1978]
Pt. 276, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 276—Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Grants

# part i—general
A.
Purpose and scope.
1.
Objectives.
This attachment sets forth principles for determining the allowable costs of programs administered by grantees under grants from the Bureau. The principles are for the purpose of cost determination and are not intended to identify the circumstances or dictate the extent of Bureau and tribal participation in the financing of a particular grant. They are designed to provide that Bureau assisted programs bear their fair share of costs recognized under these principles, except where restricted or prohibited by law. No provision for profit or other increment above cost is intended.
2.
Policy guides.
The application of these principles is based on the fundamental premises that:
a. Grantees are responsible for the efficient and effective administration of grant programs through the application of sound management practices.
b. The grantee assumes the responsibility for seeing that Bureau assisted program funds have been expended and accounted for consistent with underlying agreements and program objectives.
c. Each grantee organization, in recognition of its own unique combination of staff facilities and experience, will have the primary responsibility for employing whatever form of organization and management techniques may be necessary to assure proper and efficient administration.
3.
Application.
These principles will be applied by the Bureau in determining costs incurred by grantees under Bureau grants (including subgrants, contracts by grantees and subcontracts).
B.
Definitions.
1.
Approval or authorization of the Bureau
means documentation evidencing consent prior to incurring specific cost.
2.
Cost allocation plan
means the documentation identifying, accumulating, and distrtibuting allowable costs under grants and contracts together with the allocation methods used.
3.
Cost,
as used herein, means cost as determined on a cash, accrual, or other basis acceptable to the Bureau as a discharge of the grantee's accountability for Bureau funds.
4.
Cost objective
means a pool, center, or area established for the accumulation of cost. Such areas include organizational units, functions, objects or items of expense as well as ultimate cost objectives including specific grants, projects, contracts, and other activities.
5.
Federal agency
means any department, agency, commission, or instrumentality in the executive branch of the Federal Government which makes grants to grantees.
6.
Grant
means an agreement between the Bureau and a grantee whereby the Bureau provides funds or aid in kind to carry out specified programs, services, or activities. The principles and policies stated in this appendix as applicable to grants in general also apply to any Federally sponsored cost reimbursement type of agreement performed by a grantee, including contracts, subcontracts and subgrants.
7.
Grant program
means those activities and operations of the grantee which are necessary to carry out the purposes of the grant, including any portion of the program financed by the grantee.
8.
Grantee
means the entity which is responsible for administration of the grant.
9.
Services,
as used herein, means goods and facilities, as well as services.
10.
Supporting services
means auxiliary functions necessary to sustain the direct effort involved in administering a grant program or an activity providing service to the grant program. These services may be centralized in the grantee department or in some other agency, and include procurement, payroll, personnel functions, maintenance and operation of space, data processing, accounting, budgeting, auditing, mail and messenger service, and the like.
C.
Basic guidelines.
1.
Factors affecting allowability of costs.
To be allowable under a grant program, costs must meet the following general criteria:
a. Be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient administration of the grant program, be allocable thereto under these principles, and, except as specifically provided herein, not be a general expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of a grantee.
b. Be authorized or not prohibited under applicable laws or regulations.
c. Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in these principles, Federal laws, or other governing limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.
d. Be consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to both Federally assisted and other activities of which the grantee is a part.
e. Be accorded consistent treatment through application of generally accepted accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.
f. Not be allocable to or included as a cost of any other Federally financed program in either the current or a prior period.
g. Be net of all applicable credits.
2.
Allocable costs.
a. A cost is allocable to a particular cost objective to the extent of benefits received by such objective.
b. Any cost allocable to a particular grant or cost objective under the principles provided for in this appendix may not be shifted
to other Federal grant programs to overcome funds deficiencies, avoid restrictions imposed by law or grant agreements, or for other reasons.
c. Where an allocation of joint cost will ultimately result in charges to a grant program, an allocation plan will be required as prescribed in section I.
3.
Applicable credits.
a. Applicable credits refer to those receipts or reduction of expenditure-type transactions which offset or reduce expense items allocable to grants as direct or indirect costs. Examples of such transactions are: purchase discounts; rebates or allowances; recoveries or indemnities on losses; sale of publications, equipment, and scrap; income from personal or incidental services; and adjustments of overpayments or erroneous charges.
b. Applicable credits may also arise when Bureau funds are received or are available from sources other than the grant program involved to finance operations or capital items of the grantee. This includes costs arising from the use of depreciation of items donated or financed by the Bureau to fulfill matching requirements under another grant program. These types of credits should likewise be used to reduce related expenditures in determining the rates or amounts applicable to a given grant.
D.
Composition of cost.
1.
Total cost.
The total cost of a grant program is comprised of allowable direct cost incident to its performance, plus its allocable portion of allowable indirect costs, less applicable credits.
2.
Classification of costs.
There is no universal rule for classifying certain costs as either direct or indirect under every accounting system. A cost may be direct with respect to some specific service or function, but indirect with respect to the grant or other ultimate cost objective. It is essential, therefore, that each item of cost be treated consistently either as a direct or an indirect cost. Specific guides for determining direct and indirect costs allocable under grant programs are provided in the sections which follow.
E.
Direct costs.
1.
General.
Direct costs are those that can be identified specifically with a particular cost objective. These costs may be charged directly to grants, contracts, or to other programs against which costs are finally lodged. Direct costs may also be charged to cost objectives used for the other ultimate cost objective.
2.
Application.
Typical direct costs chargeable to grant programs are:
a. Compensation of employees for the time and effort devoted specifically to the execution of grant programs.
b. Cost of materials acquired, consumed, or expended specifically for the purpose of the grant.
c. Equipment and other approved capital expenditures.
d. Other items of expense incurred specifically to carry out the grant agreement.
e. Services furnished specifically for the grant program by other agencies, provided such charges are consistent with criteria outlined in section G of these principles.
F.
Indirect costs.
1.
General.
Indirect costs are those (a) incurred for a common or joint purpose benefiting more than one cost objective, and (b) not readily assignable to the cost objectives specifically benefited, without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. The term “indirect costs,” as used herein, applies to costs of this type originating in the grantee department, as well as those incurred by other departments in supplying goods, services, and facilities, to the grantee department. To facilitate equitable distribution of indirect expenses to the cost objectives served, it may be necessary to establish a number of pools of indirect cost within a grantee department or in other agencies providing services to a grantee department. Indirect cost pools should be distributed to benefiting cost objectives on bases which will produce an equitable result in consideration or relative benefits derived.
2.
Grantee departmental indirect costs.
All grantee departmental indirect costs, including the various levels of supervision, are eligible for allocation to grant programs provided they meet the conditions set forth in this part. In lieu of determining the actual amount of grantee departmental indirect cost allocable to a grant program, the following methods may be used:
a.
Predetermined fixed rates for indirect costs.
A predetermined fixed rate for computing indirect costs applicable to a grant may be negotiated annually in situations where the cost experience and other pertinent facts available are deemed sufficient to enable the contracting parties to reach an informed judgment (1) as to the probable level of indirect costs in the grantee department during the period to be covered by the negotiated rate, and (2) that the amount allowable under the predetermined rate would not exceed actual indirect cost.
b.
Negotiated lump sum for overhead.
A negotiated fixed amount in lieu of indirect costs may be appropriate under circumstances where the benefits derived from a grantee department's indirect services cannot be readily determined as in the case of small, self-contained or isolated activity. When this method is used, a determination should be made that the amount negotiated will be approximately the same as the actual indirect cost that may be incurred. Such amounts negotiated in lieu of indirect costs will be treated as an offset to total indirect expenses of the grantee department before allocation to remaining activities. The base on which such remaining expenses are allocated should be appropriately adjusted.
3.
Limitation on indirect costs.
a. Bureau grants may be subject to laws that limit the amount of indirect costs that may be allowed. In this event, the Bureau will establish procedures which will assure that the amount actually allowed for indirect costs under each such grant does not exceed the maximum allowable under the statutory limitation or the amount otherwise allowable under this appendix, whichever is the smaller.
b. When the amount allowable under a statutory limitation is less than the amount otherwise allocable as indirect costs under this appendix the amount not recoverable as indirect costs under a grant may not be shifted to another Federally sponsored grant program or contract.
G.
Cost incurred by organizations other than the grantee.
1.
General.
The cost of service provided by other organizations may only include allowable direct costs of the service plus a prorata share of allowable supporting costs and supervision directly required in performing the service, but not supervision of a general nature such as that provided by the head of an organization and his staff assistants not directly involved in operations. However, supervision by the head of an organization whose sole function is providing the service furnished would be an eligible cost. Supporting costs include those furnished by other units of the supplying organizations.
2.
Alternative methods of determining indirect cost.
In lieu of determining actual indirect cost related to a particular service furnished by another organization, either of the following alternative methods may be used provided only one method is used for a specific service during the fiscal year involved.
a.
Standard indirect rate.
An amount equal to ten percent of direct labor cost in providing the service performed by another organization (excluding overtime, shift, or holiday premiums and fringe benefits) may be allowed in lieu of actual allowable indirect cost for that service.
b.
Predetermined fixed rate.
A predetermined fixed rate for indirect cost of the unit or activity providing service may be negotiated as set forth in section F.2.a.
H.
Cost incurred by grantee for others.
1.
General.
The principles provided in section G will also be used in determining the cost of services provided by the grantee to another agency.
I.
Cost allocation plan.
1.
General.
A plan for allocation of costs will be required to support the distribution of any joint costs related to the grant program. All costs included in the plan will be supported by formal accounting records which will substantiate the propriety of eventual charges.
2.
Requirements.
The allocation plan of the grantee should cover all joint costs of the grantees as well as costs to be allocated under plans of other agencies or organizational units which are to be included in the costs of federally sponsored programs. The cost allocation plans of all the agencies rendering services to the grantee, to the extent feasible, should be presented in a single document. The allocation plan should contain, but not neessarily be limited to, the following:
a. The nature and extent of services provided and their relevance to the federally sponsored programs.
b. The items of expense to be included.
c. The methods to be used in distributing cost.
3.
Instructions for preparation of cost allocation plans.
The Bureau, in consultation with the other Federal agencies concerned, will be responsible for developing and issuing the instructions for use by grantees in preparation of cost allocation plans.
4.
Submission of indirect cost proposal and negotiation of indirect cost rates.
a. A grantee should submit its indirect cost proposal to the Federal agency which provides the largest dollar volume of contracts and grants. However, once a Federal agency has handled an indirect cost proposal, that same Federal agency should continue to act upon the proposal even though the preponderance of financial interest may have shifted to another Federal agency, and grantee shall not resubmit its indirect cost proposal to a second Federal agency.
b. Where the grantee submits its proposal to the Department of Interior, the proposal should be sent by the Bureau of Indian Affairs to the cognizant Regional Office of the Department's Office of Audit and Investigation. The Office of Audit and Investigation is responsible for the audit and review of the proposals and negotiation of the indirect cost rates.
c. Grant administrators officers will usually, but are not required to, accept indirect cost rates negotiated by other Federal agencies.
d. The Bureau of Indian Affairs will provide technical assistance in developing indirect cost proposals, if needed.

# Part II—Standards for Selected Items of Cost
A.
Purpose and applicability.
1.
Objective.
This attachment provides standards for determining the allowability of selected items of cost.
2.
Application.
These standards will apply irrespective of whether a particular item of cost is treated as direct or indirect cost. Failure to mention a particular item of cost in the standards is not intended to imply that it is either allowable or unallowable, rather determination of allowability in each case should be based on the treatment of standards provided for similar or related items of cost. The allowability of the selected items of cost is subject to the general
policies and principles stated in part I of this appendix.
B.
Allowable costs.
1.
Accounting.
The cost of establishing and maintaining accounting and other information systems required for the management of grant programs is allowable. This includes cost incurred by central service agencies for these purposes. The cost of maintaining central accounting records required for overall tribal government purposes, such as appropriation and fund accounts by the Treasurer, Comptroller, or similar officials, is considered to be a general expense of government and is not allowable.
2.
Advertising.
Advertising media includes newspapers, magazines, radio and television programs, direct mail, trade papers, and the like. The advertising costs allowable are those which are solely for:
a. Recruitment of personnel required for the grant program.
b. Solicitation of bids for the procurement of goods and services required.
c. Disposal of scrap or surplus materials acquired in the performance of the grant agreement.
d. Other purposes specifically provided for in the grant agreement.
3.
Advisory councils.
Costs incurred by grantee advisory councils or committees established pursuant to Bureau requirements to carry out grant programs are allowable. The cost of like organizations is allowable when provided for in the grant agreement.
4.
Audit service.
The cost of audits necessary for the administration and management of functions related to grant programs is allowable.
5.
Bonding.
Costs of premiums on bonds covering employees who handle grantee funds are allowable.
6.
Budgeting.
Costs incurred for the development, preparation, presentation, and execution of budgets are allowable. Costs for services of a central budget office are generally not allowable since these are costs of general government. However, where employees of the central budget office activity participate in the grantee budget process, the cost of identifiable services is allowable.
7.
Building lease management.
The administrative cost for lease management which includes review of lease proposals, maintenance of a list of available property for lease, and related activities is allowable.
8.
Central stores.
The cost of maintaining and operating a central store's organization for supplies, equipment, and materials used either directly or indirectly for grant programs is allowable.
9.
Communications.
Communication costs incurred for telephone calls or service, telegraph, teletype service, wide area telephone service (WATS), centrex, telpak (tie lines), postage, messenger service and similar expenses are allowable.
10.
Compensation for personal services.
a.
General.
Compensation for personal services includes all remuneration, paid currently or accrued, for services rendered during the period of performance under the grant agreement, including but not necessarily limited to wages, salaries, and supplementary compensation and benefits. The costs of such compensation are allowable to the extent that total compensation for individual employees: (1) Is responsible for the services rendered, (2) follows an appointment made in accordance with tribal government ordinances and rules and which meets Federal merit system or other requirements, where applicable; and (3) is determined and supported as provided in b., below. Compensation for employees engaged in federally assisted actvities will be considered reasonable to the extent that it is consistent with that paid for similar work in other activities of the tribal government. In cases where the kinds of employees required for the federally assisted activities are not found in the other activities of the tribal government, compensation will be considered reasonable to the extent that it is comparable to that paid for similar work in the labor market in which the employing government competes for the kind of employees involved. Compensation surveys providing data representative of the labor market involved will be an acceptable basis for evaluating reasonableness.
b.
Payroll and distribution of time.
Amounts charged to grant programs for personal services, regardless of whether treated as direct or indirect costs, will be based on payrolls documented and approved in accordance with generally accepted practice of the tribal government. Payrolls must be supported by time and attendance or equivalent records for individual employees. Salaries and wages of employees chargeable to more than one grant program or other cost objective will be supported by appropriate time distribution records. The method used should produce an equitable distribution of time and effort.
11.
Depreciation and use allowance.
a. Grantees may be compensated for the use of their own buildings, capital improvements, and equipment through use allowances or depreciation. Use allowances are the means of providing compensation in lieu of depreciation or other equivalent costs. However, a combination of the two methods may not be used in connection with a single class of fixed assets.
b. The computation of depreciation or use allowance will be based on acquisition cost. Where actual cost records have not been maintained, a reasonable estimate of the original acquisition cost may be used in the computation. The computation will exclude
the cost or any portion of the cost of buildings and equipment donated or borne directly or indirectly by the Federal Government through charges to Federal grant programs or otherwise, irrespective of whether title was originally vested or where it presently resides. In addition, the computation will also exclude the cost of land. Depreciation or a use allowance on idle or excess facilities is not allowable, except when specifically authorized by the grantor Federal agency.
c. Where the depreciation method is followed, adequate property records must be maintained, and any generally accepted method of computing depreciation must be consistently applied for any specific asset or class of assets for all affected Federally sponsored programs and must result in equitable charges considering the extent of the use of the assets for benefit of such programs.
d. In lieu of depreciation, a use allowance for buildings and improvements may be computed at an annual rate not exceeding two percent of acquisition cost. The use allowance for equipment (excluding items properly capitalized as building cost) will be computed at an annual rate not exceeding six and two-thirds percent of acquisition cost of usable equipment.
e. No depreciation or use charge may be allowed on any assets that would be considered as fully depreciated, provided, however, that reasonable use charges may be negotitated for any such assets if warranted after taking into consideration the cost of the facility or item involved, the estimated useful life remaining at time of negotiation, the effect of any increased maintenance charges or decreased efficiency due to age, and any other factors pertinent to utilization of the facility or item for the purpose contemplated.
12.
Disbursing service.
The cost of disbursing grant program funds by the Treasurer or other designated officer is allowable. Disbursing services cover the processing of checks or warrants, from preparation to redemption, including the necessary records of accountability and reconciliation of such records with related cash accounts.
13.
Employee fringe benefits.
Costs identified under a. and b. below are allowable to the extent that total compensation for employees is reasonable as defined in section B.10.
a. Employee benefits in the form of regular compensation paid to employees during periods of authorized absences from the job, such as for annual leave, sick leave, court leave, military leave, and the like, if they are: (1) Provided pursuant to an approved leave system, and (2) the cost thereof is equitably allocated to all related activities, including grant programs.
b. Employee benefits in the form of employers' contribution or expenses for social security, employees' life and health insurance plans, unemployment insurance coverage, workmen's compensation insurance, pension plans, severance pay, and the like, provided such benefits are granted under approved plans and are distributed equitably to grant programs and in other activities.
14.
Employee morale, health and welfare costs.
The costs of health or first-aid clinics and/or infirmaries, recreational facilities, employees' counseling services, employee information publications, and any related expenses incurred, are allowable. Income generated from any of these activities will be offset against expenses.
15.
Exhibits.
Costs of exhibits relating specifically to the grant programs are allowable.
16.
Legal expenses.
The cost of legal expenses required in the administration of grant programs is allowable. Legal services furnished by the chief legal officer of a tribal government or his staff solely for the purpose of discharging his general responsibilities as legal officer are unallowable. Legal expenses for the prosecution of claims against the Federal Government are unallowable.
17.
Maintenance and repair.
Costs incurred for necessary maintenance, repair, or upkeep of property which neither add to the permanent value of the property nor appreciably prolong its intended life, but keep it in an efficient operating condition, are allowable.
18.
Materials and supplies.
The cost of materials and supplies necessary to carry out the grant programs is allowable. Purchases made specifically for the grant program should be charged thereto at their actual prices after deducting all cash discounts, trade discounts, rebates, and allowances received by the grantee. Withdrawals from general stores or stockrooms should be charged at cost under any recognized method of pricing consistently applied. Incoming transportation charges are a proper part of material cost.
19.
Memberships, subscriptions and professional activities.
a.
Memberships.
The cost of membership in civic, business, technical and professional organizations is allowable provided: (1) The benefit from the membership is related to the grant program, (2) the expenditure is for agency membership, (3) the cost of the membership is reasonably related to the value of the services or benefits received, and (4) the expenditure is not for membership in an organization which devotes a substantial part of its activities to influencing legislation.
b.
Reference material.
The cost of books, and subscriptions to civic, business, professional, and technical periodicals is allowable when related to the grant program.
c.
Meetings and conferences.
Costs are allowable when the purpose of the meeting is the dissemination of technical information relating to the grant program and they are
consistent with regular practices followed for other activities of the grantee.
20.
Motor pools.
The costs of a service organization which provides automobiles to grantees at a mileage or fixed rate and/or provides vehicle maintenance, inspection and repair services are allowable.
21.
Payroll preparation.
The cost of preparing payrolls and maintaining necessary related wage records is allowable.
22.
Personnel administration.
Costs for the recruitment, examination, certification, classification, training, establishment of pay standards, and related activities for grant programs, are allowable.
23.
Printing and reproduction.
Cost for printing and reproduction services necessary for grant administration, including but not limited to forms, reports, manuals, and informational literature, are allowable. Publication costs of reports or other media relating to grant program accomplishments or results are allowable when provided for in the grant agreement.
24.
Procurement service.
The cost of procurement service, including solicitation of bids, preparation and award of contracts, and all phases of contract administration in providing goods, facilities and services for grant programs, is allowable.
25.
Taxes.
In general, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes which the grantee is legally required to pay are allowable.
26.
Training and education.
The cost of in-service training, customarily provided for employee development which directly or indirectly benefits grant programs is allowable. Out-of-service training involving extended periods of time is allowable only when specifically authorized by the Bureau.
27.
Transportation.
Costs incurred for freight, cartage, express, postage and other transportation costs relating either to goods purchased, delivered, or moved from one location to another are allowable.
28.
Travel.
Travel costs are allowable for expenses for transportation, lodging, subsistence, and related items incurred by employees who are in travel status on official business incident to a grant program. Such costs may be charged on an actual basis, on a per diem or mileage basis in lieu of actual costs incurred, or on a combination of the two, provided the method used is applied to an entire trip, and results in charges consistent with those normally allowed in like circumstances in non-Federally sponsored activities. The difference in cost between first-class air accommodations and less-than-first-class air accommodations is unallowable except when less-than-first-class air accommodations are not reasonably available.
C.
Costs allowable with approval of the Bureau.
1.
Automatic data processing.
The cost of data processing services to grant programs is allowable. This cost may include rental of equipment or depreciation on grantee-owned equipment. The acquisition of equipment, whether by outright purchase, rental-purchase agreement or other method of purchase, is allowable only upon specific prior approval of the Bureau as provided under the selected item for capital expenditures. The Bureau must obtain required Departmental clearances before such approval can be given.
2.
Building space and related facilities.
The cost of space in privately or publicly owned buildings used for the benefit of the grant program is allowable subject to the conditions stated below. The total cost of space, whether in a privately or publicly owned building, may not exceed the rental cost of comparable space and facilities in a privately owned building in the same locality. The cost of space procured for grant program usage may not be charged to the program for periods of nonoccupancy, without authorization of the Bureau.
a.
Rental cost.
The rental cost of space in a privately owned building is allowable.
b.
Maintenance and operation.
The cost of utilities, insurance, security, janitorial services, elevator service, upkeep of grounds, normal repairs and alterations and the like, are allowable to the extent they are not otherwise included in rental or other charges for space.
c.
Rearrangements and alterations.
Cost incurred for rearrangement and alteration of facilities required specifically for the grant program or those that materially increase the value or useful life of the facilities (section C.3.) are allowable when specifically approved by the Bureau.
d.
Depreciation and use allowances on publicly owned buildings.
These costs are allowable as provided in section B.11.
e.
Occupancy of space under rental-purchase or a lease with option-to-purchase agreement.
The cost of space procured under such arrangements is allowable when specifically approved by the Bureau.
3.
Capital expenditures.
The cost of facilities, equipment, other capital assets, and repairs which materially increase the value or useful life of capital assets is allowable when such procurement is specifically approved by the Bureau. When assets acquired with Bureau grant funds are (a) sold, (b) no longer available for use in a Federally sponsored program or (c) used for purposes not authorized by the Bureau, the Bureau's equity in the asset will be refunded in the same proportion as Bureau participation in its cost. In case any assets are traded on new items, only the net cost of the newly acquired assets is allowable.
4.
Insurance and indemnification.
a. Costs of insurance required, or approved and maintained pursuant to the grant agreement, is allowable.
b. Costs of other insurance in connection with the general conduct of activities is allowable subject to the following limitations:
(1) Types and extent and cost of coverage will be in accordance with sound business practice.
(2) Costs of insurance or of contributions to any reserve covering the risk of loss of, or damage to, Federal Government property is unallowable except to the extent that the Bureau has specifically required or approved such costs.
c. Contributions to a reserve for a self-insurance program approved by the Bureau are allowable to the extent that the type of coverage, extent of coverage, and the rates and premiums would have been allowed had insurance been purchased to cover the risks.
d. Actual losses which could have been covered by permissible insurance (through an approved self-insurance program or otherwise) are unallowable unless expressly provided for in the grant agreement. However, costs incurred because of losses not covered under nominal deductible insurance coverage provided in keeping with sound management practice, and minor losses not covered by insurance, such as spoilage, breakage and disappearance of small hand tools which occur in the ordinary course of operations, are available.
e.
Indemnification
includes securing the grantee against liabilities to third persons and other losses not compensated by insurance or otherwise. The Bureau is obligated to indemnify the grantee only to the extent expressly provided for in the grant agreement, except as provided in d. above.
5.
Management studies.
The cost of management studies to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of grant management for ongoing programs is allowable except that the cost of studies performed by agencies other than the grantee or outside consultants is allowable only when authorized by the Bureau.
6.
Preagreement costs.
Costs incurred prior to the effective date of the grant, whether or not they would have been allowable thereunder if incurred after such date, are allowable when specifically provided for in the grant agreement.
7.
Professional services.
Cost of professional services rendered by individuals or organizations not a part of the grantee is allowable subject to such prior authorization as may be required by the Bureau.
8.
Proposal costs.
Costs of preparing proposals on potential Federal Government grant agreements are allowable when specifically provided for in the grant agreement.
9.
Tribal government officer salaries and expenses.
Identifiable salary and expense costs incurred as a direct result of a tribal government officer's service to a grant program provided under this chapter are allowable subject to advance agreement with an approval by the Bureau. A general limitation in this regard is prescribed in section D.6.
D.
Unallowable costs.
1.
Bad debts.
Any losses arising from uncollectible accounts and other claims, and related costs, are unallowable.
2.
Contingencies.
Contributions to a contingency reserve or any similar provision for unforeseen events are unallowable.
3.
Contributions and donations.
Unallowable.
4.
Entertainments.
Costs of amusements, social activities, and incidental costs relating thereto, such as meals, beverages, lodgings, rentals, transportation, and gratuities, are unallowable.
5.
Fines and penalties.
Costs resulting from violations of, or failure to comply with Federal, State and local laws and regulations are unallowable.
6.
Tribal officer salaries and expenses.
The salaries and expenses of tribal government officers are considered a cost of general tribal government and are unallowable except as prescribed in section C.9.
7.
Interest and other financial costs.
Interest on borrowing (however requested), bond discounts, cost of financing and refinancing operations, and legal and professional fees paid in connection therewith, are unallowable except when authorized by Federal legislation.
8.
Underrecovery of costs under grant agreements.
Any excess of cost over the Federal contribution under one grant agreement is unallowable under other grant agreements.
Pt. 276, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 276—Financial Reporting Requirements
A.
Purpose and scope.
This appendix prescribes requirements for grantee to report financial information to the Bureau and to request advances and reimbursement when a letter-of-credit method is not used.
B.
Definitions.
1.
Accrued expenditures.
Accrued expenditures are the charges incurred by the grantee during a given period requiring the provision of funds for: (1) Goods and other tangible property received; (2) services performed by employes, contractors, subgrantees, and other payees; and (3) amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performed are required.
2.
Accrued income.
Accrued income is the earnings during a given period which is a source of funds resulting from: (1) Services performed by the grantee; (2) goods and other tangible property delivered to purchasers; and (3) amounts becoming owed to the grantee for which no current services or performance are required by the grantee.
3.
Disbursements.
Disbursements are payments in cash or by check.
4.
Bureau funds authorized.
Funds authorized represent the total amount of the Bureau funds authorized for obligations and establish the ceilings for obligation of Bureau funds. This amount may include any authorized carryover of unobligated funds from prior fiscal years.
5.
Obligations.
Obligations are the amounts of orders placed, contracts and grants awarded, services received, and similar transactions during a given period, which will require payment during the same or a future period.
6.
Outlays.
Outlays represent charges made to the grant project or program. Outlays can be reported on a cash or accrued expenditure basis.
7.
Program income.
Program income represents earnings by the grantee realized from the grant-supported activities. Such earnings exclude interest income and may include, but will not be limited to, income from service fees, sale of commodities, usage or rental fees, sale of assets purchased with grant funds, and royalties on patents and copy-rights. Program income can be reported on a cash or accrued income basis.
8.
Unobligated balance.
The unobligated balance is the portion of the funds authorized by the Bureau which has not been obligated by the grantee and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the funds authorized.
9.
Unpaid obligations.
Unpaid obligations represent the amout of obligations incurred by the grantee which have not been paid.
C.
Standard forms.
1. Only the following forms will be authorized for obtaining financial information from grantees for grant programs:
a.
Financial Status Report.
(1) The Bureau shall require grantees to use a standard Financial Status Report to report the status of funds for all nonconstruction grant programs. The Bureau may, however, have the option of not requiring a Federal Status Report when a request for advance or reimbursement (paragraph 2a) is determined to provide adequate information to meet their needs, except that a final Financial Status Report shall be required at the completion of the grant when the Request for Advance or Reimbursement form is used only for advances.
(2) The Bureau shall prescribe whether the report shall be on a cash or accrual basis. If the Bureau requires accrual information and the grantee's accouting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the grantee should develop such information through an analysis of the documentation on hand or on the basis of best estimates.
(3) The grant agreement shall determine the frequency of the Financial Status Report for each grant program considering the size and complexity of the particular program. However, the report shall not be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually. Also, a final report shall be required at the completion of the grant.
(4) The original and two copies of the Financial Status Report shall be submitted 30 days after the end of each specified reporting period. In addition, final reports shall be submitted 90 days after the end of the grant period or the completion of the project or program. Extensions to reporting due dates may be approved when requested by the grantee.
b.
Report of federal cash transactions.
(1) When funds are advanced to grantees through letters of credit or with Treasury checks, each grantee shall submit a report of Federal Cash Transactions. The Bureau shall use this report to monitor cash advanced to grantees and to obtain disbursement or outlay information for each grant or project from the grantees.
(2) The grant agreement may require forecasts of Federal cash requirement in the Remarks section of the report.
(3) When practical and deemed necessary, the Bureau may require grantees to report in the Remarks section the amount of cash in excess of three days' requirements in the hands of subgrantees or other secondary recipients and to provide short narrative explanations of actions taken by the grantees to reduce the excess balances.
(4) The Bureau shall accept the identical information from the grantees in a machine-usable format in lieu of the Report of Federal Cash Transactions.
(5) Grantees shall submit the original and two copies of the Report of Federal Cash Transactions no later than 15 working days following the end of each quarter. For those grantees receiving annual grants totalling one million dollars or more, the Bureau shall require a monthly report.
(6) The Bureau shall waive the requirement for submission of a Report of Federal Cash Transactions when monthly advances do not exceed $10,000 per grantee provided that such advances are monitored through other forms contained in this appendix or the grantee's accounting controls are adequate to minimize excessive Federal advances.
2. Except as noted below, only the following forms will be authorized for the grantees in requesting advances and reimbursements.
a.
Request for advance or reimbursement.
(1) The “Request for Advance or Reimbursement” form is the standard form for all nonconstruction grant programs when letters of credit or predetermined automatic advance methods are not used. The Bureau, however, has the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of an “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs” (paragraph 2b) and shall specify in the grant agreement.
(2) Grantees shall be authorized to submit requests for advances or reimbursement at least monthly when letters of credit are not used. Grantees shall submit the original and two copies of a Request for Advance or Reimbursement.
b.
Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Program.
(1) The “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs” form is the standard format to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. The Bureau may, however, have the option of substituting a “Request for Advance or Reimbursement” form (paragraph 2a) in lieu of this form when the Bureau determines that the former provides adequate information to meet its needs as stated in the grant agreement.
(2) Grantees shall be authorized to submit requests for reimbursement at least monthly when letters of credit are not used. Grantees shall submit the original and two copies of an “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs” form.
3. When the Bureau needs additional information in using these forms, the following shall be observed:
a. When necessary to comply with future legislative requirements, the Bureau shall issue instructions to require grantees to submit such information under the Remarks section of the reports.
b. When necessary to meet specific program needs, the Bureau shall submit the proposed reporting requirements to the General Services Administration for approval under the exception provision of this appendix.
c. The Bureau, in obtaining information as in paragraphs a and b above, must also comply with report clearance requirements of the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-40, as revised.
[40 FR 51316, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 5099, Feb. 4, 1976; 43 FR 37447, Aug. 23, 1978]

# SUBCHAPTER N—ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
Pt. 286

# PART 286—INDIAN BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
286.1
Definitions.
286.2
Purpose.
286.3
Eligible applicants.
286.4
Eligible economic enterprises.
286.5
Information collection.
286.6
[Reserved]
286.7
Location of enterprise.
286.8
Priority criteria.
286.9
Environmental and flood disaster protection.
286.10
Preservation of historical and archeological data.
286.11
Management and technical assistance.
286.12
Content of application.
286.13-286.14
[Reserved]
286.15
Application procedures.
286.16
Grant approval authority.
286.17
Grant limitations and requirements.
286.18
Written notice.
286.19
[Reserved]
286.20
Disbursement of grant funds.
286.21
Return of unused funds.
286.22
Reports.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 1524.

# Source:
39 FR 44748, Dec. 27, 1974, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13328, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 286.1
Definitions.
As used in this part 286:
Area Director
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of an area office or his authorized representative.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs of the United States Department of the Interior or the official in the Bureau of Indian Affairs to whom the Assistant Secretary has delegated authority to act on behalf of the Assistant Secretary.
Cooperative Association
means an association of individuals organized pursuant to state, Federal, or tribal law, for the purpose of owning and operating an economic enterprise for profit with profits distributed or allocated to patrons who are members of the organization.
Corporation
means an entity organized pursuant to state, Federal, or tribal law, with or without stock, for the purpose of owning and operating an economic enterprise.
Economic enterprise
means any Indian-owned, commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, provided that eligible Indian ownership constitutes not less than 51 per centum of the enterprise.
Grantee(s)
means the recipient(s) of a nonreimburseable grant under this part.
Indian
means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe or a person of Alaska Native descent who is a shareholder in a corporation organized under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended.
Partnership
means a form of business organization in which two or more legal persons are associated as co-owners for the purposes of business or professional activities for private pecuniary gain.
Profits
means the net income earned after deducting operating expenses from operating revenues.
Reservation
means Indian reservation, California rancheria, public domain Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, and land held by Alaska Native groups incorporated under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Superintendent
means the Bureau official in charge of a Bureau agency office or other local office reporting to an Area Director.
Tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or any regional, village, urban or group corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) as amended, which is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
[55 FR 36273, Sept. 5, 1990]
§ 286.2
Purpose.
The purpose of this part 286 is to prescribe the regulations and procedures under which non-reimbursable grants may be made to eligible applicants to stimulate and increase Indian entrepreneurship and employment through establishment, acquisition or expansion of profit-making Indian-owned economic enterprises which will contribute to the economy of a reservation.
§ 286.3
Eligible applicants.
Applications for grants may be accepted only from individual Indians, Indian tribes, Indian partnerships, corporations or cooperative associations authorized to do business under State, Federal, or Tribal law. These applicants must have a form of organization acceptable to the Assistant Secretary and unable to meet their total financing needs from their own resources and by loans from other sources such as banks, Farmers Home Administration, Small Business Administration, Production Credit Associations, and Federal Land Banks. Associations, corporations or partnerships shall be at least fifty-one percent owned by eligible Indians or an eligible Indian tribe. This Indian ownership must actively participate in the management and operation of the economic enterprise by representation on the board of directors of a corporation or cooperative association proportionate to the Indian ownership which will enable the Indian owner(s) to control management decisions. The legal organization documents will provide for the number of Indians which are to be on the board of directors, how they along with other directors will be elected or appointed and qualifications required as a condition for becoming a member of the board of directors. The legal organization documents shall provide safeguards which will prevent Indian ownership and control from decreasing below fifty-one percent. Evidence of Indian ownership in a cooperative association or corporation will be evidenced by stock ownership, if stock is or has been issued, or by other evidence satisfactory to the Assistant Secretary. Partnerships will be evidenced by written partnership agreements which show the percentage of Indian ownership, role and authority in making management decisions in controlling the operation of the economic enterprise.
§ 286.4
Eligible economic enterprises.
An economic enterprise as defined in § 286.1(k) is eligible to receive equity capital through non-reimbursable grants if it is or will be self-sustaining and profit-oriented and will create employment for Indians. In the case of Indian-owned cooperative associations, they must distribute or allocate profits for later distribution, to members who are patrons, unless prohibited from doing so by law.
§ 286.5
Information collection.
(a) The collections of information contained in §§ 286.12 and 286.22 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0093. The information will be used to rate applicants in accordance with the priority criteria listed at 25 CFR 286.8. Response to this request is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1521.
(b) Public reporting for this information is estimated to average 45 minutes per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Mailstop 337-SIB, 18th and C Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1076-0093), Washington, DC 20503.
[55 FR 36273, Sept. 5, 1990]
§ 286.6
[Reserved]
§ 286.7
Location of enterprise.
To be eligible for a grant an economic enterprise must be located on an Indian reservation or located where it makes or will make an economic contribution to a nearby reservation by
providing employment to tribal members residing thereon or by expending a portion of its income for materials or services on the reservation. Economic enterprises which are or will be operated on a reservation must comply with the requirements of applicable rules, resolutions or ordinances adopted by the governing body of the tribe, if applicable.
§ 286.8
Priority criteria.
The following priority will be used in selecting economic enterprises for grant funding:
(a)
First priority.
First priority will be given to economic enterprises located on a reservation that will:
(1) Utilize Indian resources, both natural and human.
(2) Create the highest ratio of Indian jobs to the total amount of dollars to be invested, including market value of materials and equipment contributed to the project.
(3) Create the highest ratio of income to a tribe or its members in relation to the total amount of dollars to be invested, including market value of materials or equipment contributed to the project.
(4) Generate the most non-Bureau financing.
(b)
Second priority.
Second priority will be given to projects located in the immediate vicinity of a reservation that will:
(1) Utilize Indian resources, both natural and human.
(2) Create the highest ratio of Indian jobs to the total amount of dollars to be invested, including market value of materials and equipment contributed to the project.
(3) Generate the most non-Bureau financing.
§ 286.9
Environmental and flood disaster protection.
Grant funds will not be advanced until there is assurance of compliance with any applicable provisions of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234), the National Environmental Policy Act (Pub. L. 91-190), 42 U.S.C. 4321 and Executive Order 11514.
§ 286.10
Preservation of historical and archeological data.
The Assistant Secretary before approving a grant where the grant funds and/or the loan funds will be used to finance activities involving excavations, road construction, and land development or involving the disturbance of land on known or reported historical or archeological sites, will take appropriate action to assure compliance with applicable provisions of the Act of June 27, 1960 (74 Stat. 220 (16 U.S.C. 469)), as amended by the Act of May 24, 1974 (Pub. L. 93-291, 88 Stat. 174), relating to the preservation of historical and archeological data.
§ 286.11
Management and technical assistance.
(a) Prior to and concurrent with the making of a grant to finance an Indian economic enterprise, the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs will insure that competent management and technical assistance is available to the grantee in the preparation of the application for a grant and/or administration of the funds granted, consistent with the grantee's knowledge and experience and the nature and complexity of the economic enterprise being financed. The competence of the management and technical assistance provided will be determined by the local agency superintendent after consultation with the applicant concerning his business needs.
(b) The lender providing the loan funds under § 286.17(b) to finance an economic enterprise will include with the grantee's application the need for equity capital, the lender's evaluation of the applicant's need for management and technical assistance, specific areas of need and whether the lender will provide such assistance to the applicant.
[39 FR 44748, Dec. 27, 1974. Redesignated at 47 FR 13328, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 36274, Sept. 5, 1990]
§ 286.12
Content of application.
Applications shall be on a form prescribed by the Assistant Secretary which shall at the minimum include:
(a) Total capital requirement, including operating capital required until such time as the cash generated from
operations will be sufficient to make the enterprise self-sustaining.
(b) Amount of total financing required as well as what is obtainable from other sources, including the applicant's personal resources, and a statement of terms and conditions under which any borrowed portion is obtainable.
(c) Capital deficiency, which will be the basis for the amount of grant requested.
(d) Pro forma balance sheets and operating statements showing estimated expenses, income and net profit from operations for three years following receipt of the requested grant.
(e) Annual operating statements and balance sheets, audited if available, for the prior two years or applicable years for enterprises already in operation.
(f) Current financial statements, consisting of a balance sheet and operating statement.
(g) A plan of operation which shall be acceptable to the lender making the loan and the Assistant Secretary.
§§ 286.13-286.14
[Reserved]
§ 286.15
Application procedures.
Applications are to be submitted to the Superintendent having administrative jurisdiction over the reservation on which an enterprise will be or is located. If the enterprise site is near two or more reservations, application is to be made to the Superintendent having administrative jurisdiction over the reservation nearest to the location of the enterprise which the enterprise will benefit economically.
§ 286.16
Grant approval authority.
Applications for grants require approval by the Assistant Secretary.
§ 286.17
Grant limitations and requirements.
(a) Grants will be made to assist in establishing new economic enterprises, or in purchasing or expanding established ones. However, a grant may be made only when in the opinion of the Assistant Secretary the applicant is unable to obtain adequate financing from other sources. Prior to making any grant, the Assistant Secretary shall assure that, to the extent practical, the applicant's own resources have been invested in the proposed project. The applicant shall not be required to invest own resources to the extent that they are already committed to endeavors deemed by the Assistant Secretary to be essential to the welfare of the applicant. If the information in an application, which must include personal financial statements, indicates that it may be possible for the applicant to obtain financing without a grant, the Assistant Secretary will require the applicant to furnish letters from two customary lenders in the area, if available, who are making loans for similar purpose, showing whether or not they will make a loan to the applicant for the total financing needed without a grant.
(b) A grant may be made only to an applicant who is able to obtain at least 75 percent of the necessary financing from other sources.
(c) No grant in excess of $250,000 may be made to an Indian tribe or in excess of $100,000 to an Indian individual, partnership, corporation, or cooperative association.
(d) Revolving loan funds as prescribed in title I of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 and guaranteed or insured loans as prescribed in title II of said Act may not be used as the sources of the loan portion of the total financing requirement if financing from other governmental or institutional lenders is available on reasonable terms and conditions. If a loan is not available from other sources, guaranteed or insured loans under the provisions of title II of said Act may then be considered. If a guaranteed or insured loan is not available loans under the provisions of title I of said Act may then be considered. Applicants for a loan from either source must meet the eligibility requirements for such loans.
(e) A grant will not be approved unless there is assurance the applicant can and will be provided with needed competent technical and management assistance commensurate with the nature of the enterprise to be funded and the knowledge and management skills of the applicant.
(f) Grant funds may not be used for refinancing or debt consolidation unless approval is justified and required
due to the applicant's financial position and is clearly to the advantage of the grant applicant.
(g) Ordinarily, not more than one grant will be made for a project. Nevertheless, in certain circumstances a second grant may be made to applicants for a new project or expansion of the original project. An additional grant will not be approved for an economic enterprise previously funded under the provisions of title IV of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 except for expanding a successful enterprise, provided the total of grants made shall not exceed $250,000 to an Indian tribe and $100,000 to an Indian individual, partnership, corporation, or cooperative association.
(h) An application for a second grant will not be approved if the applicant:
(1) Has not complied with the reporting requirements in connection with the first grant, or
(2) Has not followed the plan of operation, if any, developed for the management and operation of the economic enterprise, or
(3) Did not follow and use the management and technical assistance furnished, or
(4) Is in violation of one or more provisions of the loan agreement entered into between the applicant and the lender who furnished the loan portion of the financing in connection with the first grant.
(i) An applicant for an expansion grant must meet the same eligibility requirements as an original applicant.
(j) A grantee will be required to return all or a portion of the grant if the business or enterprise for which the grant was utilized is sold within three years of the date on which the grant was disbursed to the grantee, unless the proceeds from the sale are re-invested in a new business or business expansion which will benefit the Indian reservation economy. Such sale and re-investment must have the prior approval of the local agency superintendent. The grantee shall refund the lessor of the grant amount or a pro rata portion of sales proceeds. The pro rata portion of sales proceeds shall be based on the ratio of grant amount to its corresponding matching financing. The new business or business expansion utilizing such sale proceeds must meet the same criteria for eligibility as an original grant.
[39 FR 44748, Dec. 27, 1974. Redesignated at 47 FR 13328, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 36274, Sept. 5, 1990; 56 FR 12436, Mar. 25, 1991]
§ 286.18
Written notice.
The applicant for a grant which is disapproved will be notified by letter, stating the reasons for disapproval and the right of appeal pursuant to 25 CFR 2. A copy of the letter will be sent to the prospective lender.
[39 FR 44748, Dec. 27, 1974. Redesignated at 47 FR 13328, Mar. 30, 1982; 48 FR 13414, Mar. 31, 1983]
§ 286.19
[Reserved]
§ 286.20
Disbursement of grant funds.
Unless otherwise provided by an agreement between a lender and the grantee, the Assistant Secretary may in his discretion advance grant funds directly to a grantee. He may require the funds to be deposited in a special account at the appropriate Agency headquarters office or deposited in a joint account in a bank and disbursed as needed by the grantee. The terms of a lender's loan agreement may require the lender's approval before disbursement of the funds. Grant funds will not be disbursed to a grantee until the Assistant Secretary has been informed by the lender that a loan has been approved for the grantee in the amount of the loan financing needed.
§ 286.21
Return of unused funds.
Grantees will be required to return unused grant funds to the Assistant Secretary if the economic enterprise for which the grant was approved is not initiated, i.e., lease obtained, if needed, construction started, equipment purchased or other, within the time stated in the grant agreement. The Assistant Secretary may, if warranted by circumstances beyond the control of the grantee, extend the time to allow for initiation of the enterprise, provided there is assurance the enterprise will be initiated forthwith within the extended time period. The Assistant Secretary will notify the lender in writing
of a proposed action to require the return of grant funds or of a proposal to extend the time.
§ 286.22
Reports.
(a) Grantees are required to furnish the Assistant Secretary comparative balance sheets and profit and loss statements semi-annually for the first two years of operation following receipt of the grant, and annually thereafter for the succeeding three years. These may be copied of financial statements required by and furnished to the lender which provided the loan portion of the total financing required. If the lender does not require financial statements, the grantee must prepare and furnish copies of comparative balance sheets and profit and loss statements to the Assistant Secretary.
(b) The Assistant Secretary will establish accounting and reporting systems which will appropriately show the status of the Indian Business Development Program at all times.
Pt. 290

# PART 290—TRIBAL REVENUE ALLOCATION PLANS
Sec.
290.1
Purpose.
290.2
Definitions.
290.3
Information collection.
290.4
What is a tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.5
Who approves tribal revenue allocation plans?
290.6
Who must submit a tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.7
Must an Indian tribe have a tribal revenue allocation plan if it is not making per capita payments?
290.8
Do Indian tribes have to make per capita payments from net gaming revenues to tribal members?
290.9
How may an Indian tribe use net gaming revenues if it does not have an approved tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.10
Is an Indian tribe in violation of IGRA if it makes per capita payments to its members from net gaming revenues without an approved tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.11
May an Indian tribe distribute per capita payments from net gaming revenues derived from either Class II or Class III gaming without a tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.12
What information must the tribal revenue allocation plan contain?
290.13
Under what conditions may an Indian tribe distribute per capita payments?
290.14
Who can share in a per capita payment?
290.15
Must the Indian tribe establish trust accounts with financial institutions for minors and legal incompetents?
290.16
Can the per capita payments of minors and legal incompetents be deposited into accounts held by BIA or OTFM?
290.17
What documents must the Indian tribe include with the tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.18
Where should the Indian tribe submit the tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.19
How long will the ABO take to review and approve the tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.20
When will the ABO disapprove a tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.21
May an Indian tribe appeal the ABO's decision?
290.22
How does the Indian tribe and its members ensure compliance with its tribal revenue allocation plan?
290.23
How does the Indian tribe resolve disputes arising from per capita payments to individual members or identified groups of members?
290.24
Do revisions/amendments to a tribal revenue allocation plan require approval?
290.25
What is the liability of the United States under this part?
290.26
Are previously approved tribal revenue allocation plans, revisions or amendments subject to review in accordance with 25 CFR part 290?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, and 2710.

# Source:
65 FR 14467, Mar. 17, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 290.1
Purpose.
This part contains procedures for submitting, reviewing, and approving tribal revenue allocation plans for distributing net gaming revenues from tribal gaming activities. It applies to review of tribal revenue allocation plans adopted under IGRA.
§ 290.2
Definitions.
Appropriate Bureau official
(ABO) means the Bureau official with delegated authority to approve tribal revenue allocation plans.
IGRA
means the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-497) 102 Stat. 2467 dated October 17, 1988, (Codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721(1988)) and any amendments.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians that the Secretary recognizes as:
(1) Eligible for the speci al programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; and
(2) Having powers of self-government.
Legal incompetent
means an individual who is eligible to participate in a per capita payment and who has been declared to be under a legal disability, other than being a minor, by a court of competent jurisdiction, including tribal justice systems or as established by the tribe.
Member of an Indian tribe
means an individual who meets the requirements established by applicable tribal law for enrollment in the tribe and—
(1) Is listed on the tribal rolls of that tribe if such rolls are kept or
(2) Is recognized as a member by the tribal governing body if tribal rolls are not kept.
Minor
means an individual who is eligible to participate in a per capita payment and who has not reached the age of 18 years.
Per capita payment
means the distribution of money or other thing of value to all members of the tribe, or to identified groups of members, which is paid directly from the net revenues of any tribal gaming activity. This definition does not apply to payments which have been set aside by the tribe for special purposes or programs, such as payments made for social welfare, medical assistance, education, housing or other similar, specifically identified needs.
Resolution
means the formal document in which the tribal governing body expresses its legislative will in accordance with applicable tribal law.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or his/her authorized representative.
Superintendent
means the official or other designated representative of the BIA in charge of the field office which has immediate administrative responsibility for the affairs of the tribe for which a tribal revenue allocation plan is prepared.
Tribal governing body
means the governing body of an Indian tribe recognized by the Secretary.
Tribal revenue allocation plan
or
allocation plan
means the document submitted by an Indian tribe that provides for distributing net gaming revenues.
You or your
means the Indian tribe.
§ 290.3
Information collection.
The information collection requirements contained in §§ 290.12, 290.17, 290.24 and 290.26 have been approved by the OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), and assigned clearance number 1076-0152.
§ 290.4
What is a tribal revenue allocation plan?
It is the document you must submit that describes how you will allocate net gaming revenues.
§ 290.5
Who approves tribal revenue allocation plans?
The ABO will review and approve tribal revenue allocation plans for compliance with IGRA.
§ 290.6
Who must submit a tribal revenue allocation plan?
Any Indian tribe that intends to make a per capita payment from net gaming revenues must submit one.
§ 290.7
Must an Indian tribe have a tribal revenue allocation plan if it is not making per capita payments?
No, if you do not make per capita payments, you do not need to submit a tribal revenue allocation plan.
§ 290.8
Do Indian tribes have to make per capita payments from net gaming revenues to tribal members?
No. You do not have to make per capita payments.
§ 290.9
How may an Indian tribe use net gaming revenues if it does not have an approved tribal revenue allocation plan?
Without an approved tribal revenue allocation plan, you may use net gaming revenues to fund tribal government operations or programs; to provide for the general welfare of your tribe and its members; to promote tribal economic development; to donate to charitable organizations; or to help fund operations of local government agencies.
§ 290.10
Is an Indian tribe in violation of IGRA if it makes per capita payments to its members from net gaming revenues without an approved tribal revenue allocation plan?
Yes, you are in violation of IGRA if you make per capita payments to your tribal members from net gaming revenues without an approved tribal revenue allocation plan. If you refuse to comply, the DOJ or NIGC may enforce the per capita requirements of IGRA.
§ 290.11
May an Indian tribe distribute per capita payments from net gaming revenues derived from either Class II or Class III gaming without a tribal revenue allocation plan?
No, IGRA requires that you have an approved tribal revenue allocation plan.
§ 290.12
What information must the tribal revenue allocation plan contain?
(a) You must prepare a tribal revenue allocation plan that includes a percentage breakdown of the uses for which you will allocate net gaming revenues. The percentage breakdown must total 100 percent.
(b) The tribal revenue allocation plan must meet the following criteria:
(1) It must reserve an adequate portion of net gaming revenues from the tribal gaming activity for one or more of the following purposes:
(i) To fund tribal government operations or programs;
(ii) To provide for the general welfare of the tribe or its members;
(iii) To promote tribal economic development;
(iv) To donate to charitable organizations; or
(v) To help fund operations of local government.
(2) It must contain detailed information to allow the ABO to determine that it complies with this section and IGRA particularly regarding funding for tribal governmental operations or programs and for promoting tribal economic development.
(3) It must protect and preserve the interests of minors and other legally incompetent persons who are entitled to receive per capita payments by:
(i) Ensuring that tribes make per capita payments for eligible minors or incompetents to the parents or legal guardians of these minors or incompetents at times and in such amounts as necessary for the health, education, or welfare of the minor or incompetent;
(ii) Establishing criteria for withdrawal of the funds, acceptable proof and/or receipts for accountability of the expenditure of the funds and the circumstances for denial of the withdrawal of the minors' and legal incompetents' per capita payments by the parent or legal guardian; and
(iii) Establishing a process, system, or forum for dispute resolution.
(4) It must describe how you will notify members of the tax liability for per capita payments and how you will withhold taxes for all recipients in accordance with IRS regulations in 26 CFR part 31.
(5) It must authorize the distribution of per capita payments to members according to specific eligibility requirements and must utilize or establish a tribal court system, forum or administrative process for resolution of disputes concerning the allocation of net gaming revenues and the distribution of per capita payments.
§ 290.13
Under what conditions may an Indian tribe distribute per capita payments?
You may make per capita payments only after the ABO approves your tribal revenue allocation plan.
§ 290.14
Who can share in a per capita payment?
(a) You must establish your own criteria for determining whether all members or identified groups of members are eligible for per capita payments.
(b) If the tribal revenue allocation plan calls for distributing per capita payments to an identified group of members rather than to all members, you must justify limiting this payment to the identified group of members. You must make sure that:
(1) The distinction between members eligible to receive payments and members ineligible to receive payments is reasonable and not arbitrary;
(2) The distinction does not discriminate or otherwise violate the Indian Civil Rights Act; and
(3) The justification complies with applicable tribal law.
§ 290.15
Must the Indian tribe establish trust accounts with financial institutions for minors and legal incompetents?
No. The tribe may establish trust accounts with financial institutions but should explore investment options to structure the accounts to the benefit of their members while ensuring compliance with IGRA and this part.
§ 290.16
Can the per capita payments of minors and legal incompetents be deposited into accounts held by BIA or OTFM?
No. The Secretary will not accept any deposits of payments or funds derived from net gaming revenues to any account held by BIA or OTFM.
§ 290.17
What documents must the Indian tribe include with the tribal revenue allocation plan?
You must include:
(a) A written request for approval of the tribal revenue allocation plan; and
(b) A tribal resolution or other document, including the date and place of adoption and the result of any vote taken, that certifies you have adopted the tribal revenue allocation plan in accordance with applicable tribal law.
§ 290.18
Where should the Indian tribe submit the tribal revenue allocation plan?
You must submit your tribal revenue allocation plan to your respective Superintendent. The Superintendent will review the tribal revenue allocation plan to make sure it has been properly adopted in accordance with applicable tribal law. The Superintendent will then transmit the tribal revenue allocation plan promptly to the ABO.
§ 290.19
How long will the ABO take to review and approve the tribal revenue allocation plan?
The ABO must review and act on your tribal revenue allocation plan within 60 days of receiving it. A tribal revenue allocation plan is not effective without the ABO's written approval.
(a) If the tribal revenue allocation plan conforms with this part and the IGRA, the ABO must approve it.
(b) If the tribal revenue allocation plan does not conform with this part and the IGRA, the ABO will send you a written notice that:
(1) Explains why the plan doesn't conform to this part of the IGRA; and
(2) Tells you how to bring the plan into conformance.
(c) If the ABO doesn't act within 60 days, you can appeal the inaction under 25 CFR part 2. A tribal revenue allocation plan is not effective without the express written approval of the ABO.
§ 290.20
When will the ABO disapprove a tribal revenue allocation plan?
The ABO will not approve any tribal revenue allocation plan for distribution of net gaming revenues from a tribal gaming activity if:
(a) The tribal revenue allocation plan is inadequate, particularly with respect to the requirements in § 290.12 and IGRA, and you fail to bring it into compliance;
(b) The tribal revenue allocation plan is not adopted in accordance with applicable tribal law;
(c) The tribal revenue allocation plan does not include a reasonable justification for limiting per capita payments to certain groups of members; or
(d) The tribal revenue allocation plan violates the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968, any other provision of Federal law, or the United States' trust obligations.
§ 290.21
May an Indian tribe appeal the ABO's decision?
Yes, you may appeal the ABO's decision in accordance with the regulations at 25 CFR part 2.
§ 290.22
How does the Indian tribe ensure compliance with its tribal revenue allocation plan?
You must utilize or establish a tribal court system, forum or administrative process in the tribal revenue allocation plan for reviewing expenditures of net gaming revenues and explain how you will correct deficiencies.
§ 290.23
How does the Indian tribe resolve disputes arising from per capita payments to individual members or identified groups of members?
You must utilize or establish a tribal court system, forum or administrative process for resolving disputes arising from the allocation of net gaming revenue and the distribution of per capita payments.
§ 290.24
Do revisions/amendments to a tribal revenue allocation plan require approval?
Yes, revisions/amendments to a tribal revenue allocation plan must be submitted to the ABO for approval to ensure that they comply with § 290.12 and IGRA.
§ 290.25
What is the liability of the United States under this part?
The United States is not liable for the manner in which a tribe distributes funds from net gaming revenues.
§ 290.26
Are previously approved tribal revenue allocation plans, revisions, or amendments subject to review in accordance with this part?
No. This part applies only to tribal revenue allocation plans, revisions, or amendments submitted for approval after April 17, 2000.
(a) If the ABO approved your tribal revenue allocation plan, revisions, or amendments before April 17, 2000, you need not resubmit it for approval.
(b) If you are amending or revising a previously approved allocation plan, you must submit the amended or revised plan to the ABO for review and approval under this part.
Pt. 291

# PART 291—CLASS III GAMING PROCEDURES
Sec.
291.1
Purpose and scope.
291.2
Definitions.
291.3
When may an Indian tribe ask the Secretary to issue Class III gaming procedures?
291.4
What must a proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures contain?
291.5
Where must the proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures be filed?
291.6
What must the Secretary do upon receiving a proposal?
291.7
What must the Secretary do if it has been determined that the Indian tribe is eligible to request Class III gaming procedures?
291.8
What must the Secretary do at the expiration of the 60-day comment period if the State has not submitted an alternative proposal?
291.9
What must the Secretary do at the end of the 60-day comment period if the State offers an alternative proposal for Class III gaming procedures?
291.10
What is the role of the mediator appointed by the Secretary?
291.11
What must the Secretary do upon receiving the proposal selected by the mediator?
291.12
Who will monitor and enforce tribal compliance with the Class III gaming procedures?
291.13
When do Class III gaming procedures for an Indian tribe become effective?
291.14
How can Class III gaming procedures issued by the Secretary be amended?
291.15
How long do Class III gaming procedures remain in effect?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. sections 2,9 and 2710.

# Source:
64 FR 17543, Apr. 12, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations in this part establish procedures that the Secretary will use to promulgate rules for the conduct of Class III Indian gaming when:
(a) A State and an Indian tribe are unable to voluntarily agree to a compact and;
(b) The State has asserted its immunity from suit brought by an Indian tribe under 25 U.S.C. 2710(d)(7)(B).
§ 291.2
Definitions.
(a) All terms have the same meaning as set forth in the definitional section of IGRA, 25 U.S.C. section 2703(1)-(10).
(b) The term “compact” includes renewal of an existing compact.
§ 291.3
When may an Indian tribe ask the Secretary to issue Class III gaming procedures?
An Indian tribe may ask the Secretary to issue Class III gaming procedures when the following steps have taken place:
(a) The Indian tribe submitted a written request to the State to enter into negotiations to establish a Tribal-State compact governing the conduct of Class III gaming activities;
(b) The State and the Indian tribe failed to negotiate a compact 180 days after the State received the Indian tribe's request;
(c) The Indian tribe initiated a cause of action in Federal district court against the State alleging that the State did not respond, or did not respond in good faith, to the request of the Indian tribe to negotiate such a compact;
(d) The State raised an Eleventh Amendment defense to the tribal action; and
(e) The Federal district court dismissed the action due to the State's sovereign immunity under the Eleventh Amendment.
§ 291.4
What must a proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures contain?
A proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures must include the following information:
(a) The full name, address, and telephone number of the Indian tribe submitting the proposal;
(b) A copy of the authorizing resolution from the Indian tribe submitting the proposal;
(c) A copy of the Indian tribe's gaming ordinance or resolution approved by the NIGC in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 2710, if any;
(d) A copy of the Indian tribe's organic documents, if any;
(e) A copy of the Indian tribe's written request to the State to enter into compact negotiations, along with the Indian tribe's proposed compact, if any;
(f) A copy of the State's response to the tribal request and/or proposed compact, if any;
(g) A copy of the tribe's Complaint (with attached exhibits, if any); the State's Motion to Dismiss; any Response by the tribe to the State's Motion to Dismiss; any Opinion or other written documents from the court regarding the State's Motion to Dismiss; and the Court's Order of dismissal;
(h) The Indian tribe's factual and legal authority for the scope of gaming specified in paragraph (j)(13) of this section;
(i) Regulatory scheme for the State's oversight role, if any, in monitoring and enforcing compliance; and
(j) Proposed procedures under which the Indian tribe will conduct Class III gaming activities, including:
(1) A certification that the tribe's accounting procedures are maintained in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Standards for Audits of Casinos, including maintenance of books and records in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable NIGC regulations;
(2) A reporting system for the payment of taxes and fees in a timely manner and in compliance with Internal Revenue Code and Bank Secrecy Act requirements;
(3) Preparation of financial statements covering all financial activities of the Indian tribe's gaming operations;
(4) Internal control standards designed to ensure fiscal integrity of gaming operations as set forth in 25 CFR Part 542;
(5) Provisions for records retention, maintenance, and accessibility;
(6) Conduct of games, including patron requirements, posting of game rules, and hours of operation;
(7) Procedures to protect the integrity of the rules for playing games;
(8) Rules governing employees of the gaming operation, including code of conduct, age requirements, conflict of interest provisions, licensing requirements, and such background investigations of all management officials and key employees as are required by IGRA, NIGC regulations, and applicable tribal gaming laws;
(9) Policies and procedures that protect the health and safety of patrons and employees and that address insurance and liability issues, as well as safety systems for fire and emergency services at all gaming locations;
(10) Surveillance procedures and security personnel and systems capable of monitoring movement of cash and chips, entrances and exits of gaming facilities, and other critical areas of any gaming facility;
(11) An administrative and/or tribal judicial process to resolve disputes between gaming establishment, employees and patrons, including a process to protect the rights of individuals injured on gaming premises by reason of
negligence in the operation of the facility;
(12) Hearing procedures for licensing purposes;
(13) A list of gaming activities proposed to be offered by the Indian tribe at its gaming facilities;
(14) A description of the location of proposed gaming facilities;
(15) A copy of the Indian tribe's liquor ordinance approved by the Secretary if intoxicants, as used in 18 U.S.C. 1154, will be served in the gaming facility;
(16) Provisions for a tribal regulatory gaming entity, independent of gaming management;
(17) Provisions for tribal enforcement and investigatory mechanisms, including the imposition of sanctions, monetary penalties, closure, and an administrative appeal process relating to enforcement and investigatory actions;
(18) The length of time the procedures will remain in effect; and
(19) Any other provisions deemed necessary by the Indian tribe.
§ 291.5
Where must the proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures be filed?
Any proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures must be filed with the Director, Indian Gaming Management Staff, Bureau of Indian Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior, MS 2070-MIB, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
§ 291.6
What must the Secretary do upon receiving a proposal?
Upon receipt of a proposal requesting Class III gaming procedures, the Secretary must:
(a) Within 15 days, notify the Indian tribe in writing that the proposal has been received, and whether any information required under § 291.4 is missing;
(b) Within 30 days of receiving a complete proposal, notify the Indian tribe in writing whether the Indian tribe meets the eligibility requirements in § 291.3. The Secretary's eligibility determination is final for the Department.
§ 291.7
What must the Secretary do if it has been determined that the Indian tribe is eligible to request Class III gaming procedures?
(a) If the Secretary determines that the Indian tribe is eligible to request Class III gaming procedures and that the Indian tribe's proposal is complete, the Secretary must submit the Indian tribe's proposal to the Governor and the Attorney General of the State where the gaming is proposed.
(b) The Governor and Attorney General will have 60 days to comment on:
(1) Whether the State is in agreement with the Indian tribe's proposal;
(2) Whether the proposal is consistent with relevant provisions of the laws of the State;
(3) Whether contemplated gaming activities are permitted in the State for any purposes, by any person, organization, or entity.
(c) The Secretary will also invite the State's Governor and Attorney General to submit an alternative proposal to the Indian tribe's proposed Class III gaming procedures.
§ 291.8
What must the Secretary do at the expiration of the 60-day comment period if the State has not submitted an alternative proposal?
(a) Upon expiration of the 60-day comment period specified in § 291.7, if the State has not submitted an alternative proposal, the Secretary must review the Indian tribe's proposal to determine:
(1) Whether all requirements of § 291.4 are adequately addressed;
(2) Whether Class III gaming activities will be conducted on Indian lands over which the Indian tribe has jurisdiction;
(3) Whether contemplated gaming activities are permitted in the State for any purposes by any person, organization, or entity;
(4) Whether the proposal is consistent with relevant provisions of the laws of the State;
(5) Whether the proposal is consistent with the trust obligations of the United States to the Indian tribe;
(6) Whether the proposal is consistent with all applicable provisions of IGRA; and
(7) Whether the proposal is consistent with provisions of other applicable Federal laws.
(b) Within 60 days of the expiration of the 60-day comment period in § 291.7, the Secretary must notify the Indian tribe, the Governor, and the Attorney General of the State in writing that he/she has:
(1) Approved the proposal if the Secretary determines that there are no objections to the Indian tribe's proposal; or
(2) Identified unresolved issues and areas of disagreements in the proposal, and invite the Indian tribe, the Governor and the Attorney General to participate in an informal conference, within 30 days of notification unless the parties agree otherwise, to resolve identified unresolved issues and areas of disagreement.
(c) Within 30 days of the informal conference, the Secretary must prepare and mail to the Indian tribe, the Governor and the Attorney General:
(1) A written report that summarizes the results of the informal conference; and
(2) A final decision either setting forth the Secretary's proposed Class III gaming procedures for the Indian tribe, or disapproving the proposal for any of the reasons in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 291.9
What must the Secretary do at the end of the 60-day comment period if the State offers an alternative proposal for Class III gaming procedures?
Within 30 days of receiving the State's alternative proposal, the Secretary must appoint a mediator who:
(a) Has no official, financial, or personal conflict of interest with respect to the issues in controversy; and
(b) Must convene a process to resolve differences between the two proposals.
§ 291.10
What is the role of the mediator appointed by the Secretary?
(a) The mediator must ask the Indian tribe and the State to submit their last best proposal for Class III gaming procedures.
(b) After giving the Indian tribe and the State an opportunity to be heard and present information supporting their respective positions, the mediator must select from the two proposals the one that best comports with the terms of IGRA and any other applicable Federal law. The mediator must submit the proposal selected to the Indian tribe, the State, and the Secretary.
§ 291.11
What must the Secretary do upon receiving the proposal selected by the mediator?
Within 60 days of receiving the proposal selected by the mediator, the Secretary must do one of the following:
(a) Notify the Indian tribe, the Governor and the Attorney General in writing of his/her decision to approve the proposal for Class III gaming procedures selected by the mediator; or
(b) Notify the Indian tribe, the Governor and the Attorney General in writing of his/her decision to disapprove the proposal selected by the mediator for any of the following reasons:
(1) The requirements of § 291.4 are not adequately addressed;
(2) Gaming activities would not be conducted on Indian lands over which the Indian tribe has jurisdiction;
(3) Contemplated gaming activities are not permitted in the State for any purpose by any person, organization, or entity;
(4) The proposal is not consistent with relevant provisions of the laws of the State;
(5) The proposal is not consistent with the trust obligations of the United States to the Indian tribe;
(6) The proposal is not consistent with applicable provisions of IGRA; or
(7) The proposal is not consistent with provisions of other applicable Federal laws.
(c) If the Secretary rejects the mediator's proposal under paragraph (b) of this section, he/she must prescribe appropriate procedures within 60 days under which Class III gaming may take place that comport with the mediator's selected proposal as much as possible, the provisions of IGRA, and the relevant provisions of the laws of the State.
§ 291.12
Who will monitor and enforce tribal compliance with the Class III gaming procedures?
The Indian tribe and the State may have an agreement regarding monitoring and enforcement of tribal compliance with the Indian tribe's Class III gaming procedures. In addition, under existing law, the NIGC will monitor and enforce tribal compliance with the Indian tribe's Class III gaming procedures.
§ 291.13
When do Class III gaming procedures for an Indian tribe become effective?
Upon approval of Class III gaming procedures for the Indian tribe under either § 291.8(b), § 291.8(c), or § 291.11(a), the Indian tribe shall have 90 days in which to approve and execute the Secretarial procedures and forward its approval and execution to the Secretary, who shall publish notice of their approval in the
Federal Register.
The procedures take effect upon their publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 291.14
How can Class III gaming procedures approved by the Secretary be amended?
An Indian tribe may ask the Secretary to amend approved Class III gaming procedures by submitting an amendment proposal to the Secretary. The Secretary must review the proposal by following the approval process for initial tribal proposals, except that the requirements of § 291.3 are not applicable and he/she may waive the requirements of § 291.4 to the extent they do not apply to the amendment request.
§ 291.15
How long do Class III gaming procedures remain in effect?
Class III gaming procedures remain in effect for the duration specified in the procedures or until amended pursuant to § 291.14.
Pt. 292

# PART 292—GAMING ON TRUST LANDS ACQUIRED AFTER OCTOBER 17, 1988

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
292.1
What is the purpose of this part?
292.2
How are key terms defined in this part?

# Subpart B—Exceptions to Prohibition on Gaming on Newly Acquired Lands
292.3
How does a tribe seek an opinion on whether its newly acquired lands meet, or will meet, one of the exceptions in this subpart?
292.4
What criteria must newly acquired lands meet under the exceptions regarding tribes with and without a reservation?

# Settlement of a Land Claim” Exception
292.5
When can gaming occur on newly acquired lands under a settlement of a land claim?

# “Initial Reservation” Exception
292.6
What must be demonstrated to meet the “initial reservation” exception?

# Restored Lands” Exception
292.7
What must be demonstrated to meet the “restored lands” exception?
292.8
How does a tribe qualify as having been federally recognized?
292.9
How does a tribe show that it lost its government-to-government relationship?
292.10
How does a tribe qualify as having been restored to Federal recognition?
292.11
What are “restored lands”?
292.12
How does a tribe establish its connection to newly acquired lands for the purposes of the “restored lands” exception?

# Subpart C—Secretarial Determination and Governor's Concurrence
292.13
When can a tribe conduct gaming activities on newly acquired lands that do not qualify under one of the exceptions in subpart B of this part?
292.14
Where must a tribe file an application for a Secretarial Determination?
292.15
May a tribe apply for a Secretarial Determination for lands not yet held in trust?

# Application Contents
292.16
What must an application for a Secretarial Determination contain?
292.17
How must an application describe the benefits and impacts of a proposed gaming establishment to the tribe and its members?
292.18
What information must an application contain on detrimental impacts to the surrounding community?

# Consultation
292.19
How will the Regional Director conduct the consultation process?
292.20
What information must the consultation letter include?

# Evaluation and Concurrence
292.21
How will the Secretary evaluate a proposed gaming establishment?
292.22
How does the Secretary request the Governor's concurrence?
292.23
What happens if the Governor does not affirmatively concur with the Secretarial Determination?
292.24
Can the public review the Secretarial Determination?

# Information Collection
292.25
Do information collections in this part have Office of Management and Budget approval?

# Subpart D—Effect of Regulations
292.26
What effect do these regulations have on pending applications, final agency decisions and opinions already issued?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 2719, 43 U.S.C. 1457.

# Source:
73 FR 29375, May 20, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 292.1
What is the purpose of this part?
The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (IGRA) contains several exceptions under which class II or class III gaming may occur on lands acquired by the United States in trust for an Indian tribe after October 17, 1988, if other applicable requirements of IGRA are met. This part contains procedures that the Department of the Interior will use to determine whether these exceptions apply.
§ 292.2
How are key terms defined in this part?
For purposes of this part, all terms have the same meaning as set forth in the definitional section of IGRA, 25 U.S.C. 2703. In addition, the following terms have the meanings given in this section.
Appropriate State and local officials
means the Governor of the State and local government officials within a 25-mile radius of the proposed gaming establishment.
BIA
means Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Contiguous
means two parcels of land having a common boundary notwithstanding the existence of non-navigable waters or a public road or right-of-way and includes parcels that touch at a point.
Former reservation
means lands in Oklahoma that are within the exterior boundaries of the last reservation that was established by treaty, Executive Order, or Secretarial Order for an Oklahoma tribe.
IGRA
means the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, as amended and codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721.
Indian tribe or tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians that is recognized by the Secretary as having a government-to-government relationship with the United States and is eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, as evidenced by inclusion of the tribe on the list of recognized tribes published by the Secretary under 25 U.S.C. 479a-1.
Land claim
means any claim by a tribe concerning the impairment of title or other real property interest or loss of possession that:
(1) Arises under the United States Constitution, Federal common law, Federal statute or treaty;
(2) Is in conflict with the right, or title or other real property interest claimed by an individual or entity (private, public, or governmental); and
(3) Either accrued on or before October 17, 1988, or involves lands held in trust or restricted fee for the tribe prior to October 17, 1988.
Legislative termination
means Federal legislation that specifically terminates or prohibits the government-to-government relationship with an Indian tribe or that otherwise specifically denies the tribe, or its members, access to or eligibility for government services.
Nearby Indian tribe
means an Indian tribe with tribal Indian lands located within a 25-mile radius of the location of the proposed gaming establishment, or, if the tribe has no trust lands, within a 25-mile radius of its government headquarters.
Newly acquired lands
means land that has been taken, or will be taken, in trust for the benefit of an Indian tribe
by the United States after October 17, 1988.
Office of Indian Gaming
means the office within the Office of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, within the Department of the Interior.
Regional Director
means the official in charge of the BIA Regional Office responsible for BIA activities within the geographical area where the proposed gaming establishment is to be located.
Reservation means:
(1) Land set aside by the United States by final ratified treaty, agreement, Executive Order, Proclamation, Secretarial Order or Federal statute for the tribe, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent;
(2) Land of Indian colonies and rancherias (including rancherias restored by judicial action) set aside by the United States for the permanent settlement of the Indians as its homeland;
(3) Land acquired by the United States to reorganize adult Indians pursuant to statute; or
(4) Land acquired by a tribe through a grant from a sovereign, including pueblo lands, which is subject to a Federal restriction against alienation.
Secretarial Determination
means a two-part determination that a gaming establishment on newly acquired lands:
(1) Would be in the best interest of the Indian tribe and its members; and
(2) Would not be detrimental to the surrounding community.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or authorized representative.
Significant historical connection
means the land is located within the boundaries of the tribe's last reservation under a ratified or unratified treaty, or a tribe can demonstrate by historical documentation the existence of the tribe's villages, burial grounds, occupancy or subsistence use in the vicinity of the land.
Surrounding community
means local governments and nearby Indian tribes located within a 25-mile radius of the site of the proposed gaming establishment. A local government or nearby Indian tribe located beyond the 25-mile radius may petition for consultation if it can establish that its governmental functions, infrastructure or services will be directly, immediately and significantly impacted by the proposed gaming establishment.

# Subpart B—Exceptions to Prohibitions on Gaming on Newly Acquired Lands
§ 292.3
How does a tribe seek an opinion on whether its newly acquired lands meet, or will meet, one of the exceptions in this subpart?
(a) If the newly acquired lands are already in trust and the request does not concern whether a specific area of land is a “reservation,” the tribe may submit a request for an opinion to either the National Indian Gaming Commission or the Office of Indian Gaming.
(b) If the tribe seeks to game on newly acquired lands that require a land-into-trust application or the request concerns whether a specific area of land is a “reservation,” the tribe must submit a request for an opinion to the Office of Indian Gaming.
§ 292.4
What criteria must newly acquired lands meet under the exceptions regarding tribes with and without a reservation?
For gaming to be allowed on newly acquired lands under the exceptions in 25 U.S.C. 2719(a) of IGRA, the land must meet the location requirements in either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section.
(a) If the tribe had a reservation on October 17, 1988, the lands must be located within or contiguous to the boundaries of the reservation.
(b) If the tribe had no reservation on October 17, 1988, the lands must be either:
(1) Located in Oklahoma and within the boundaries of the tribe's former reservation or contiguous to other land held in trust or restricted status for the tribe in Oklahoma; or
(2) Located in a State other than Oklahoma and within the tribe's last recognized reservation within the State or States within which the tribe is presently located, as evidenced by the tribe's governmental presence and tribal population.

# “Settlement of a Land Claim” Exception
§ 292.5
When can gaming occur on newly acquired lands under a settlement of a land claim?
This section contains criteria for meeting the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 2719(b)(1)(B)(i), known as the “settlement of a land claim” exception. Gaming may occur on newly acquired lands if the land at issue is either:
(a) Acquired under a settlement of a land claim that resolves or extinguishes with finality the tribe's land claim in whole or in part, thereby resulting in the alienation or loss of possession of some or all of the lands claimed by the tribe, in legislation enacted by Congress; or
(b) Acquired under a settlement of a land claim that:
(1) Is executed by the parties, which includes the United States, returns to the tribe all or part of the land claimed by the tribe, and resolves or extinguishes with finality the claims regarding the returned land; or
(2) Is not executed by the United States, but is entered as a final order by a court of competent jurisdiction or is an enforceable agreement that in either case predates October 17, 1988 and resolves or extinguishes with finality the land claim at issue.

# “Initial Reservation” Exception
§ 292.6
What must be demonstrated to meet the “initial reservation” exception?
This section contains criteria for meeting the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 2719(b)(1)(B)(ii), known as the “initial reservation” exception. Gaming may occur on newly acquired lands under this exception only when all of the following conditions in this section are met:
(a) The tribe has been acknowledged (federally recognized) through the administrative process under part 83 of this chapter.
(b) The tribe has no gaming facility on newly acquired lands under the restored land exception of these regulations.
(c) The land has been proclaimed to be a reservation under 25 U.S.C. 467 and is the first proclaimed reservation of the tribe following acknowledgment.
(d) If a tribe does not have a proclaimed reservation on the effective date of these regulations, to be proclaimed an initial reservation under this exception, the tribe must demonstrate the land is located within the State or States where the Indian tribe is now located, as evidenced by the tribe's governmental presence and tribal population, and within an area where the tribe has significant historical connections and one or more of the following modern connections to the land:
(1) The land is near where a significant number of tribal members reside; or
(2) The land is within a 25-mile radius of the tribe's headquarters or other tribal governmental facilities that have existed at that location for at least 2 years at the time of the application for land-into-trust; or
(3) The tribe can demonstrate other factors that establish the tribe's current connection to the land.

# “Restored Lands” Exception
§ 292.7
What must be demonstrated to meet the “restored lands” exception?
This section contains criteria for meeting the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 2719(b)(1)(B)(iii), known as the “restored lands” exception. Gaming may occur on newly acquired lands under this exception only when all of the following conditions in this section are met:
(a) The tribe at one time was federally recognized, as evidenced by its meeting the criteria in § 292.8;
(b) The tribe at some later time lost its government-to-government relationship by one of the means specified in § 292.9;
(c) At a time after the tribe lost its government-to-government relationship, the tribe was restored to Federal recognition by one of the means specified in § 292.10; and
(d) The newly acquired lands meet the criteria of “restored lands” in § 292.11.
§ 292.8
How does a tribe qualify as having been federally recognized?
For a tribe to qualify as having been at one time federally recognized for purposes of § 292.7, one of the following must be true:
(a) The United States at one time entered into treaty negotiations with the tribe;
(b) The Department determined that the tribe could organize under the Indian Reorganization Act or the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act;
(c) Congress enacted legislation specific to, or naming, the tribe indicating that a government-to-government relationship existed;
(d) The United States at one time acquired land for the tribe's benefit; or
(e) Some other evidence demonstrates the existence of a government-to-government relationship between the tribe and the United States.
§ 292.9
How does a tribe show that it lost its government-to-government relationship?
For a tribe to qualify as having lost its government-to-government relationship for purposes of § 292.7, it must show that its government-to-government relationship was terminated by one of the following means:
(a) Legislative termination;
(b) Consistent historical written documentation from the Federal Government effectively stating that it no longer recognized a government-to-government relationship with the tribe or its members or taking action to end the government-to-government relationship; or
(c) Congressional restoration legislation that recognizes the existence of the previous government-to-government relationship.
§ 292.10
How does a tribe qualify as having been restored to Federal recognition?
For a tribe to qualify as having been restored to Federal recognition for purposes of § 292.7, the tribe must show at least one of the following:
(a) Congressional enactment of legislation recognizing, acknowledging, affirming, reaffirming, or restoring the government-to-government relationship between the United States and the tribe (required for tribes terminated by Congressional action);
(b) Recognition through the administrative Federal Acknowledgment Process under § 83.8 of this chapter; or
(c) A Federal court determination in which the United States is a party or court-approved settlement agreement entered into by the United States.
§ 292.11
What are “restored lands”?
For newly acquired lands to qualify as ”restored lands” for purposes of § 292.7, the tribe acquiring the lands must meet the requirements of paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
(a) If the tribe was restored by a Congressional enactment of legislation recognizing, acknowledging, affirming, reaffirming, or restoring the government-to-government relationship between the United States and the tribe, the tribe must show that either:
(1) The legislation requires or authorizes the Secretary to take land into trust for the benefit of the tribe within a specific geographic area and the lands are within the specific geographic area; or
(2) If the legislation does not provide a specific geographic area for the restoration of lands, the tribe must meet the requirements of § 292.12.
(b) If the tribe is acknowledged under § 83.8 of this chapter, it must show that it:
(1) Meets the requirements of § 292.12; and
(2) Does not already have an initial reservation proclaimed after October 17, 1988.
(c) If the tribe was restored by a Federal court determination in which the United States is a party or by a court-approved settlement agreement entered into by the United States, it must meet the requirements of § 292.12.
§ 292.12
How does a tribe establish connections to newly acquired lands for the purposes of the “restored lands” exception?
To establish a connection to the newly acquired lands for purposes of § 292.11, the tribe must meet the criteria in this section.
(a) The newly acquired lands must be located within the State or States
where the tribe is now located, as evidenced by the tribe's governmental presence and tribal population, and the tribe must demonstrate one or more of the following modern connections to the land:
(1) The land is within reasonable commuting distance of the tribe's existing reservation;
(2) If the tribe has no reservation, the land is near where a significant number of tribal members reside;
(3) The land is within a 25-mile radius of the tribe's headquarters or other tribal governmental facilities that have existed at that location for at least 2 years at the time of the application for land-into-trust; or
(4) Other factors demonstrate the tribe's current connection to the land.
(b) The tribe must demonstrate a significant historical connection to the land.
(c) The tribe must demonstrate a temporal connection between the date of the acquisition of the land and the date of the tribe's restoration. To demonstrate this connection, the tribe must be able to show that either:
(1) The land is included in the tribe's first request for newly acquired lands since the tribe was restored to Federal recognition; or
(2) The tribe submitted an application to take the land into trust within 25 years after the tribe was restored to Federal recognition and the tribe is not gaming on other lands.

# Subpart C—Secretarial Determination and Governor's Concurrence
§ 292.13
When can a tribe conduct gaming activities on newly acquired lands that do not qualify under one of the exceptions in subpart B of this part?
A tribe may conduct gaming on newly acquired lands that do not meet the criteria in subpart B of this part only after all of the following occur:
(a) The tribe asks the Secretary in writing to make a Secretarial Determination that a gaming establishment on land subject to this part is in the best interest of the tribe and its members and not detrimental to the surrounding community;
(b) The Secretary consults with the tribe and appropriate State and local officials, including officials of other nearby Indian tribes;
(c) The Secretary makes a determination that a gaming establishment on newly acquired lands would be in the best interest of the tribe and its members and would not be detrimental to the surrounding community; and
(d) The Governor of the State in which the gaming establishment is located concurs in the Secretary's Determination (25 U.S.C. 2719(b)(1)(A)).
§ 292.14
Where must a tribe file an application for a Secretarial Determination?
A tribe must file its application for a Secretarial Determination with the Regional Director of the BIA Regional Office having responsibility over the land where the gaming establishment is to be located.
§ 292.15
May a tribe apply for a Secretarial Determination for lands not yet held in trust?
Yes. A tribe can apply for a Secretarial Determination under § 292.13 for land not yet held in trust at the same time that it applies under part 151 of this chapter to have the land taken into trust.

# Application Contents
§ 292.16
What must an application for a Secretarial Determination contain?
A tribe's application requesting a Secretarial Determination under § 292.13 must include the following information:
(a) The full name, address, and telephone number of the tribe submitting the application;
(b) A description of the location of the land, including a legal description supported by a survey or other document;
(c) Proof of identity of present ownership and title status of the land;
(d) Distance of the land from the tribe's reservation or trust lands, if any, and tribal government headquarters;
(e) Information required by § 292.17 to assist the Secretary in determining
whether the proposed gaming establishment will be in the best interest of the tribe and its members;
(f) Information required by § 292.18 to assist the Secretary in determining whether the proposed gaming establishment will not be detrimental to the surrounding community;
(g) The authorizing resolution from the tribe submitting the application;
(h) The tribe's gaming ordinance or resolution approved by the National Indian Gaming Commission in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 2710, if any;
(i) The tribe's organic documents, if any;
(j) The tribe's class III gaming compact with the State where the gaming establishment is to be located, if one has been negotiated;
(k) If the tribe has not negotiated a class III gaming compact with the State where the gaming establishment is to be located, the tribe's proposed scope of gaming, including the size of the proposed gaming establishment; and
(l) A copy of the existing or proposed management contract required to be approved by the National Indian Gaming Commission under 25 U.S.C. 2711 and part 533 of this title, if any.
§ 292.17
How must an application describe the benefits and impacts of the proposed gaming establishment to the tribe and its members?
To satisfy the requirements of § 292.16(e), an application must contain:
(a) Projections of class II and class III gaming income statements, balance sheets, fixed assets accounting, and cash flow statements for the gaming entity and the tribe;
(b) Projected tribal employment, job training, and career development;
(c) Projected benefits to the tribe and its members from tourism;
(d) Projected benefits to the tribe and its members from the proposed uses of the increased tribal income;
(e) Projected benefits to the relationship between the tribe and non-Indian communities;
(f) Possible adverse impacts on the tribe and its members and plans for addressing those impacts;
(g) Distance of the land from the location where the tribe maintains core governmental functions;
(h) Evidence that the tribe owns the land in fee or holds an option to acquire the land at the sole discretion of the tribe, or holds other contractual rights to cause the lands to be transferred from a third party to the tribe or directly to the United States;
(i) Evidence of significant historical connections, if any, to the land; and
(j) Any other information that may provide a basis for a Secretarial Determination that the gaming establishment would be in the best interest of the tribe and its members, including copies of any:
(1) Consulting agreements relating to the proposed gaming establishment;
(2) Financial and loan agreements relating to the proposed gaming establishment; and
(3) Other agreements relative to the purchase, acquisition, construction, or financing of the proposed gaming establishment, or the acquisition of the land where the gaming establishment will be located.
§ 292.18
What information must an application contain on detrimental impacts to the surrounding community?
To satisfy the requirements of § 292.16(f), an application must contain the following information on detrimental impacts of the proposed gaming establishment:
(a) Information regarding environmental impacts and plans for mitigating adverse impacts, including an Environmental Assessment (EA), an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), or other information required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA);
(b) Anticipated impacts on the social structure, infrastructure, services, housing, community character, and land use patterns of the surrounding community;
(c) Anticipated impacts on the economic development, income, and employment of the surrounding community;
(d) Anticipated costs of impacts to the surrounding community and identification of sources of revenue to mitigate them;
(e) Anticipated cost, if any, to the surrounding community of treatment
programs for compulsive gambling attributable to the proposed gaming establishment;
(f) If a nearby Indian tribe has a significant historical connection to the land, then the impact on that tribe's traditional cultural connection to the land; and
(g) Any other information that may provide a basis for a Secretarial Determination whether the proposed gaming establishment would or would not be detrimental to the surrounding community, including memoranda of understanding and inter-governmental agreements with affected local governments.

# Consultation
§ 292.19
How will the Regional Director conduct the consultation process?
(a) The Regional Director will send a letter that meets the requirements in § 292.20 and that solicits comments within a 60-day period from:
(1) Appropriate State and local officials; and
(2) Officials of nearby Indian tribes.
(b) Upon written request, the Regional Director may extend the 60-day comment period for an additional 30 days.
(c) After the close of the consultation period, the Regional Director must:
(1) Provide a copy of all comments received during the consultation process to the applicant tribe; and
(2) Allow the tribe to address or resolve any issues raised in the comments.
(d) The applicant tribe must submit written responses, if any, to the Regional Director within 60 days of receipt of the consultation comments.
(e) On written request from the applicant tribe, the Regional Director may extend the 60-day comment period in paragraph (d) of this section for an additional 30 days.
§ 292.20
What information must the consultation letter include?
(a) The consultation letter required by § 292.19(a) must:
(1) Describe or show the location of the proposed gaming establishment;
(2) Provide information on the proposed scope of gaming; and
(3) Include other information that may be relevant to a specific proposal, such as the size of the proposed gaming establishment, if known.
(b) The consultation letter must include a request to the recipients to submit comments, if any, on the following areas within 60 days of receiving the letter:
(1) Information regarding environmental impacts on the surrounding community and plans for mitigating adverse impacts;
(2) Anticipated impacts on the social structure, infrastructure, services, housing, community character, and land use patterns of the surrounding community;
(3) Anticipated impact on the economic development, income, and employment of the surrounding community;
(4) Anticipated costs of impacts to the surrounding community and identification of sources of revenue to mitigate them;
(5) Anticipated costs, if any, to the surrounding community of treatment programs for compulsive gambling attributable to the proposed gaming establishment; and
(6) Any other information that may assist the Secretary in determining whether the proposed gaming establishment would or would not be detrimental to the surrounding community.

# Evaluation and Concurrence
§ 292.21
How will the Secretary evaluate a proposed gaming establishment?
(a) The Secretary will consider all the information submitted under §§ 292.16-292.19 in evaluating whether the proposed gaming establishment is in the best interest of the tribe and its members and whether it would or would not be detrimental to the surrounding community.
(b) If the Secretary makes an unfavorable Secretarial Determination, the Secretary will inform the tribe that its application has been disapproved, and set forth the reasons for the disapproval.
(c) If the Secretary makes a favorable Secretarial Determination, the Secretary will proceed under § 292.22.
§ 292.22
How does the Secretary request the Governor's concurrence?
If the Secretary makes a favorable Secretarial Determination, the Secretary will send to the Governor of the State:
(a) A written notification of the Secretarial Determination and Findings of Fact supporting the determination;
(b) A copy of the entire application record; and
(c) A request for the Governor's concurrence in the Secretarial Determination.
§ 292.23
What happens if the Governor does not affirmatively concur with the Secretarial Determination?
(a) If the Governor provides a written non-concurrence with the Secretarial Determination:
(1) The applicant tribe may use the newly acquired lands only for non-gaming purposes; and
(2) If a notice of intent to take the land into trust has been issued, then the Secretary will withdraw that notice pending a revised application for a non-gaming purpose.
(b) If the Governor does not affirmatively concur in the Secretarial Determination within one year of the date of the request, the Secretary may, at the request of the applicant tribe or the Governor, grant an extension of up to 180 days.
(c) If no extension is granted or if the Governor does not respond during the extension period, the Secretarial Determination will no longer be valid.
§ 292.24
Can the public review the Secretarial Determination?
Subject to restrictions on disclosure required by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), and the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905), the Secretarial Determination and the supporting documents will be available for review at the local BIA agency or Regional Office having administrative jurisdiction over the land.

# Information Collection
§ 292.25
Do information collections in this part have Office of Management and Budget approval?
The information collection requirements in §§ 292.16, 292.17, and 292.18 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The information collection control number is 1076-0158. A Federal agency may not collect or sponsor and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control.

# Subpart D—Effect of Regulations
§ 292.26
What effect do these regulations have on pending applications, final agency decisions, and opinions already issued?
These regulations apply to all requests pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 2719, except:
(a) These regulations do not alter final agency decisions made pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 2719 before the date of enactment of these regulations.
(b) These regulations apply to final agency action taken after the effective date of these regulations except that these regulations shall not apply to applicable agency actions when, before the effective date of these regulations, the Department or the National Indian Gaming Commission (NIGC) issued a written opinion regarding the applicability of 25 U.S.C. 2719 for land to be used for a particular gaming establishment, provided that the Department or the NIGC retains full discretion to qualify, withdraw or modify such opinions.
Pt. 293

# PART 293—CLASS III TRIBAL-STATE GAMING COMPACTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions and Scope
Sec.
293.1
What is the purpose of this part?
293.2
How are key terms defined in this part?
293.3
What authority does the Secretary have to approve or disapprove compacts and amendments?
293.4
Are compacts and amendments subject to review and approval?
293.5
Are extensions to compacts or amendments subject to review and approval?

# Subpart B—Submission of Tribal-State Gaming Compacts
293.6
Who can submit a compact or amendment?
293.7
When should the Tribe or State submit a compact or amendment for review and approval?
293.8
What documents must be submitted with a compact or amendment?
293.9
Where should a compact or amendment or other requests under this part be submitted for review and approval?

# Subpart C—Secretarial Review of Tribal-State Gaming Compacts
293.10
How long will the Secretary take to review a compact or amendment?
293.11
When will the 45-day timeline begin?
293.12
What happens if the Secretary does not act on the compact or amendment within the 45-day review period?
293.13
Who can withdraw a compact or amendment after it has been received by the Secretary?
293.14
When does a compact or amendment take effect?
293.15
When may the Secretary disapprove a compact or amendment?

# Subpart D—Scope of Tribal-State Gaming Compacts
293.16
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the application of the Tribe's or the State's criminal and civil laws and regulations?
293.17
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the allocation of criminal and civil jurisdiction between the Tribe and the State?
293.18
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the State's costs for regulating gaming activities?
293.19
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the Tribe's taxation of gaming?
293.20
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the resolution of disputes for breach of the compact?
293.21
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing standards for the operation of gaming activity and maintenance of the gaming facility?
293.22
May a compact or amendment include provisions that are directly related to the operation of gaming activities?
293.23
What factors will be used to determine whether provisions in a compact or amendment are directly related to the operation of gaming activities?
293.24
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing rights of employees?
293.25
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing employee background investigations and licensing?
293.26
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing statewide remote wagering or internet gaming?
293.27
What factors will the Secretary analyze to determine if revenue sharing is lawful?
293.28
May a compact or extension include provisions that limit the duration of the compact?
293.29
May any other contract outside of a compact regulate Indian gaming?
293.30
What effect does this part have on pending requests, final agency decisions already issued, and future requests?
293.31
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 2710.

# Source:
89 FR 13256, Feb. 21, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions and Scope
§ 293.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part contains:
(a) Procedures that Indian Tribes and States must use when submitting Tribal-State gaming compacts and compact amendments to the Department of the Interior (Department); and
(b) Procedures and criteria that the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) will use for reviewing such Tribal-State gaming compacts or compact amendments.
§ 293.2
How are key terms defined in this part?
This part relies on but does not restate all defined terms set forth in the definitional section of IGRA.
(a)
Amendment
means:
(1) A change to a class III Tribal-State gaming compact other than an extension, or
(2) A change to secretarial procedures prescribed under 25 U.S.C. 2710(d)(7)(B)(vii) when such change is agreed upon by the Tribe and State.
(b)
Compact
or
Tribal-State Gaming Compact
means an intergovernmental agreement executed between Tribal and State governments under IGRA that establishes between the parties the terms and conditions for the operation and regulation of the Tribe's class III gaming activities.
(c)
Extension
means an intergovernmental agreement executed between Tribal and State governments under IGRA to change the duration of a compact or amendment.
(d)
Gaming activity
or
gaming activities
means the conduct of class III gaming involving the three required elements of chance, consideration, and prize or reward.
(e)
Gaming facility
means the physical building or structure situated on Indian lands where the gaming activity occurs.
(f)
Gaming spaces
means the areas within a gaming facility (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) that are directly related to and necessary for the conduct of class III gaming such as: the casino floor; vault; count room; surveillance, management, and information technology areas; class III gaming device and supplies storage areas; and other secured areas where the operation or management of class III gaming takes place.
(g)
IGRA
means the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-497) 102 Stat. 2467 dated October 17, 1988, (Codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721 (1988)) and any amendments.
(h)
Meaningful concession
means:
(1) Something of value to the Tribe;
(2) Directly related to gaming activity;
(3) Something that carries out the purposes of IGRA; and
(4) Not a subject over which a State is otherwise obligated to negotiate under IGRA.
(i)
Substantial economic benefit
means:
(1) A beneficial impact to the Tribe;
(2) Resulting from a meaningful concession;
(3) Made with a Tribe's economic circumstances in mind;
(4) Spans the life of the compact; and
(5) Demonstrated by an economic/market analysis or similar documentation submitted by the Tribe or the State.
(j)
Tribe
means Indian Tribe as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2703(5).
§ 293.3
What authority does the Secretary have to approve or disapprove compacts and amendments?
The Secretary has the authority to approve a compact or amendment “entered into” by a Tribe and a State under IGRA. See § 293.15 for the Secretary's authority to disapprove compacts or amendments.
§ 293.4
Are compacts and amendments subject to review and approval?
(a) Yes. All compacts and amendments, regardless of whether they are substantive or technical, must be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary.
(b) If an ancillary agreement or document:
(1) Modifies a term in a compact or an amendment, then it must be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary.
(2) Implements or clarifies a provision within a compact or an amendment and is not inconsistent with an approved compact or amendment, it does not constitute a compact or an amendment and need not be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary.
(3) Is expressly contemplated within an approved compact or amendment, such as internal controls or a memorandum of agreement between the Tribal and State regulators, then such agreement or document is not subject to review and approval so long as it is not inconsistent with the approved compact or amendment.
(4) Interprets language in a compact or an amendment concerning a Tribe's revenue sharing to the State, its agencies, or political subdivisions under § 293.27 or includes any of the topics identified in § 293.23, then it may constitute an amendment subject to review and approval by the Secretary.
(c) If a Tribe or a State (including its political subdivisions) is concerned that its agreement or other document may be considered a “compact” or “amendment,” either party may request in writing a determination from the Department if their agreement or other document is a compact or amendment and therefore must be approved and a notice published in the
Federal Register
prior to the agreement or other document becoming effective. The Department will issue a letter within 30 days of receipt of the written
request, providing notice of the Secretary's determination. If the agreement or other document is determined to be a compact or amendment, it must be resubmitted for Secretarial review and approval consistent with the requirements of subpart B of this part.
§ 293.5
Are extensions to compacts or amendments subject to review and approval?
No. Approval of an extension to a compact or amendment is not required if the extension does not include any changes to any of the other terms of the compact or amendment. However, the parties must submit the documents required by § 293.8(a) through (c). The extension becomes effective only upon publication in the
Federal Register
.

# Subpart B—Submission of Tribal-State Gaming Compacts
§ 293.6
Who can submit a compact or amendment?
Either party (Tribe or State) to a compact or amendment can submit the compact or amendment to the Secretary for review and approval.
§ 293.7
When should the Tribe or State submit a compact or amendment for review and approval?
The Tribe or State should submit the compact or amendment after it has been duly executed by the Tribe and the State in accordance with applicable Tribal and State law or is otherwise binding on the parties.
§ 293.8
What documents must be submitted with a compact or amendment?
Documentation submitted with a compact or amendment must include:
(a) At least one original compact or amendment executed by both the Tribe and the State;
(b) A Tribal resolution or other document, including the date and place of adoption and the result of any vote taken, that certifies that the Tribe has approved the compact or amendment in accordance with applicable Tribal law and IGRA;
(c) Certification from the Governor or other representative of the State that they are authorized to enter into the compact or amendment in accordance with applicable State law;
(d) Any agreement between a Tribe and a State, its agencies, or its political subdivisions required by a compact or amendment if the agreement:
(1) Requires the Tribe to make payments to the State, its agencies, or its political subdivisions; or
(2) Restricts or regulates a Tribe's use and enjoyment of its Indian lands, and any other ancillary agreements, documents, ordinances, or laws required by the compact or amendment that the Tribe determines are relevant to the Secretary's review; and
(e) Any other documentation requested by the Secretary that is necessary to determine whether to approve or disapprove the compact or amendment. If a compact includes revenue sharing, a market analysis or similar documentation as required by § 293.27.
§ 293.9
Where should a compact or amendment or other requests under this part be submitted for review and approval?
Submit compacts, amendments, and all other requests under this part to the Director, Office of Indian Gaming, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street NW, Mail Stop 3543, Washington, DC 20240. If this address changes, a document with the new address will be sent for publication in the
Federal Register
within five business days. Compacts and amendments may also be submitted electronically to
IndianGaming@bia.gov
as long as the original copy is submitted to the address listed in this section.

# Subpart C—Secretarial Review of Tribal-State Gaming Compacts
§ 293.10
How long will the Secretary take to review a compact or amendment?
(a) The Secretary must approve or disapprove a compact or amendment within 45 calendar days after receiving the compact or amendment.
(b) The Secretary will notify the Tribe and the State in writing of the decision to approve or disapprove a compact or amendment.
§ 293.11
When will the 45-day timeline begin?
The 45-day timeline will begin when a compact or amendment is received either electronically or hard copy submission and date stamped by the Office of Indian Gaming. The Department will provide an email acknowledgement to the Tribe and the State of receipt and provide the date on which the Secretary's 45-day review period will expire for electronically submitted compacts or amendments.
§ 293.12
What happens if the Secretary does not act on the compact or amendment within the 45-day review period?
If the Secretary does not take action to approve or disapprove a compact or amendment within the 45-day review period, the compact or amendment is approved by operation of law, but only to the extent the compact or amendment is consistent with the provisions of IGRA. The Secretary will issue a letter informing the parties that the compact or amendment has been approved by operation of law after the 45th day and before the 90th day. The Secretary's letter may include guidance to the parties reflecting the Department's interpretation of IGRA. The compact or amendment that is approved by operation of law becomes effective only upon publication in the
Federal Register
.
§ 293.13
Who can withdraw a compact or amendment after it has been received by the Secretary?
To withdraw a compact or amendment after it has been received by the Secretary, the Tribe and the State must both submit a written request to the Director, Office of Indian Gaming at the address listed in § 293.9.
§ 293.14
When does a compact or amendment take effect?
(a) A compact or amendment, that is affirmatively approved or approved by operation of law, takes effect on the date that notice of its approval is published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) The notice of affirmative approval or approval by operation of law must be published in the
Federal Register
within 90 days from the date the compact or amendment is received by the Office of Indian Gaming.
§ 293.15
When may the Secretary disapprove a compact or amendment?
The Secretary may disapprove a compact or amendment only if:
(a) It violates:
(1) Any provision of IGRA;
(2) Any other provision of Federal law that does not relate to jurisdiction over gaming on Indian lands; or
(3) The trust obligations of the United States to Indians; or
(b) The documents required in § 293.8 are not submitted and the parties have been informed in writing of the missing documents and are provided with an opportunity to supply those documents.

# Subpart D—Scope of Tribal-State Gaming Compacts
§ 293.16
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the application of the Tribe's or the State's criminal and civil laws and regulations?
Yes. A compact or amendment may include provisions addressing the application of the criminal and civil laws and regulations of the Tribe or the State that are directly related to and necessary for the licensing and regulation of the gaming activity. At the request of the Secretary pursuant to § 293.8(e), the parties must show that these laws and regulations are both directly related to and necessary for the licensing and regulation of the gaming activity.
§ 293.17
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the allocation of criminal and civil jurisdiction between the Tribe and the State?
Yes. A compact or amendment may include provisions allocating criminal and civil jurisdiction between the Tribe and the State necessary for the enforcement of the laws and regulations described in § 293.16.
§ 293.18
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the State's costs for regulating gaming activities?
Yes. If the compact or amendment includes a negotiated allocation of jurisdiction to the State for the regulation of the gaming activity, the compact or amendment may include provisions to defray the State's actual and reasonable costs for regulating the specific Tribe's gaming activity. If the compact does not include requirements for the State to show actual and reasonable annual expenses for regulating the specific Tribe's gaming activity over the life of the compact, the lack of such a requirement may be considered evidence of a violation of IGRA.
§ 293.19
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the Tribe's taxation of gaming?
Yes. A compact or amendment may include provisions addressing the Tribe's taxation of tribally licensed gaming activity in amounts comparable to the State's taxation of State licensed gaming activities. A compact may not include provisions addressing the Tribe's taxation of other activities that may occur within or near the Tribe's gaming facility. The inclusion of provisions addressing the Tribe's taxation of other activities may be considered evidence of a violation of IGRA.
§ 293.20
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing the resolution of disputes for breach of the compact?
Yes. A compact or amendment may include provisions addressing how the parties will resolve a breach of the compact or other disputes arising from the compact including mutual limited waivers of sovereign immunity. If a Tribe is concerned that an agreement or other document including, but not limited to, any dispute resolution, settlement agreement, or arbitration decision, constitutes a compact or amendment, or if the Tribe is concerned that the agreement or other document interprets the Tribe's compact or amendment to govern matters that are not directly related to the operation of gaming activities, the Tribe may submit the document to the Department as set forth in § 293.4. The inclusion of provisions addressing dispute resolution outside of Federal court in a manner that seeks to avoid the Secretary's review may be considered evidence of a violation of IGRA.
§ 293.21
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing standards for the operation of gaming activity and maintenance of the gaming facility?
Yes. A compact or amendment may include provisions addressing the Tribe's standards for the operation of the gaming activity within gaming spaces, as well as the Tribe's standards for the maintenance of the gaming facility, including licensing. If a compact or amendment mandates that the Tribe adopt standards equivalent or comparable to the standards set forth in a State law or regulation, the parties must show that these mandated Tribal standards are both directly related to and necessary for the licensing and regulation of the gaming activity.
§ 293.22
May a compact or amendment include provisions that are directly related to the operation of gaming activities?
Yes. A compact or amendment may include provisions that are directly related to the operation of gaming activities; such provisions may address activities occurring off of Indian lands.
§ 293.23
What factors will be used to determine whether provisions in a compact or amendment are directly related to the operation of gaming activities?
(a) The parties must show that these provisions described in § 293.22 are directly connected to the Tribe's conduct of class III gaming activities. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(1) Minimum age for patrons to participate in gaming;
(2) Transportation of gaming devices and equipment; or
(3) Exclusion of patrons.
(b) Mutually beneficial proximity, or even co-management alone is insufficient to establish a “direct connection” between the Tribe's class III
gaming and adjacent business or amenities. Additionally, Tribal infrastructure projects or economic development activities that are funded by gaming revenue and may service or otherwise provide a benefit to the gaming activity are not directly related to the conduct of gaming without other evidence of a direct connection.
(c) Provisions which are not directly related to the operation of gaming activities include, but are not limited to:
(1) Expressly limiting third party Tribes' rights to conduct gaming activities under IGRA;
(2) Relating to treaty rights;
(3) Relating to tobacco sales;
(4) Requiring compliance with or adoption of State environmental regulation of projects or activities that are not directly related to the Tribe's operation of gaming activities and maintenance of the gaming facility;
(5) Requiring memorandum of understanding, intergovernmental agreements, or similar agreements with local governments;
(6) Requiring enforcement of State court orders garnishing employee wages or patron winnings;
(7) Granting State court jurisdiction over tort claims arising from the Tribe's conduct of class III gaming activities;
(8) Regulating non-gaming conduct not within gaming spaces or non-gaming Tribal economic activities, including activities in or adjacent to the gaming facility, including, but not limited to, restaurants, nightclubs, hotels, event centers, water parks, gas stations, and convenience stores; or
(9) Relating to the conduct of Tribal class I or class II gaming activities.
(d) The inclusion of provisions for which the parties cannot show a direct connection to the Tribe's conduct of class III gaming activities may be considered evidence of a violation of IGRA.
§ 293.24
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing rights of employees?
Yes. Notwithstanding § 293.23(c)(8), a compact or amendment may include provisions or procedures addressing the organizational and representational rights of employees, including service or hospitality workers, where such provisions or procedures are “directly related” to the operation of gaming activities as articulated by the Ninth Circuit in
Chicken Ranch Rancheria of Me-Wuk Indians
v.
California,
42 F.4th 1024, 1035-1040
n.2 (citing
Coyote Valley Band of Pomo Indians
v.
California (In re Indian Gaming Related Cases Chemehuevi Indian Tribe),
331 F.3d 1094, 1116 (9th Cir. 2003)).
§ 293.25
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing employee background investigations and licensing?
Yes. Consistent with 25 CFR 558.1, a compact or amendment may include provisions addressing the Tribe's standards and requirements for employee background investigations and licensing. If the compact or amendment includes a negotiated allocation to the State for concurring in or processing employee background investigations or licenses, the parties must show that the licensing process is as stringent and timely as the background investigation and licensing requirements of 25 CFR parts 556 and 558. The compact may also include provisions for the reasonable reimbursement of background investigation and licensing fees.
§ 293.26
May a compact or amendment include provisions addressing statewide remote wagering or internet gaming?
Yes. A compact or amendment consistent with §§ 293.16 and 293.22 may include provisions addressing statewide remote wagering or internet gaming that is directly related to the operation of gaming activity on Indian lands. A compact or compact amendment may not, however, alter otherwise applicable Federal law. A compact may specifically include, for regulatory purposes, provisions allocating State and Tribal jurisdiction within the State over remote wagering or internet gaming originating outside Indian lands where:
(a) State law and the compact or amendment deem the gaming to take place, for the purposes of State and Tribal law, on the Tribe's Indian lands where the server accepting the wagers is located;
(b) The Tribe regulates the gaming; and
(c) The player initiating the wager is not located on another Tribe's Indian lands within the State, unless that Tribe has lawfully consented.
§ 293.27
What factors will the Secretary analyze to determine if revenue sharing is lawful?
(a) A compact or amendment may include provisions that address revenue sharing in exchange for a State's meaningful concessions resulting in a substantial economic benefit for the Tribe.
(b) The Department reviews revenue sharing provisions with great scrutiny beginning with the presumption that a Tribe's payment to a State or local government for anything beyond § 293.18 regulatory fee is a prohibited “tax, fee, charge, or other assessment.” In order for the Department to approve revenue sharing the parties must show through documentation, such as a market study or other similar evidence, that:
(1) The Tribe has requested and the State has offered specific meaningful concessions the State was otherwise not required to negotiate;
(2) The value of the specific meaningful concessions offered by the State provides substantial economic benefits to the Tribe in a manner justifying the revenue sharing required by the compact; and
(3) The Tribe is the primary beneficiary of the gaming measured by projected revenue to the Tribe against projected revenue shared with the State.
(c) The inclusion of revenue sharing provisions to the State that is not justified by meaningful concessions of substantial economic benefit to the Tribe may be considered evidence of a violation of IGRA.
§ 293.28
May a compact or extension include provisions that limit the duration of the compact?
Yes. However, IGRA anticipates compacts are long-term agreements between a Tribe and a State. These agreements reflect carefully negotiated compromises between sovereigns. A refusal to negotiate a long-term compact, or a short-term extension of at least one year to allow for negotiations to continue, may be considered evidence of a violation of IGRA.
§ 293.29
May any other contract outside of a compact regulate Indian gaming?
No. Subject to §§ 293.4(b) and 293.8(d), any contract or other agreement between a Tribe and a State, its agencies, or its political subdivisions that seeks to regulate a Tribe's right to conduct gaming—as limited by IGRA—is a gaming compact that must comply with IGRA and be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary consistent with § 293.8. A Tribe may submit any other agreement between the Tribe and the State, its agencies, or its political subdivisions for a determination if the agreement is a compact or amendment under § 293.4(c). This includes agreements mandated or required by a compact or amendment, which contain provisions for the payment from a Tribe's gaming revenue or restricts or regulates a Tribe's use and enjoyment of its Indian lands, including a Tribe's conduct of gaming.
§ 293.30
What effect does this part have on pending requests, final agency decisions already issued, and future requests?
(a) Compacts and amendments pending on March 22, 2024, will continue to be processed under this part, promulgated on December 5, 2008, and revised June 4, 2020, unless the Tribe or the State requests in writing to proceed under this part. Upon receipt of such a request, the Secretary shall process the pending compact or amendment under this part.
(b) This part does not alter final agency decisions made pursuant to this part before March 22, 2024.
(c) All compacts and amendments submitted after March 22, 2024 will be processed under this part.
§ 293.31
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), and assigned control number 1076-0172. A Federal agency may not
conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
PARTS 294-299 [RESERVED]
SUBCHAPTER O—MISCELLANEOUS [RESERVED]
Ch. I, App.

# Appendix to Chapter I—Extension of the Trust or Restricted Status of Certain Indian Lands
This appendix contains citations of Executive orders and acts of Congress continuing the trust or restricted period of Indian land, which would have expired otherwise, within the several Indian reservations in the States named. The asterisk to the left of the name of a reservation indicates that the reservation is subject to the benefits of the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 461-479), as amended, and as therein provided the trust or restricted period of the land is extended indefinitely. Where the name of a reservation is not preceded by an asterisk, such reservation is not subject to the Reorganization Act and is not subject to the benefits of such indefinite trust or restricted period extension, but such reservation is dependent upon acts of Congress or Executive orders for extension of the trust or restricted period of the land.
For the purpose of insuring the continuation of the trust or restricted status of Indian allotments within Indian reservations not subject to the Reorganization Act, Congress by the act of June 15, 1935 (49 Stat. 378) reimposed such restrictions as may have been expired between the dates of June 18, 1934, and December 31, 1936.
State
Reservation
E. O. No.
Date
Period of
extension
Arizona
*Papago
2066
Oct. 27, 1914
10 years.
Do
......do
4464
June 28, 1926
Do.
California
Agua Caliente
3446
Apr. 30, 1921
Do.
Do
......do
5580
Mar. 16, 1931
Do.
Do
Cabazon and Twenty-nine Palms
3302
July 7, 1920
5 years.
Do
......do
4159
Feb. 19, 1925
10 years.
Do
*Capitan Grande
3048
Feb. 27, 1919
5 years.
Do
......do
Act of Feb. 8, 1927 (44 Stat. 1061)
10 years.
Do
Hoopa Valley (Klamath River)
2943
Aug. 23, 1918
1 year.
Do
......do
Sept. 23, 1919
Do.
Do
......do
3304
July 10, 1920
10 years.
Do
......do
3980
Mar. 26, 1924
15 years.
Do
......do
5416
Aug. 4, 1930
10 years.
Mission Bands:
Do
Augustine
2795
Jan. 26, 1918
Do.
Do
Campo
2795
......do
Do.
Do
*Cuyapipe
2795
......do
Do.
Do
Inaja
2795
......do
Do.
Do
*Laguna
2795
......do
Do.
Do
*La Posta
2795
......do
Do.
Do
*Manzanita
2795
......do
Do.
Do
Mesa Grande
2795
......do
Do.
Do
Pala
2795
......do
Do.
Do
Ramona
2795
......do
Do.
Do
Santa Ysabel
2795
......do
Do.
Do
Sycuan
2795
......do
Do.
Do
......do
3383
Jan. 7, 1921
25 years.
Do
San Manuel
2795
Jan. 26, 1918
10 years.
Do
Temecula
2795
............do
Do.
Do
All of above Mission Bands
4765
Nov. 23, 1927
Do.
Do
Morongo
6341
Oct. 17, 1933
Do.
Do
Pala
3383
Jan. 7, 1921
25 years.
Do
......do
Act of Feb. 11, 1936 (49 Stat. 1106)
10 years.
Do
Potrero and Rincon
2684
Aug. 16, 1917
Do.
Do
......do
4687
July 11, 1927
Do.
Do
*Round Valley
3223
Feb. 5, 1920
3 years.
Do
......do
3805
Mar. 5, 1923
10 years.
Do
......do
3995
Apr. 19, 1924
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Do
Temecula
3699
June 27, 1922
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
Torres-Martinez
7009
Apr. 10, 1935
Do.
Idaho
Nez Perce
3250
Mar. 24, 1920
Do.
Idaho
Nez Perce
4694
July 22, 1927
10 years.
Do
......do
5305
Mar. 18, 1930
Do.
Kansas and Nebraska
*Iowa
2966
Sept. 23, 1918
Do.
Do
......do
5023
Jan. 10, 1929
Do.
Do
*Sac and Fox
2607
May 4, 1917
Do.
Do
......do
4571
Jan. 24, 1927
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
Kickapoo
3301
July 3, 1920
1 year.
Do
......do
3447
May 2, 1921
10 years.
Do
......do
5415
Aug. 4, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5626
May 18, 1931
Do.
Do
*Potawatomi
2747
Nov. 2, 1917
Do.
Do
......do
2927
July 30, 1918
Do.
Do
......do
3312
July 21, 1920
Do.
Do
......do
4688
July 11, 1927
Do.
Do
......do
4858
Apr. 16, 1928
Do.
Do
......do
5299
Mar. 10, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5356
May 28, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5556
Feb. 11, 1931
Do.
Minnesota
*Fond du Lac
3445
Apr. 30, 1921
Do.
Do
......do
5575
Mar. 12, 1931
Do.
Do
*Grand Portage
3613
Jan. 12, 1922
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
*Winnibigoshish
3614
Jan. 12, 1922
Do.
Do
......do
5466
Oct. 22, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
*Deer Creek
4154
Feb. 10, 1925
Do.
Do
*Bois Fort
4233
May 26, 1925
Do.
Do
*Leech Lake, Cass Lake, and White Oak Point
4298
Aug. 29, 1925
Do.
Do
......do
5466
Oct. 22, 1930
Do.
Do
*White Earth
4642
May 5, 1927
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Do
*Red Lake
5383
June 26, 1930
Do.
Montana
Crow
5301
Mar. 12, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
7001
Apr. 5, 1935
Do.
Do
......do
Act of April 1940 (54 Stat. 106)
To May 23, 1940.
Do
*Flathead
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Nebraska
*Omaha
July 3, 1909
Do.
Do
......do
3111
July 10, 1919
Do.
Do
......do
4145
Jan. 28, 1925
Do.
Do
......do
4548
Dec. 4, 1926
Do.
Do
......do
5148
July 3, 1929
Do.
Do
......do
5253
Dec. 31, 1929
Do.
Do
*Ponca
2374
Apr. 29, 1916
Do.
Do
......do
4407
Mar. 30, 1926
Do.
Do
*Santee
Dec. 12, 1910
Do.
Do
......do
3348
Nov. 5, 1920
Do.
Do
......do
3722
Aug. 12, 1922
Do.
Do
*Santee Sarah Jones allotment
4075
Sept. 17, 1924
Do.
Do
*Santee
5474
Oct. 31, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Do
*Winnebago
2965
Sept. 20, 1918
Do.
Do
......do
4548
Dec. 4, 1926
Do.
Do
......do
4979
Oct. 16, 1928
Do.
Do
......do
4994
Nov. 14, 1928
Do.
Do
*Sac and Fox, William Banks allotment
3878
July 27, 1923
1 year.
Nevada
*Walker River
5730
Oct. 8, 1931
10 years.
North Dakota
Devils Lake
2804
Feb. 11, 1918
Do.
Do
......do
3853
May 23, 1923
Do.
Do
......do
4775
Nov. 30, 1927
Do.
Do
......do
5303
Mar. 12, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Do
*Fort Berthold
4293
Aug. 25, 1925
Do.
Do
*Standing Rock
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Oklahoma
Absentee Shawnee and Citizen Potawatomi
2494
Nov. 24, 1916
Do.
Do
......do
2512
Jan. 15, 1917
Do.
Do
......do
4557
Dec. 23, 1926
Do.
Do
Cheyenne and Arapaho
2580
Apr. 4, 1917
Do.
Do
......do
4587
Feb. 17, 1927
Do.
Do
Eastern Shawnee
2317
Feb. 15, 1916
Do.
Do
......do
4384
Feb. 20, 1926
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
Mexican Kickapoo
3047
Feb. 27, 1919
5 years.
Do
......do
4029
June 19, 1924
10 years.
Do
......do
Act of Feb. 17, 1933 (47 Stat. 819)
Do.
Do
Modoc
2453
Sept. 14, 1916
Do.
Do
......do
4470
July 1, 1926
Do.
Do
Ottawa, Seneca and Wyandotte
2591
Apr. 11, 1917
Do.
Do
......do
4588
Feb. 17, 1927
Do.
Do
Pawnee
2816
Mar. 2, 1918
Do.
Do
......do
4898
May 29, 1928
Do.
Do
Ponca
3327
Sept. 19, 1920
1 year.
Do
......do
3363
Dec. 1, 1920
25 years.
Do
......do
5539
Jan. 23, 1931
10 years.
Do
Sac and Fox, and Iowa
Mar. 27, 1896
Do.
Do
......do
July 23, 1906
Do.
Do
......do
Aug. 28, 1906
Do.
Do
......do
2432
Aug. 1, 1916
Do.
Do
......do
4435
Apr. 29, 1926
Do.
Do
Tonkawa
2866
May 25, 1918
Do.
Do
Tonkawa (Oakland)
4816
Feb. 25, 1928
Do.
Do
Kaw
Act of March 1923 (42 Stat. 1561)
25 years.
Do
......do
Act of May 27, 1924 (43 Stat. 176)
20 years.
Do
Otoe and Missouri
4281
Aug. 11, 1925
10 years.
Do
......do
5728
Sept. 29, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
Kiowa, Comanche, Apache, and Wichita
4398
Mar. 18, 1926
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Do
......do
5955
Nov. 30, 1932 (Gertrude Lamb)
Do.
Do
Seneca
5306
Mar. 18, 1930
Do.
Do
Quapaw
Act of Mar. 3, 1921 (41 Stat. 1248) as amended Nov. 18, 1921 (42 Stat. 1570)
25 years.
Do
......do
As supplemented or amended by the act of July 27, 1939 (53 Stat. 1127)
Do.
Oregon
*Grande Ronde
2376
Apr. 29, 1916
10 years.
Do
......do
4408
Mar. 30, 1926
Do.
Do
Siletz
3110
July 10, 1919
Do.
Do
Siletz (cont.)
5087
Apr. 1, 1929
Do.
Do
*Warm Springs
3586
Dec. 7, 1921
Do.
Do
......do
5734
Oct. 17, 1931
Do.
Do
Umatilla
4024
June 10, 1924
Do.
Do
......do
5516
Dec. 17, 1930
Do.
Do
Klamath
6961
Feb. 4, 1935
Do.
Do
......do
Act of Dec. 24, 1942 (56 Stat. 1081)
25 years.
South Dakota
Crow Creek
3362
Nov. 30, 1920
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
10 years.
Do
......do
6968
Feb. 9, 1935
Do.
Do
*Rosebud
4417
Apr. 14, 1926
Do.
Do
......do
5028
Jan. 16, 1929
Do.
Do
......do
5302
Mar. 12, 1930
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
Sisseton and Wahpeton
1916
Apr. 16, 1914
Do.
Do
......do
3994
Apr. 19, 1924
15 years.
Do
*Yankton Sioux
2363
Apr. 20, 1916
10 years.
Do
......do
4406
Mar. 30, 1926
Do.
South Dakota
Crow Creek
5173
Aug. 9, 1929
10 years.
Do
*Lower Brule
4981
Oct. 20, 1923
Do.
Do
*Pine Ridge
5557
Feb. 13, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Do
*Cheyenne River
5546
Jan. 31, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Utah
*Uncompahgre, Uintah and White River Bands of Utes
5357
May 29, 1930
Do.
Washington
Chief Moses Band
2109
Dec. 23, 1914
Do.
Do
......do
4382
Feb. 10, 1926
10 years from Mar. 8, 1926.
Do
Colville
4157
Feb. 17, 1925
10 years.
Do
......do
6962
Feb. 4, 1935
Do.
Do
*Quinaielt
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
Spokane
6939
Jan. 7, 1935
10 years.
Do
Yakima
3630
Feb. 3, 1922
Do.
Do
......do
4168
Mar. 11, 1925
Do.
Do
......do
5746
Nov. 10, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
7036
May 8, 1935
Do.
Do
......do
Act of May 27, 1937 (50 Stat. 210)
To July 9, 1942.
Wisconsin
*Oneida
2623
May 19, 1917
1 year.
Do
......do
2856
May 4, 1918
9 years.
Do
......do
4600
Mar. 1, 1927
10 years.
Wyoming
Wind River
5768
Dec. 30, 1931
Do.
Do
......do
5953
Nov. 23, 1932
Do.
Pursuant to act of June 21, 1906 (34 Stat. 325) extending trust or other period of restriction contained in patents issued to Indians for land on the public domain, the following orders have been promulgated:
E. O. No.
Date
Period of extension
2133
Feb. 3, 1915
1 year.
2326
Feb. 23, 1916
Do.
2505
Jan. 3, 1917
Do.
2778
Dec. 31, 1917
Do.
3024
Jan. 11, 1919
Do.
3204
Dec. 23, 1919
Do.
3365
Dec. 7, 1920
25 years.
No further separate orders covering extension of trust periods on public domain allotments were issued subsequent to Executive Order 3365 of December 7, 1920. The trust or other periods of restriction contained in patents issued to Indians for land on the public domain have thereafter been extended by the terms of the general Executive orders.
General Orders
E. O. No.
Date
Period of extension
6498
Dec. 15, 1933
10 years.
6926
Dec. 20, 1934 (Oklahoma only)
Do.
7206
Oct. 14, 1935 (Oklahoma only)
Do.
7464
Sept. 30, 1936
25 years.
7716
Sept. 29, 1937
Do.
7984
Oct. 7, 1938
25 years.
8276
Oct. 28, 1939
Do.
8580
Oct. 29, 1940
Do.
8965
Dec. 10, 1941
Do.
9272
Nov. 17, 1942
Do.
9398
Nov. 25, 1943
Do.
9500
Nov. 14, 1944
Do.
9659
Nov. 21, 1945
Do.
9811
Dec. 17, 1946
Do.
9920
Jan. 8, 1948, effective Jan. 1, 1948
Do.
10027
Jan. 6, 1949
Do.
10091
Dec. 11, 1949
Do.
10191
Dec. 13, 1950
Do.
Beginning with Executive Order 6498, issued December 15, 1933, regardless of the location of the allotments, all trust or restrictive periods on allotments expiring on a given date have been extended by one general Executive order issued annually.
General Orders
Order
Date
Per. of exten.
FR citation
Sec. Int.
Dec. 29, 1951
1 year
17 FR 799.
Do
Dec. 29, 1952
...do
18 FR 106.
Do
Dec. 28, 1953
...do
18 FR 8897.
Do
Dec. 17, 1954
...do
19 FR 8658.
Do
Nov. 17, 1955
...do
20 FR 8519.
Do
Dec. 6, 1956
...do
21 FR 9644.
Do
Jan. 7, 1958
...do
23 FR 112.
Do
Jan. 7, 1959
5 yrs
24 FR 127.
Do
Dec. 8, 1959
...do
24 FR 9847.
Do
Dec. 24, 1960
...do
25 FR 13688.
Do
Dec. 28, 1961
...do
26 FR 12569.
Sec. Int.
Jan. 4, 1963
...do
28 FR 122.
Do
Oct. 31, 1963
...do
28 FR 11630.
Do
Oct. 9, 1968
...do
33 FR 15067.
Dep. Ass
Dec. 14, 1973
...do
38 FR 33463.
Sec. Int
Dec. 14, 1978
...do
43 FR 58369.
Do
July 27, 1983
...do
48 FR 34026
Sec. Int
Aug. 15, 1988
5 yrs.
53 FR 30674.

# Note:
Executive orders and orders of the Secretary of the Interior (17 FR 799, Jan. 26, 1952; 18 FR 106, Jan. 6, 1953; 18 FR 8897, Dec. 31, 1953; 19 FR 8658, Dec. 17, 1954; 20 FR 8519, Nov. 11, 1955; 21 FR 9644, Dec. 6, 1956; 23 FR 112, Jan. 7, 1958; 24 FR 127, Jan. 7, 1959; 24 FR 9847, Dec. 8, 1959; 25 FR 13688, Dec. 24, 1960; 26 FR 12569, Dec. 28, 1961; 28 FR 122, Jan. 4, 1963; 28 FR 11630, Oct. 31, 1963; 33 FR 15067, Oct. 9,
1968; 38 FR 34463, Dec. 14, 1973; 43 FR 58369, Dec. 14, 1978; 48 FR 34026, July 27, 1983); 53 FR 30674, Aug. 15, 1988, extended the trust periods on Indian lands expiring during the calendar years of 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952, 1953, 1954, 1955, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964-1968, 1969-1973, 1974-1978, 1979-1983, 1984-1988, 1989-1993 respectively.

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
25 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
25 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
11.100 Revised
646
11.104 (a) introductory text revised
646
30 Revised; eff. 4-27-20
17020
63 Authority citation revised
37564
63.3 Amended; interim
37564
63.3 Regulation at 85 FR 37564 confirmed
65706
63.12 Revised; interim
37564
63.12 Regulation at 85 FR 37564 confirmed
65706
63.19 (a) revised; (c) added; interim
37564
63.19 Regulation at 85 FR 37564 confirmed
65706
140.3 Amended
9369
141.50 Amended
9369
170.443 (b) revised; eff. 4-29-20
17499
211.55 (a) amended
9369
213.37 Amended
9369
225.37 (a) amended
9369
226.42 Amended
9369
226.43 (e), (f), (g), and section amended
9369
227.24 Amended
9369
243.8 (a) introductory text amended
9369
248.1 Amended
73193
248.2 Amended
73193
248.3 Amended
73193
248.4 Amended
73193
248.6 Amended
73193
248.8 Amended
73193
248.9 Amended
73193
248.10 Amended
73193
249.6 (b) amended
9369
293.9 Revised
37748
2021
25 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
140.3 Amended
7347
141.50 Amended
7347
211.55 (a) amended
7347
213.37 Amended
7348
225.37 (a) amended
7348
226.42 Amended
7348
226.43 Amended
7348
227.24 Amended
7348
243.8 (a) introductory text amended
7348
249.6 (b) amended
7348
2022
25 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
140.3 Section amended
13156
141.50 Amended
13156
211.55 (a) amended
13156
213.37 Amended
13156
225.37 (a) amended
13156
226.42 Amended
13156
226.43 (e), (f), and (g) amended
13156
227.24 Amended
13156
243.8 (a) introductory text amended
13156
249.6 (b) amended
13156
2023
25 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
2 Revised
53779
15.202 Correction: (b) introductory text amended
39769
15.404 Correction: (c) amended
39769
15.405 Correction: (a) introductory text and (3) amended
39769
81 Policy statement
9188
140 Authority citation revised
13021
140.3 Section amended; authority citation removed
13021
141.50 Amended
13021
151 Revised
86249
211.55 (a) amended
13022
213.37 Amended
13022
225.37 (a) amended
13022
226.42 Amended
13022
226.43 (e), (f), and (g) amended
13022
227.24 Amended
13022
243.8 (a) introductory text amended
13022
249.6 (b) amended
13022
2024
25 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
140.3 Amended
18362
141.50 Amended
18363
211.55 (a) amended
18363
213.37 Amended
18363
225.37 (a) amended
18363
226.42 Amended
18363
226.43 (e), (f), and (g) amended
18363
227.24 Amended
18363
243.8 (a) introductory text amended
18363
249.6 (b) amended
18363
273.182 (a) and (b) amended
18363
293 Revised
13256
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
25 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
83 Authority citation revised
3643
83 Authority citation Regulation at 90 FR 3643 eff. date delayed
9515
83.1 Amended
3643
83.1 Regulation at 90 FR 3643 eff. date delayed
9515
83.4 (d) revised
3643
83.4 Regulation at 90 FR 3643 eff. date delayed
9515
83.9 Revised
3643
83.9 Regulation at 90 FR 3643 eff. date delayed
9515
83.47—83.62 (Subpart D) Added
3643
83.47—83.62 (Subpart D) Regulation at 90 FR 3643 eff. date delayed
9515
○
